

601 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 4945 words

HEADLINE: Treasury's Got Him on Speed Dial

BYLINE: By DEVIN LEONARD

DATELINE: Newport Beach, Calif. 

 BODY:
Every day, Bill Gross, the world's most successful bond fund manager, withdraws into a conference room at lunchtime with his lieutenants to discuss his firm's investments. The blinds are drawn to keep out the sunshine, and he forbids any fiddling with BlackBerrys or cellphones. He wants everyone disconnected from the outside world and focused on what matters most to him: mining riches for his clients at Pimco, the swiftly growing money management firm.
Mr. Gross, 65, has long been celebrated for his eccentricities. He learned some of his lucrative investing strategies by gambling in Las Vegas. Many of his most inspired ideas arrived while he was standing on his head doing yoga. He knows he has to be well dressed for client meetings or television -- but instead of keeping his Hermes ties neatly knotted, he drapes them around his neck like scarves so he can labor with his collar open. 
 And with the collapse of Wall Street, Mr. Gross has emerged as one of the nation's most influential financiers. His frequent appearances on CNBC draw buzz, as do his wickedly humorous monthly investing columns on the Pimco Web site. Treasury secretaries call him for advice. Warren E. Buffett, the Berkshire Hathaway chairman, and Alan Greenspan, the former Federal Reserve chairman, sing his praises. 
 ''He's a very individualistic person. He doesn't come at analysis or investment judgment in the words, terminology or ambience that I have been used to over the decades,'' Mr. Greenspan says. ''That may be the secret of his success. There is no doubt there is an extraordinary intellect there.'' Mr. Greenspan, it should be noted, now works for Pimco as a consultant. 
 Amid all of this, Mr. Gross and his firm are trying to shape the government's response to the economic crisis. He is one of the most fervent supporters of the Obama administration's plan to enlist private investors to help bail out the nation's ailing banks and try to revive the economy. 
 That effort, known as the Public-Private Investment Program, or P.P.I.P., has gained little traction so far. But Mr. Gross has energetically defended its architect, Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner, against critics like the New York University economics professor Nouriel Roubini and the New York Times columnist Paul Krugman -- both of whom argue that the strategy is flawed and that it would be best for the government to temporarily nationalize so-called zombie banks to prevent a repeat of the Great Depression. 
 Such nationalization, Mr. Gross insists, would be an unmitigated disaster. ''There are two grand plans,'' he said this spring at a meeting of his firm's investment committee. ''One is the Krugman-Roubini plan. They think the banks have so much garbage they are beyond hope. The other side is the administration's side. That's the one we're on. If the other side should ever gain credence, then we'll have something to worry about.''
 Mr. Gross is hardly a disinterested observer. Pimco, owned by the German insurer Allianz, is jockeying to be picked by Mr. Geithner to relieve the likes of Bank of America, Citigroup and other banks of an estimated $1 trillion in soured mortgage debt so they can start lending freely again. Mr. Gross calls the plan a ''win-win-win'' for the banks, taxpayers and Pimco investors. 
 The government is planning to announce soon which money managers will participate. A spokesman for the Treasury Department would not say whether Pimco would be one of them. 
 IN many ways, it is perfectly logical for the White House to turn to someone like Mr. Gross at such a time. Few investors understand the mortgage market better. As co-chief investment officer, he personally manages Pimco's flagship, the Total Return fund, which has $158 billion in assets. As of the end of May, he had invested 61 percent of the fund's money in mortgage bonds. 
 Mr. Gross has always been partial to mortgage bonds. And why not? He has done fabulously well with them. In an October 2005 letter to investors, he made one of the most prescient calls of the last decade, warning of the looming subprime mortgage crisis. Almost everybody ignored him. Today, they wish they hadn't. 
 When the housing bubble burst and the financial markets fell apart, investors lost billions of dollars. Not Mr. Gross's clients. Class A shares of the Total Return fund, for individual investors, were up 4.3 percent in 2008, or nine percentage points ahead of comparable bond funds, according to Morningstar; this year through Thursday, the shares were up 5.4 percent. 
 In the midst of an economic crisis, those numbers are impressive. So is the longer-term record: In the 10 years through Thursday, the fund had an annualized return of 6.42 percent, beating its benchmark by 0.54 percentage points, according to Morningstar.
 That's one of the reasons the government has courted him closely. Last fall, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, run at the time by Mr. Geithner, hired Pimco -- along with BlackRock, Goldman Sachs and Wellington Management -- to buy up to $1.25 trillion in mortgage bonds in an effort to keep interest rates from skyrocketing. 
 Last December, when it was pressing Bank of America to complete its ill-fated acquisition of Merrill Lynch, the Federal Reserve also looked to Pimco for advice. According to recently released messages that Fed staff members sent one another that month, Pimco evaluated the two banks and concluded that Merrill wouldn't survive without a capital infusion or additional government aid.
 Today, Mr. Gross is eager to buy the same subprime loans he once refused to touch, as part of the Treasury's distressed-asset initiative. After all, the thinking goes, if anybody can figure out how much all this debt is worth, it's Pimco. But Pimco's involvement in so many aspects of the bailout has made many other financiers and analysts uncomfortable. They say its proximity to the Treasury Department and the Fed may allow it to reap billions of easy dollars through federal contracts and preferential investment opportunities. 
 A frequent complaint is this: Why is the Federal Reserve paying Pimco to buy mortgage securities on its behalf, when the firm is already a huge buyer and seller of the same bonds? ''That's the equivalent of a no-bid contract in Iraq,'' fumes Barry Ritholtz, who runs an equity research firm in New York and writes The Big Picture, a popular and well-regarded economics blog. ''It's a license to steal.''
 No one, of course, has actually accused Pimco of theft. But there is a larger question: Whose interests is the firm looking out for in the bailout? Money managers, after all, have a legal obligation -- a fiduciary responsibility -- to put the interest of their investors before anyone else. Even Mr. Gross acknowledges that Pimco's interests won't always be aligned with those of the government.
 Mr. Gross points out that he has never even met Mr. Geithner. For its part, the Treasury Department plays down Pimco's influence. ''We speak with a number of market participants and believe seeking out a diversity of perspectives is critical to our efforts,'' says Andrew Williams, a spokesman for the department. He says the Treasury takes conflicts of interests ''very seriously in all cases.'' 
 Mr. Gross is well aware of the criticism that has been directed at Pimco. During an interview at its headquarters in Newport Beach, Calif., sitting at his horseshoe-shaped desk on its 4,200-square-foot trading floor overlooking the Pacific Ocean, he brings up the topic of perceived conflicts of interest himself.
 He almost never personally buys and sells bonds. Pimco has dozens of traders who do this for him here. ''There's the mortgage desk over there,'' he says, pointing to a group of well-scrubbed young people hunched over computers. ''We've been buying some mortgages this morning. That's our baby, so to speak. That's our bag.''
 He immediately adds that this mortgage trading operation is completely separate from the one on the floor below, where traders are working on behalf of the Fed. He says he can't even visit that floor himself anymore without a company lawyer at his side. The last time he did was in December, when he wished the traders happy holidays. 
 ''I said, 'Merry Christmas,' '' Mr. Gross recalls. ''The lawyer said, 'Mr. Gross says Merry Christmas.' Right then and there, I knew that communications were basically severed. That's the way the Fed wants it.''
 He says he assumes that Pimco traders working on behalf of the government don't talk to their peers trading for Pimco's own accounts. Then again, he said he doesn't know for sure what happens after hours.
 ''I don't drink beer with these guys; I have no idea what happens in the privacy of their own homes,'' he says. He says that when he encounters traders working for the Fed outside the office, he doesn't talk to them. 
 ''I pass some of them on the way to the lunch shop,'' he says. ''I just sort of wave. I don't know what to do.''
 MR. GROSS is fond of saying he is the antithesis of a Wall Street ''alpha male.'' He is every bit the Southern Californian, with longish hair and a laid-back attitude. Most Wall Street executives won't talk to a reporter without a public relations person hovering nearby. Even then, they can be disappointingly bland. No one would ever say such a thing about Mr. Gross. He approaches an interview is almost like a therapy session; it is a chance for him to make confessions. 
 ''I'll tell you an interesting story,'' he says at one point. ''I shouldn't, but I will. It's like I'm taking truth serum every time I do this.'' 
 The tale is about ''a very childish and immature'' e-mail message that he sent Don Phillips, a managing director of Morningstar, the mutual fund research company, when Morningstar didn't select him as its fixed-income fund manager of the year in 2008. It is an intriguing story. But it's nowhere near as interesting as what he has to say about Pimco's role in the bailout.
 He sounds genuinely pained by the economic collapse. ''There was always a big part of me that thought the Depression was just something from my old American Heritage history books,'' he says. ''I thought: 'This stuff can't happen really. I mean, this is just for the economic philosophers and the paranoid worriers.' Then, in the last 6 to 12 months, you go, 'God, this just might happen!' ''
 With the fate of the largest banks still uncertain, a heated debate continues about how to fix the problem. Mr. Geithner wants to enlist money managers like Pimco to buy distressed bank assets with financial backing from the government. That way, his supporters argue, they can offer such generous prices that banks can disgorge the assets without too painful a hit.
 But proponents of bank nationalization say the Treasury's plan won't work because some banks can't afford to take any losses on asset sales. This camp believes nationalization is the best path because it will let the government clean up banks' balance sheets and restore their health.
 Mr. Gross argues that this would completely destabilize the financial markets. ''If you thought Lehman Brothers was a mistake, just stand by and see what nationalizing Citi or B.of A. would do,'' he argued in one of his monthly letters to Pimco investors. 
 His mood brightens when he talks about how much money Pimco could reap by participating in the Geithner plan. No wonder: the terms are deliciously favorable for participants selected as fund managers. Money managers like Pimco would be expected to raise at least $500 million from their clients. The Treasury would match that with taxpayer dollars. Then Pimco and the Treasury would create a jointly owned fund of at least $1 billion that would buy distressed mortgage bonds.
 Government largess doesn't stop there. The fund will be eligible for low-interest financing from both the Treasury and the Fed that analysts at Credit Suisse First Boston estimate could be as high as four times the total equity in the fund. So if Pimco ponied up $500 million, the fund that it manages could borrow $4 billion.
 Pimco would then negotiate with banks to buy their wobbly mortgage-backed securities. Mr. Gross says that some of these securities pay an interest rate as high as 14 percent and that even if default rates were 70 percent, Pimco and the government would still make a 5 percent return after covering their negligible borrowing costs. That means the government-Pimco partnership could make at least $250 million in a year on a $5 billion investment fund. Of that amount, Pimco would get $125 million -- a 25 percent return on its original investment.
 But here's the part that makes Mr. Gross salivate. If things go badly, the government is responsible for repaying all that debt. ''It's just like in blackjack,'' he says. ''That puts the odds in your favor. If you don't bet too much and if you stay at the table long enough, the odds are high that you are going to go home with some extra money in your pocket.'' 
 Indeed, for all of Mr. Gross's anguished talk about the crisis, there's no escaping the fact that Pimco isn't exactly suffering. In November, the Total Return fund became the world's largest mutual fund with $128.4 billion in assets, according to Morningstar. Since then, its assets under management have climbed to $158 billion. The firm once had trouble luring prospective employees to Newport Beach. Now Pimco is being deluged with resumes. 
 Meanwhile, some of the most powerful people in the nation call Mr. Gross for advice. ''Paulson will call, Geithner will call, and I'll be like, 'Yabba-dabba' or 'Blah-blah-blah,' '' he says with a measure of self-deprecation -- and an equal dose of pride. ''I turn into a walking, talking idiot.'' 
 Mr. Gross has been through crises before. He nearly died -- and briefly lost part of his scalp -- in 1966 when he crashed his car while making a doughnut run for his fraternity brothers at Duke University. He spent much of his senior year recovering in the hospital. He also became obsessed with blackjack after reading ''Beat the Dealer: A Winning Strategy for the Game of Twenty-One,'' by Edward O. Thorp, an M.I.T. mathematics professor (who is now a very successful hedge fund manager). 
 After he got his diploma, Mr. Gross hopped a freight train to Las Vegas with $200 sewed into his pant leg. He played blackjack for 16 hours a day. ''After a while it gets pretty boring and pretty stinky,'' he recalls. ''People lose money. They don't win it. You're just watching the dealers.'' 
 Even so, in four months, he turned $200 into $10,000 and used his winnings to pay for his studies toward an M.B.A. at the University of California, Los Angeles. He thought he could apply the lessons learned at the blackjack table to the stock market. After getting the degree, he called all the big Wall Street brokerage firms. Nobody called him back. 
 FINALLY, his mother showed him a classified ad for a junior credit analyst in the bond department at the Pacific Investment Management Company, a subsidiary of Pacific Mutual Life.
 Although Mr. Gross had no interest in bonds, he took the job as a steppingstone to stock-picking. Back then, the bond market was a sleepy corner of the financial world. Mr. Gross's job was to make sure that Pimco avoided buying bonds from companies that might go belly-up and burn their creditors. 
 By the mid-1970s, the market had become sexier as shrewd investors like Mr. Gross began trading bonds like stocks -- and began earning outsize profits.
 In short order, Mr. Gross also dived into the first mortgage-backed securities (which carried comfy government guarantees) and began studiously monitoring interest rates so he could place bets on his own macroeconomic predictions. This was highly unusual for a bond fund manager -- and still is.
 ''There are a lot of big bond shops that frankly don't feel confident doing this,'' says Lawrence Jones, a Morningstar analyst. ''It's not part of their tool kit.''
 Mr. Gross played well on television. In 1983, he became a regular on ''Wall Street Week'' on PBS; he loved the attention, and his ubiquity gave Pimco a big boost. Four years later, Pimco rolled out the Total Return fund. Over the next 10 years, its assets soared to $24 billion from $165 million. Much of this was because of shrewd investing. But TV did wonders, too. ''It doesn't do you any good to be good if nobody knows about you,'' Mr. Gross says.
 In 1999, he warned in his monthly investment column that the dot-com bubble would soon burst. The next year, it did. Despite the market downdraft, Mr. Gross's fund ended 2000 up 12 percent, and that same year he and his partners sold Pimco to Allianz for $3.3 billion. Mr. Gross received $233 million for his stake, and Allianz also agreed to pay him $40 million in retention bonuses and seems to be giving him free rein. 
 Not that Mr. Gross was going anywhere. 
 FREE from distraction in a gym across the street from his offices, Mr. Gross happily rides a stationary bike, followed by a half-hour of yoga. Toward the end of his routine, he stands on his head for a few minutes in a position called the Feathered Peacock. He wobbles so much that you expect him to lose his balance and fall over, but he says some of his best ideas have come to him while he was upside down. 
 One of those insights came in 2005, when -- while standing on his head -- he began to worry about the real estate bubble. 
 He'd watched the prices of homes climb into the stratosphere in Southern California, and he says he felt as if he were witnessing something out of ''Alice in Wonderland.'' Was this happening all around the country?
 Pimco dispatched 11 mortgage analysts to 20 cities to find out. They posed as prospective homebuyers and drove around with unsuspecting real estate agents and mortgage brokers who told them how easily they could get a home loan. ''It was a little deceptive,'' Mr. Gross says. ''I didn't feel good about that, but I didn't know how else to get the real information.''
 Mr. Gross says he thought it was obvious what was driving this madness: subprime mortgages. He was certain that the real estate market would collapse and take the economy down with it, and he made those thoughts known in letters to his investors. Pimco steered clear of risky housing debt, which meant that, for a time, some of his competitors who stockpiled the briefly lucrative products outperformed him. 
 For a fiercely competitive man, it was an awkward time. ''Bill takes it hard when the numbers aren't what he thinks they should be,'' his wife, Sue, confided by e-mail. ''In 2006, he recommended a Pimco bond fund to the owner of a local doughnut shop, and when it didn't do well for a while, he could hardly go in the shop for his favorite coconut cake doughnut.''
 Fortunately for Mr. Gross, but not for the economy, this couldn't last forever. The housing bubble finally burst in 2007, and the crisis followed. He was vindicated. Yet this was only part of the reason for his success. He also predicted in one of his monthly columns that the government would have to pump billions of dollars into the economy to avert a total collapse. At the same time, he and his Pimco team came up with an audacious plan: invest in bond sectors that Washington would be forced to support -- like government-backed mortgages guaranteed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. 
 Mr. Gross whimsically calls this strategy ''shake hands with the government.'' And he used his access to the news media to get the government's attention. In a CNBC interview on Aug. 20, 2008, he argued that Americans were putting ''their money in the mattress'' because the government hadn't rescued imperiled financial institutions like Fannie and Freddie. 
 On Sept. 7, Henry M. Paulson Jr., then the Treasury secretary, announced that the government was taking over Fannie and Freddie. The value of the Total Return fund rose by $1.7 billion in a single day. 
 Michele Davis, Mr. Paulson's former spokeswoman, says Mr. Gross's TV appearances had nothing to do with the decision: ''There are $5.4 trillion of Fannie and Freddie securities around the world. Investors here and across the globe were worried and voicing the same concerns.''
 But some of Pimco's critics aren't convinced. ''The Treasury Department watches CNBC all day,'' says Steven Eisman, a portfolio manager and banking expert at FrontPoint Partners, an investment firm. ''I know that for a fact. He was putting pressure on them.''
 Mr. Gross says nothing could have been further from his mind. He says he goes on TV with ''a disbelief that people will believe or act on what I say,'' adding that ''people should think independently.''
 At the same time, Pimco tried to influence the direction of the bailout itself. In the spring of 2008, Pimco's chief executive, Mohamed A. el-Erian, a former policy expert at the International Monetary Fund, floated a plan in Washington for a public-private partnership similar to the P.P.I.P. plan that Mr. Geithner later unveiled. It didn't get much traction. 
 But then Lehman Brothers collapsed on Sept. 15. Mr. Paulson asked Congress to pass the Troubled Asset Relief Plan, better known as TARP, which would enable the government to spend $700 billion to buy mortgage securities from teetering banks. The Treasury turned to Pimco and others for help. 
 ''When we first asked for the TARP legislation in September, we were looking at purchasing assets,'' says Ms. Davis, the former Treasury spokeswoman. ''We definitely talked to Pimco and a lot of other asset managers. You had to find out how such a program might work and bounce ideas around to see how this thing would work.'' 
 In the midst of the crisis, in October, Mr. Gross's friend, Mr. Buffett, wrote to Mr. Paulson suggesting a plan similar to the one Mr. Erian had been pushing. However, Mr. Buffett says he came up with his idea independently. 
 ''I called Bill Gross and Mohamed and said: 'I've got this idea. If it goes forward, I hope you guys would manage it and would do it on a pro bono basis,' '' Mr. Buffett recalled in an interview. ''Within an hour, they said they were on board and they were willing to do whatever was called for.'' 
 Mr. Gross publicly announced that his firm would do the job free. ''I got call after call, e-mail after e-mail saying what Bill offered was right for the country and that he was a great American,'' says a Pimco spokesman, Mark J. Porterfield. At first, it looked as if the Treasury might take Mr. Gross up on the offer. But his hopes were temporarily dashed when the Treasury simply gave TARP funds to the banks instead of purchasing bad assets. 
 And at the same time, people began to wonder about Mr. Gross's motives. He made it clear that he was not afraid to put Pimco's interests ahead of the government's in the bailout. As part of its ''shake hands with the government'' strategy, Pimco had bet that the Bush administration would come to the rescue of the nation's banks and other financial institutions. So it bought a variety of those bonds, including those of GMAC, the financial division of General Motors. 
 In November, as the economy continued to weaken, GMAC asked the Fed for permission to become a bank holding company so it could receive TARP financing. The central bank granted GMAC's wish, with one caveat: GMAC had to swap 75 percent of its debt for equity, allowing GMAC to potentially buy back a big chunk of its bonds for just 60 cents on the dollar.
 Mr. Gross balked at the arrangement because, as a GMAC bondholder, he would have been forced to take a big financial haircut. ''We said: 'It doesn't look too good to us. We think we'll just hold onto the existing bonds,' '' he remembered. Much to the amazement of many people on Wall Street, the Federal Reserve, which declined to comment, still allowed GMAC to become a bank holding company and the government later guaranteed all of its debt, meaning that Mr. Gross's GMAC bonds would be worth 100 cents on the dollar when they mature. 
 Mr. Gross is unapologetic about the outcome. ''The government has a vested interest, and it's not necessarily aligned with Pimco's interest,'' he says.
 SIMON JOHNSON, a former chief economist for the International Monetary Fund and now a professor at the Sloan School of Management at M.I.T., says he isn't surprised that Mr. Gross is such a virulent foe of nationalization. As Professor Johnson points out, Pimco is a major bondholder in some of the biggest banks. Nationalization would hurt his portfolio.
 ''It would reduce the present value of his holding,'' says Professor Johnson, himself a proponent of nationalization. ''Therefore, he is not going to look good as an investment manager.''
 What of Mr. Gross's predictions that nationalization would deepen the recession? Professor Johnson acknowledges that there are risks either way, but says he thinks that people should be skeptical when powerful financiers make doomsday predictions. 
 ''I think we pay undue deference to people who are very rich and have been successful in the financial sector in this country,'' he says. ''We think they are the gurus who think they have unique expertise, and if Bill Gross tells us there will be a panic, it must be true. Well, no, I don't believe it. These guys all say this kind of thing.''
 The twist, of course, is that the Obama administration has embraced the same public-private partnership proposal that Pimco has been pushing along and that Mr. Paulson briefly considered last fall. Mr. Gross says that the Geithner plan is better because the government provides such generous debt financing. 
 Pimco is proud of its partnership with the government. Mr. Erian points out that the firm's executives have been members of the Treasury Department's Borrowing Advisory Committee (along with many other Wall Street executives) for years. Its current representative, the Pimco managing director Paul McCulley, says part of his job is to ingratiate himself with officials at the Treasury and the Federal Reserve so Pimco can better understand impending policy decisions. He boasts that he is on a ''first-name basis'' with both Mr. Geithner and the Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke. 
 ''We have a whole lot bigger profile now than we did years ago, but the fact of the matter is we've been doing the same thing in the last year that we've been doing for the last 10 years,'' Mr. McCulley says. ''I'd like to think we're having some influence in the public policy arena. And I say that first and foremost as a citizen.''
 Citizen -- but also investor. And some critics of the financial benefits that Pimco might snare if the P.P.I.P. gets rolling are quick to point out what Pimco stands to gain. 
 ''The critics would argue that all the benefits go to Pimco,'' says Representative Scott Garrett, Republican of New Jersey, who is a member of the House Financial Services Committee and a skeptic of the Geithner plan. ''Well, maybe not all the benefits. But they get the best ones right out the door. And the taxpayers are on the hook.''
 The Obama administration says it will soon select lead fund managers for P.P.I.P. It's almost certain that Pimco will be among them. ''If you are trying to encourage investment from the private sector, isn't it only logical to involve the most successful asset management organizations in the private sector?'' says Thomas C. Priore, chief of ICP Capital, a boutique fixed-income investment bank.
 And being selected by the government has other benefits, Mr. Priore adds. ''If any endowment or public pension plan representative is looking for an asset management firm, he or she won't get fired for hiring Pimco because, well, the government hired Pimco,'' he says. ''That certainly enhances your franchise value.''
 P.P.I.P.'s fate remains uncertain. When the Treasury Department put 19 of the nation's largest banks through a stress test, many passed the exam and their stocks prices rose. They have raised $50 billion in new capital. Now some of them are likely to hold on to their distressed mortgage securities in the hope that the housing market recovers -- rather than face the pain of selling the assets at a loss now (a situation that may get dicey if housing doesn't, in fact, recover).
 The Treasury now says that Mr. Geithner expects P.P.I.P. to serve as ''backstop'' for banks that find themselves in a pinch. 
 There's a darker scenario, possibly. If mortgage default rates do soar, some big banks may fail. Then the administration would have to seriously consider nationalization, which might devastate Mr. Gross's holdings. He is, of course, well of aware of this possibility and says he's watching Mr. Geithner as closely as he watched the blackjack dealers in Las Vegas. 
 ''We just don't want to flush it all down the drain,'' he says. ''You want to shake hands with the government. But maybe it shouldn't be a super-firm handshake.''
 AT a lunchtime meeting this past spring at Pimco, executives tell Mr. Gross that they're worried about the fallout the firm will face if it receives a financial windfall as part of P.P.I.P.
 ''The risk is that you have a Congress with a populist bug,'' Mr. McCulley says.
 Dan Ivascyn, another of the firm's managing directors, agrees. ''I think there is a risk that we're going to get criticized,'' he says. ''I think Pimco could get roughed up.''
 ''I think there is a much bigger chance of us getting roughed up personally,'' says Scott Simon, head of Pimco's mortgage-backed securities team. 
 Finally, Mr. Gross weighs in.
 ''So what are you saying?'' he asks. ''If we fail, we'll get the shaft, and if we succeed, we'll get the shaft?'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Appearing on TV and bending the ear of the White House, Bill Gross of Pimco has emerged as one of the nation's most influential financiers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHANIE DIANI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.BU1)
Timothy F. Geithner, the Treasury secretary, wants investors like Pimco to work with the government to buy some bank debt. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM BOURG/REUTERS) (pg.BU6)
Warren E. Buffett, right, wrote to Henry M. Paulson Jr. last year to say Pimco should be in charge of any effort to buy the securities that were drowning Wall Street. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES)
Mohamed el-Erian, C.E.O. of Pimco, didn't initially get much traction with his plan for a public-private partnership to buy distressed debt, but the Treasury later unveiled a similar proposal. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHIL MCCARTEN/REUTERS) (pg.BU7) GRAPHIC: FOR PIMCO, A WIN-WIN PROPOSAL: Money managers like Pimco are poised to make a profit by teaming with the government to purchase distressed mortgage-backed securities from banks. Here is one possiblity for such a public-private partnership. (Sources: Treasury Department
Pimco
 Credit Suisse First Boston) (DRAWINGS BY JOSE CRUZ) (pg.BU1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (90%); NATIONALIZATION (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); BOND FUNDS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (72%); BANK FAILURES (72%); PUBLIC PRIVATE INVESTMENT PROGRAM (71%); BAILOUTS (67%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (67%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (66%); GREAT DEPRESSION (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%)

COMPANY: BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (55%)

TICKER: BRK.B (NYSE) (55%); BRK.A (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (55%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (55%)

PERSON: BILL GROSS (90%); WARREN BUFFETT (72%); ALAN GREENSPAN (71%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (52%); PAUL KRUGMAN (50%); BARACK OBAMA (50%); NOURIEL ROUBINI (50%); HENRY PAULSON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2009



602 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 188 words

HEADLINE: Elevating the Arts in School

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Study Finds Instruction in Art Lags in 8th Grade'' (news article, June 16): 
 Secretary of Education Arne Duncan states it well in his response to the lackluster results of the eighth-grade music and visual arts assessment known as the National Assessment of Educational Progress in Arts: ''This arts report card should challenge all of us to make K-12 arts programs more available to America's children.'' 
 A comprehensive strategy for a complete education includes rigorous, sequential arts instruction in the classroom. And a federal commitment to arts education must be strengthened so that the arts are part of the core curriculum. Research shows that students who study the arts outperform their peers who do not. Increasingly, controlled studies reveal a powerful positive relationship between study in the arts and other academic subjects, attitudes and behaviors.Perhaps more important, the arts also teach discipline and creativity, arguably the skills most needed for workers in a global economy. 
 Robert L. Lynch
 President and Chief Executive
 Americans for the Arts
 Washington, June 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); CURRICULA (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (77%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); VISUAL ARTS (73%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (72%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (71%); CORE CURRICULUM (68%); EXECUTIVES (65%)

PERSON: ARNE DUNCAN (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2009



603 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; IQUITOS JOURNAL; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1080 words

HEADLINE: Adopting Forebears' Faith And Leaving Peru for Israel

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

DATELINE: IQUITOS, Peru 

 BODY:
If Ronald Reategui Levy someday finds that he is the last Jew of Iquitos, it may well be of his own doing. 
 His dream, which he has vigorously pursued, is to persuade the descendants of Sephardic merchants who settled in this remote corner of the Amazon basin more than a century ago to reaffirm their ties to Judaism and emigrate to Israel. 
 ''It is getting very lonely here,'' said Mr. Reategui Levy, 52, an inspector at Peru's national oil company, referring to the more than 400 descendants of Jewish pioneers who have formally converted to Judaism this decade, including about 160 members of his immediate and extended family. Nearly all of them now live in Israel. 
 Until recently, such a rebirth of Judaism here seemed unlikely. The history of Jews in Iquitos, dating from the late-19th-century rubber boom that transformed this far-flung Amazonian outpost into a once thriving city of imported Italian marble and a theater designed by Gustave Eiffel, was almost forgotten. 
 But Mr. Reategui Levy and a handful of others began organizing the descendants of dozens of Jews from places as varied as Morocco, Gibraltar, Malta, England and France who had settled here and deeper in the jungle, opening trading houses and following their star in search of riches and adventure. 
 The rubber trade collapsed, and fortunes here and upriver in the Brazilian city of Manaus vanished. Some Jewish immigrants perished young, succumbing to diseases like cholera. A few stayed, marrying local women and raising families. Others returned home, leaving behind descendants who clung to a belief that they were Jews. 
 ''It was astounding to discover that in Iquitos there existed this group of people who were desperate to reconnect to their roots and re-establish ties to the broader Jewish world,'' said Lorry Salcedo Mitrani, the director of a new documentary, ''The Fire Within,'' about the Jews of the Peruvian Amazon. 
 Scholars compare the Jews here with groups like the Hispanic crypto-Jews of the southwestern United States and northern Mexico, the Lemba of southern Africa or the Bene Israel of India, who in varying ways have sought to reclaim a Jewish identity that had seemingly been weakened through time. 
 ''We were isolated for so many decades, living on the jungle's edge in a Catholic society without rabbis or a synagogue, in which all we had were some vague notions of what it meant to be Jewish,'' Mr. Reategui Levy said. 
 ''But when I was a child, my mother told me something that forever burned into my mind,'' he said. ''She told me, 'You are a Jew, and you are never to forget that.' '' 
 Iquitos lies four degrees south of the Equator, reachable only by boat or plane. Isolation, intermarriage and assimilation nearly wiped out the vestiges of Judaism here. Storefronts chiseled with Jewish surnames like Foinquinos and Cohen, and a cemetery ravaged by vandals, served as some of the few reminders of the community that once thrived here. 
 But by the end of the 1990s, some of these descendants, including Mr. Reategui Levy, were brought together by Victor Edery, a patriarchal figure who organized religious ceremonies in his own home, keeping a few customs alive even if it was done by blending Jewish and Christian beliefs. 
 Still, the existence of the Jews of Iquitos posed some philosophical challenges to some Jews elsewhere. Since nearly all the Jews who originally settled here were men, their descendants could not attest to having Jewish mothers, ruling them out as being Jewish according to strict interpretations of Jewish law. 
 Moreover, the Jewish community of about 3,000 people in Lima, the capital, largely preferred to ignore the Jews of Iquitos, some scholars say, in part because of the thorny issues that the Jews here posed about race and origins. This is, after all, a country where a small light-skinned elite still wields considerable economic and political power -- and Lima's Jews are often seen as an elite within that elite.
 ''The notion of a Jew who looks like an Indian and lives in a poor house in a small city in the middle of the jungle is, at best, an exotic footnote to the official history of Peru's Jewry as Lima sees it,'' said Ariel Segal, a Venezuelan-born Israeli historian whose arrival here in the 1990s to study the community also helped serve as a catalyst for the Iquitos Jews to organize. 
 By the start of this decade, the Jews here were gathering to observe Shabbat each Friday and during the High Holy Days at the home of the patriarch, Mr. Edery. After he died, they met on Prospero Street at the home of Jorge Abramovitz, 60, whose father, a Polish Jew, moved here long after the collapse of the rubber boom. 
 While they lacked a rabbi, they conducted services in Hebrew they learned from cassette tapes. They cleaned their cemetery and began burying their dead there again. They persisted in their campaign to be recognized as Jews and to be allowed to emigrate to Israel. 
 Finally, they persuaded Guillermo Bronstein, the chief rabbi of Lima's largest Ashkenazi synagogue, to oversee two large conversions, easing the way for hundreds to move to Israel. The exodus included nearly the entire Levy clan, descended from Joseph Levy, an adventurer who put down stakes here in the 19th century. 
 Mr. Reategui Levy, the oil field inspector, moved in 2005 with his wife and six children to Ramla, a dusty city southeast of Tel Aviv. But despite dreaming for decades of such a move, he said he had trouble adjusting to Israeli life. 
 He said he missed his house with cacao and passion fruit trees, and the status of being a manager at PetroPeru. He murmured something, just audible over the din of this city's thousands of motorcycle rickshaws, about losing the spark of love with his wife. 
 So, unlike nearly all the Iquitenos who moved to Israel, Mr. Reategui Levy moved back, alone. 
 He still attends Shabbat at Mr. Abramovitz's home each week, along with 40 or so other regulars who dream of formally converting and moving to Israel. While their numbers have dwindled, he encourages them and regales them with tales of fertile land in the Golan Heights and the bravery of his eldest son, Uri, who is in the Israeli Army. 
 But something keeps Mr. Reategui Levy here in Iquitos, the same decaying jungle city that attracted his great-grandfather from Tangier so many decades ago. ''My family, my heart and soul, all that I hold dear are in Israel,'' he said. ''Maybe I am back here for a reason.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: June 26, 2009

 CORRECTION:
The Iquitos Journal article on Monday, about the Jews of Iquitos, Peru, a decaying Amazon jungle city that thrived as a 19th century trading post before the decline of the rubber business, referred incorrectly to the location of Manaus, Brazil, another Amazon jungle city that suffered when the rubber business weakened. It is downriver from Iquitos, not upriver.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Peruvian Jews celebrating the Sabbath, above, at a synagogue in Iquitos. Ronald Reategui Levy, left, a Jewish oil field inspector, has persuaded many Jews in the town to move to Israel.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY TOMAS MUNITA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Many people in Iquitos with Jewish forebears formally convert and emigrate to Israel. Map details Iquitos, Peru. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JEWS & JUDAISM (95%); RELIGION (91%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); FAMILY (88%); MARRIAGE (74%); CHEMICALS TRADE (73%); TROPICAL DISEASES (70%); CITY LIFE (67%); CITIES (67%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHWEST, USA (79%); WEST USA (52%); EQUATOR (50%) PERU (99%); ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); MEXICO (79%); ENGLAND (79%); BRAZIL (79%); AFRICA (75%); MOROCCO (70%); FRANCE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2009



604 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA EQUATION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1148 words

HEADLINE: How Good (Or Not Evil) Is Google?

BYLINE: By DAVID CARR

DATELINE: MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. 

 BODY:
 Years after cracking the very code of the Web to lucrative ends, Google may be in the midst of trying to conjure the most complicated algorithm yet: to wit, can goodness, or at least a stated intention not to be evil, scale along with the enterprise?
 Among other adventures, Google's motives were called into question after it scanned in millions of books without permission, prompting the Authors Guild and publishers to file a class-action suit. The proposed $125 million settlement will lead to a book registry financed by Google and a huge online archive of mostly obscure books, searched and served up by Google. 
 So is that a big win for a culture that increasingly reads on screen -- or a land grab of America's most precious intellectual property?
 The question of intent was always present during my visit last Tuesday to the so-called Googleplex. In recent years, Google has used its billions in earnings (more than $4 billion last year) to finance all manner of applied and pure research while coming up with applications that made it all the more powerful and ubiquitous in the process. 
 The company's large footprint in the culture means it is an endless subject of speculation. Apart from the federal regulatory interest in the book settlement, there have been whispers in the Valley about a fleeing of talent, in part because Twitter, the buzziest Web app of the moment, was put together by Google expats. And the success that had journalists running out of superlatives has returned to earth, or at least a Google version of it: the company recorded annual revenue growth of only 31 percent, and just 6 percent in the first quarter of this year. 
 Microsoft, which had its own run in the pole position, has come up with Bing, a search engine of all things, which picked up search-market share for the second week in a row, to 12.1 percent. Eric Schmidt, Google's chief executive, said he had no issue with the scrutiny, and he laughed along with some of the gossip. 
 The company was happy to accommodate my visit because the founders, Sergey Brin and Larry Page, along with Mr. Schmidt, have come to believe that part of their job is explaining themselves.
 ''We have a view of what our role is and we also acknowledge that others have a view of what that role should be,'' Mr. Schmidt said. 
 Sitting in a small office that adjoins his and is decorated by a deactivated B-52 bomber's chair -- a gift from the founders to the chief executive -- Mr. Schmidt is very much at ease explaining the behemoth he runs, a surprising knack given his training as an engineer.
 He knows that Google's never-ending ambitions make other people -- me included -- nervous.
 ''The brutal economic answer is that the Internet does in fact change other people's businesses because of this massive distribution,'' he said. ''We should just acknowledge that and not hide from it.''
 Google is, broadly, the Wal-Mart of the Internet, a huge force that can set terms and price -- in this case free -- except Google is not selling hammers and CDs, it is operating at the vanguard of intellectual property. 
 The fact that a newspaper man gets a little twitchy visiting Google is no surprise -- I was both thrilled and freaked out by some demos of Flipper, a rethinking of Google News I saw during a day there. 
 But others, like the Justice Department and a number of state attorneys general, have taken an acute interest in the proposed book settlement that Google negotiated over its right to scan millions of books, many of them out of print. Revenue will be split with any known holders of the copyright, but it is the company's dominion over so-called orphan works that has intellectual property rights advocates livid.
 ''It's disgusting,'' said Peter Brantley, director of access for the Internet Archive, which has been scanning books as well. ''We all share the general goal of getting more books online, but the class-action settlement gives them a release of any claims of infringement in using those works. For them to say that is not a barrier to entry for other people who might scan in those works is a crock.''
 The scanned book project is certainly consistent with the company's mission, which is ''to organize the world's information and make it universally accessible and useful.'' 
 ''What I think is great about books is that people just don't go to libraries that much, but they are in front of the computer all day,'' Mr. Schmidt said. ''And now they have access. If you are sitting and trying to finish a term paper at 2 in the morning, Google Books saved your rear end. That is a really oh-my-God kind of change.''
 The government has not yet made this argument -- filings are due in the case in September -- but others have pointed out that Google has something of a monopoly because the company went ahead and scanned seven million books without permission.
 ''To be very precise, we did not require permission to make those copies,'' Mr. Schmidt said, suggesting that by scanning and making just a portion of those works available, the company was well within the provisions of fair use. 
 ''People are bringing old narratives to this discussion rather than understanding the unique aspects of the Internet,'' he added. ''We are one click away from losing you as a customer, so it is very difficult for us to lock you in as a customer in a way that traditional companies have.''
 In a later meeting, Mr. Brin waved his hand when it was suggested that the company's decision to scan books and then reach a settlement had created a barrier to entry for others. (Google also has a separate commercial initiative to work with publishers to sell more current works.)
 ''I didn't see anyone lining up to scan books when we did it, or even now,'' Mr. Brin said. ''Some of them are motivated by near-term business disputes, and they don't see this as an achievement for humanity.'' 
 As with most matters involving Google, it is less about the specific activity than the scope of it. A company with Google's wherewithal and ambition may have the ability to eventually seem like the only choice in all manner of endeavors.
 The morning before I went to visit Google, I searched my Gmail to find my schedule and plugged it into my Google Calendar before pumping the address into Google Maps. I checked Google News to make sure that I was up to date on the latest headlines and made a file of questions in Google Docs and then hit the road, driving down from the Bay Area to see the basket where I store all those eggs at a cost of exactly nothing. 
 When I told Mr. Schmidt I was worried about Google's dominant presence in my digital life, he said: ''It's a legitimate concern. But the question is, how are we doing? Are our products working for you?''
 Why, yes they are. And if a book is ever written about all this, Google will probably be able to serve that up as well. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (89%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (76%); LITIGATION (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); CLASS ACTIONS (71%); SUITS & CLAIMS (71%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (70%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (68%); SEARCH ENGINES (67%); MARKET SHARE (63%); EXECUTIVES (61%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (97%); MICROSOFT CORP (53%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (97%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (97%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%)

PERSON: ERIC E SCHMIDT (79%); SERGEY BRIN (58%); LARRY PAGE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2009



605 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 229 words

HEADLINE: Looking Ahead

 BODY:
ECONOMIC DATA Reports will include existing-home sales for May (Tuesday); durable goods for May and new-home sales for May (Wednesday); the final reading of first-quarter gross domestic product (Thursday); and personal income for May and the Reuters/University of Michigan consumer sentiment index (Friday). 
 CORPORATE EARNINGS Reports will come from Walgreen (Monday); Kroger, Darden Restaurants and Oracle (Tuesday); Bed, Bath & Beyond, Monsanto, Nike and Rite Aid (Wednesday); ConAgra Foods, Lennar and Palm (Thursday); and KB Home (Friday).
 IN WASHINGTON The Senate Banking Committee conducts a hearing on the regulation of derivatives (Monday).
 The House Financial Services Committee conducts a hearing on the regulation of consumer financial products (Wednesday).
 The Federal Reserve meets (Wednesday).
 The Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, testifies before the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee about Bank of America's acquisition of Merrill Lynch (Thursday).
 ET CETERALehman Brothers will seek approval from bankruptcy court to investigate whether Barclays underpaid for its broker-dealer unit (Wednesday).
 The United Nations holds a summit meeting in New York on the global financial crisis (Wednesday through Friday).
 General Motors goes to bankruptcy court to seek final approval to borrow on its $33 billion bankruptcy loan (Thursday).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); NEW HOME SALES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (79%); CREDIT CRISIS (79%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (79%); EXISTING HOME SALES (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); DURABLE GOODS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); CONSUMER LAW (77%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (76%); CONSUMER LENDING (76%); APPROVALS (74%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (71%); RESTAURANTS (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (66%)

COMPANY: DARDEN RESTAURANTS INC (72%); KB HOME CORP (57%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (57%); MONSANTO CO (57%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%); BED BATH & BEYOND INC (57%); CONAGRA FOODS INC (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (58%); UNITED NATIONS (55%)

TICKER: DRI (NYSE) (72%); KBH (NYSE) (57%); MON (NYSE) (57%); BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%); BBBY (NASDAQ) (57%); CAG (NYSE) (57%); GM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (72%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (72%); NAICS236117 NEW HOUSING OPERATIVE BUILDERS (57%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (57%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (57%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS442299 ALL OTHER HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (57%); NAICS442110 FURNITURE STORES (57%); NAICS423210 FURNITURE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (57%); NAICS311999 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS FOOD MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311710 SEAFOOD PRODUCT PREPARATION & PACKAGING (57%); NAICS311615 POULTRY PROCESSING (57%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (57%); SIC2092 PREPARED FRESH OR FROZEN FISH & SEAFOODS (57%); SIC2015 POULTRY SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (57%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2009



606 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: Small Carmakers Benefit From Detroit's Financial Woes

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD; Nick Bunkley contributed reporting.

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
As if Detroit didn't have enough worries. 
 In addition to the recession, and the bankruptcies of Chrysler and General Motors, a new threat has appeared in the rearview mirror.
 Many smaller automakers are gaining a bigger share of the market, most notably Hyundai and Kia.
 Together, the two Korean brands, which are both owned by Hyundai, hold 7.3 percent of the American market, the same as Nissan, which ranks sixth in American sales, behind G.M., Toyota, Ford, Honda and Chrysler. Last year, Hyundai and Kia had 5 percent of the market. 
 Their gains appear to be a replay of what occurred four decades ago, when upstart automakers from Japan started selling cars in the United States. At the time, American carmakers dismissed them, but today they control nearly 40 percent of the American car market.
 Analysts see two main reasons that smaller companies are capitalizing on the auto industry's downturn. One is that the shrinking of the overall market -- the current selling rate is about 10 million vehicles a year, down 40 percent from two years ago -- has created opportunities for carmakers that do not need to sell millions of cars to make money. 
 ''You can be profitable at a much smaller market size, selling to much fewer numbers of people,'' said Ron Pinelli, president of Autodata, which tracks industry statistics. 
 Second, he said, buyers have become much less focused on brands and more on the quality of the vehicles themselves.
 ''There are so many good cars out there to choose from. Everybody's building a good car right now,'' Mr. Pinelli said. ''The average person who punches out of work and picks up some fast food and goes home to watch reality TV is oblivious to which auto brands are owned by which corporation.''
 Hyundai, in particular, has struck a nerve with its Hyundai Assurance plan, which allows buyers who finance their vehicles to return them if they lose their jobs. Other auto companies have adopted variations on the plan. 
 Hyundai has also received an image boost from its luxury Genesis model, which was named the North American car of the year at the 2009 Detroit Auto Show.
 ''The smaller automakers are having pretty good success in the last few years in creating loyalty, coming out with competitive products and benefiting from the misery of the bigger automakers,'' said Jesse Toprak, a senior analyst at Edmunds.com, a Web site that offers car-buying advice.
 Hyundai and Kia are outspending their Japanese and American competitors on incentives, which have averaged about $3,200 a vehicle this year, compared with $2,000 last year, Mr. Toprak said.
 ''They're seeing this as the perfect opportunity'' to pick up market share in the United States, he added.
 The German automakers Volkswagen, BMW and Mercedes-Benz have also gained market share this year, in part because their sales declines are smaller than that of the overall market, which is down 36.6 percent.
 Collectively, Korean and European auto companies hold 15.7 percent of the American car market this year, up more than three percentage points from a year ago.
 Their combined market share makes them bigger than Ford and close behind Toyota, the country's second-largest seller.
 Hyundai's growth has come from winning over customers like Lee Figliuolo, a retired information technology executive in Palm Coast, Fla., who traded his Toyota Solara last month for a Genesis. 
 He has owned four Cadillacs but passed on buying a Cadillac CTS, in part because he was concerned, at the time, about General Motors' looming bankruptcy filing. 
 (Now that G.M. has filed, the federal government is backing its warranties until it emerges from Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection.)
 ''A couple of years ago, I wouldn't have bought a Hyundai,'' Mr. Figliuolo said. But he was impressed by a friend's Hyundai Veracruz, a crossover vehicle, and decided to check out the Genesis.
 ''I drove it and absolutely loved it,'' he said. ''I'm a stickler for fit and finish, and this was the best I had ever driven.''
 Volkswagen's market share has climbed to 2 percent, from 1.5 percent a year ago, because of aggressive marketing for cars like the Jetta, whose sales rose 8.3 percent in May.
 Andrew Harrison of San Diego chose the Jetta after complaining to a Honda dealer that the Civic he test-drove did not have enough power. The dealer suggested he look at the Volkswagen. 
 ''It was not on my radar at all,'' Mr. Harrison said. ''The Jetta I remembered was a bubbly thing that I would have never purchased.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lee Figliuolo of Palm Coast, Fla., bought a Hyundai Genesis. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GARY BOGDON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B2) CHART: A BIGGER PIECE OF THE ACTION: The market share of smaller automakers, particularly Korean ones, has grown in the last few years. (Sources: Autodata) (pg.B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMAKERS (93%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (92%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); MARKET SHARE (89%); AUTOMOBILE RATINGS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (78%); MARKET SIZE (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); STATISTICS (71%); LAYOFFS (69%); REALITY TELEVISION (63%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); HYUNDAI MOTOR CO (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: HYUD (LSE) (92%); 005380 (KSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); SIC3569 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (92%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2009



607 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 381 words

HEADLINE: Redbox's Vending Machines Are Giving Netflix Competition

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
With more subscribers than ever flocking to its DVD-by-mail service, Netflix is one of the few companies prospering during the worst recession in 70 years. But another upstart called Redbox has emerged to give the company a run for its business. 
 In 2002, Redbox was just an incongruous experiment that McDonald's restaurants had tried to expand beyond burgers.
 McDonald's strategy group tried selling everything from toilet paper to fancy sandwiches, but only the idea of DVD rental succeeded.
 The group running Redbox grew from operating 12 of the DVD machines to about 900 in three years. Redbox today has more than 15,400 vending machines set up to dispense discs that rent for $1 a day in supermarkets and discount stores. In 2005 and 2006, Coinstar invested $37 million in Redbox; this year, Coinstar bought out McDonald's and other investors for up to $25 million.
 Redbox is opening an average of one kiosk an hour to lure consumers, which has Reed Hastings, chief executive of Netflix, taking notice.
 ''By the end of the year, kiosks will likely be our No. 1 competitor,'' Mr. Hastings said in a recent conference call. ''There are already more kiosks in America than video stores.''
 DVD kiosks account for more than half of Coinstar's sales and profit. That profit more than doubled in the last quarter on sales that rose even more swiftly to $154 million. Netflix grew at a slower pace, with first-quarter revenue rising 21 percent to $394 million.
 Mitch Lowe, Redbox's president, came to the company after six years with Netflix, where he was vice president for business development. 
 Netflix's expanse of 100,000 titles gives it a competitive advantage. In contrast, Redbox machines carry about 700 discs with 200 titles, mainly recent releases, which leaves the company to rely on the $1 nightly rate to encourage people to experiment.
 Because Netflix pays postage twice for every DVD it rents out, it does best when customers choose ambitious subscription plans, but are slow to watch and return movies. By comparison, Redbox's profits depend on it renting out each disc as many times as possible before demand for the movie peters out.
 To that end, Redbox tracks rentals to predict the right mix of titles and the right number of copies for each location. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Donel Ragpala and his son Sydney chose a movie at a Redbox kiosk in Seattle. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ELAINE THOMPSON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FAST FOOD (90%); CD & DVD DRIVES (78%); CONSUMER GOODS RENTAL (75%); RESTAURANTS (73%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (70%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (69%); EXECUTIVES (67%); BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (65%); CONFERENCE CALLS (51%)

COMPANY: NETFLIX INC (94%); REDBOX AUTOMATED RETAIL LLC (92%); COINSTAR INC (92%); MCDONALD'S CORP (85%)

TICKER: NFLX (NASDAQ) (94%); CSTR (NASDAQ) (92%); MCD (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (94%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (94%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (92%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (85%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (85%)

PERSON: REED HASTINGS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2009



608 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 720 words

PERSON: Ralf Dahrendorf 

HEADLINE: Ralf Dahrendorf, Sociologist, Dies at 80

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GRIMES

 BODY:
Ralf Dahrendorf, a German sociologist whose experiences in Nazi Germany led him to develop a theory of liberalism and human freedom that often went against the grain of German politics in the postwar period, died Wednesday in Cologne. He was 80. 
 His death was confirmed in a statement from Chancellor Angela Merkel, who said, ''Europe has lost one of its most important thinkers and intellectuals.'' The cause was cancer, said his wife, Dr. Christiane Dahrendorf. 
 Democracy and its problems preoccupied Mr. Dahrendorf for his entire career as a scholar and as a politician in West Germany in the 1960s and 1970s. As a high school student he had been imprisoned by the Nazis for spreading leaflets opposing the regime, and early in his life he developed a deep suspicion of what he called ''closed, encompassing systems.'' 
 Mr. Dahrendorf championed liberal pluralism, which he defined as a social system that recognizes divergent interests and aspirations and puts institutions in place that allow them to be expressed. 
 Democracy is ''about organizing conflict and living with conflict,'' he told an audience at the Institute of International Studies at the University of California, Berkeley, in 1989.
 ''The world isn't simple, nor should it be simple,'' he continued. ''It's rich because it's complicated. Let's learn to live with this.''
 He explored these ideas in ''Class and Class Conflict in Civil Society'' (1957), which famously proposed the counter-Marxist idea that power, rather than property, defined social class. Later books like ''Society and Democracy in Germany'' and ''Modern Social Conflict'' pursued similar themes.
 ''As a scholar he was always addressing human value problems in democracy, especially freedom, but he was also deeply involved in the civic life of Germany,'' said Neil J. Smeltser, an emeritus professor of sociology at Berkeley. ''He bridged the gap between social theory and social practice as well as anyone I can think of.''
 Ralf Gustav Dahrendorf was born in Hamburg, where his father, a Social Democratic politician, was arrested and removed from his job by the Nazis in 1933. The family moved to Berlin soon after. Mr. Dahrendorf's father was arrested again in 1944, and a few months later, Ralf was arrested by the Gestapo for anti-Nazi activities and sent to a concentration camp in Poland. He was released as Soviet forces advanced in 1945. 
 At the University of Hamburg, Mr. Dahrendorf studied philosophy and classics, earning a doctorate in philosophy in 1952. He went on to earn a second doctorate, in sociology, at the London School of Economics, where he studied under Karl Popper. It was Mr. Popper's ''Open Society'' that provided the answers, he once said, to the great questions of modern industrial society posed by Marx. 
 After teaching at the universities of Saarbrucken, Tubingen and Konstanz in West Germany, and at Stanford in California, he ran for a seat in the regional Parliament of Baden-Wurttemberg. In 1969 he was elected to the federal Parliament as a Free Democrat. He was a junior foreign minister in Willy Brandt's first government and in 1970 became a European commissioner. 
 At a time when liberal democracy was under attack, Mr. Dahrendorf, as both a university professor and a politician, held fast to the principles of pluralism and personal freedom. His convictions were Social Democratic with a libertarian spin. 
 He favored laws and policies that encouraged personal freedom, a sense of citizenship and a broadening of social, economic and political opportunities. Germany's problems, he argued, stemmed from a belief in absolute answers and in the yearning for an all-powerful leader to put them into effect. 
 In 1974 he was invited to become director of the London School of Economics, a post he held for the next decade. He later wrote a history of the school. 
 He returned to Germany to become chairman of the social sciences department at Konstanz University, but in 1987 he accepted the position of warden of St. Antony's College, Oxford. He became a British citizen in 1988 and was made a life peer under the name Lord Dahrendorf of Clare Market in the City of Westminster in 1993. 
 In addition to Dr. Dahrendorf, his third wife, he is survived by three daughters, Nicola, Alexandra and Daphne, and one grandchild.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ralf Dahrendorf in 2004.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ROLAND MAGUNIA/A.F.P. -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); SOCIOLOGY (91%); LIBERALISM (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); POLITICS (89%); PHILOSOPHY (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); HIGH SCHOOLS (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (66%); ARRESTS (65%); CANCER (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (55%)

ANGELA MERKEL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAMBURG, GERMANY (92%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (75%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) GERMANY (94%); EUROPE (90%); POLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Gov't (Foreign), Social Activism

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2009



609 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 645 words

HEADLINE: Economic Woes Affect Some July 4th Fireworks

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI

 BODY:
The recession is taking a bit of the bang out of the Fourth of July this year.
 With budget woes forcing many local governments to slash services and lay off workers, at least a dozen communities in the New York area have canceled their Independence Day fireworks, including the New Jersey communities of Rahway and Millville.
 A handful of other towns have either scaled back their shows or have rescheduled them to avoid the cost of holiday pay for police officers and firefighters. Others are scurrying to find private sponsors. 
 In some communities, like Norwich, Conn., and New Providence and Cranford in New Jersey, plans to scrap shows were reversed after community outcry spurred enough private donations to pay for them.
 But in Ridgefield Park, N.J., home of the state's oldest Fourth of July celebration, village leaders decided this year that because of the exceptionally bleak economic outlook, they could not afford to put on their traditional show, which costs about $50,000. 
 ''I'm not going to say it's a luxury, because fireworks are a very important tradition, and Fourth of July is a very important day,'' said Ridgefield Park's mayor, George D. Fosdick. ''But if you're confronting a situation where you're afraid you may have to lay people off and cost a family its livelihood, then it's a decision that you have to make.''
 Mr. Fosdick said the village would hold the rest of its Independence Day celebration, including its home- and business-decorating contest and two parades.
 Despite the scattered Fourth of July cancellations, the skies will be far from dark. In New York, Macy's has moved its annual fireworks show back to the Hudson River, and a majority of the displays in the surrounding suburbs will go on as planned. 
 And fireworks companies that put on shows for private parties and corporate events reported that there was still significant demand in the New York area for shows that cost $10,000 or more. The fact that the holiday falls on a Saturday this year, for the first time since 1998, has kept the demand for private displays strong, said M. Philip Butler, a vice president at Fireworks by Grucci on Long Island. 
 Still, many communities wonder if they could find less costly ways to celebrate. The American Pyrotechnics Association does not keep track of how many of the nation's 14,000 or so permitted Fourth of July displays have been scuttled this year, but companies that produce the events say there has been some drop-off. 
 Dozens of communities have canceled their displays; barring the emergence of last-minute donors, there will be no shows in places including Mesa, Ariz.; Colorado Springs; Carrollton, Tex.; Blue Springs, Mo.; and Lowell, Mass. More than 100 others started fund-raisers to underwrite the shows; in La Jolla, Calif., for example, organizers created a Web site, www.savelajollafireworks.com, to solicit contributions. 
 To elected officials, deciding whether to press on with a show can be difficult. In many small municipalities, Fourth of July fireworks allow politicians to mingle before a backdrop of patriotism and civic pride. 
 Nunzio Santore, whose family has run Garden State Fireworks for four generations, said he received a call this year from a New Jersey official who was agonizing over how to pay for a display. Finally, Mr. Santore said, the official told him: ''It's my first term in office. I'm going to do whatever I have to do to keep it going.'' 
 But in Rahway, where six municipal workers will be laid off on July 1, city officials decided that it would be insensitive to spend more than $20,000 on fireworks, so there will be no display this year. Karen Henderson, who lives in Rahway, said she was disappointed but understood why the show had been canceled.
 ''People are losing their jobs, so it doesn't feel right to be spending so much on a party,'' she said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US INDEPENDENCE DAY (94%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MAYORS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); HOLIDAY & VACATION LEAVE (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); SPONSORSHIP (75%); HOLIDAY & VACATION PAY (71%); FUNDRAISING (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2009



610 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1271 words

HEADLINE: STATES TURNING TO LAST RESORTS IN BUDGET CRISIS

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH

 BODY:
In Hawaii, state employees are bracing for furloughs of three days a month over the next two years, the equivalent of a 14 percent pay cut. In Idaho, lawmakers reduced aid to public schools for the first time in recent memory, forcing pay cuts for teachers.
 And in California, where a $24 billion deficit for the coming fiscal year is the nation's worst, Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger has proposed releasing thousands of prisoners early and closing more than 200 state parks.
 Meanwhile, Maine is adding taxes on candy and ski tickets, Wisconsin on oil companies, and Kentucky on alcohol and cellphone ring tones.
 With state revenues in a free fall and the economy choked by the worst recession in 60 years, governors and legislatures are approving program cuts, layoffs and, to a smaller degree, tax increases that were previously unthinkable. 
 All but four states must have new budgets in place less than two weeks from now -- by July 1, the start of their fiscal year. But most are already predicting shortfalls as tax collections shrink, unemployment rises and the stock market remains in turmoil.
 ''These are some of the worst numbers we have ever seen,'' said Scott D. Pattison, executive director of the National Association of State Budget Officers, adding that the federal stimulus money that began flowing this spring was the only thing preventing widespread paralysis, particularly in the areas of education and health care. ''If we didn't have those funds, I think we'd have an incredible number of states just really unsure of how they were going to get a new budget out.'' 
 The states where the fiscal year does not end June 30 are Alabama, Michigan, New York and Texas. 
 Even with the stimulus funds, political leaders in at least 19 states are still struggling to negotiate budgets, which has incited more than the usual drama and spite. Governors and legislators of the same party are finding themselves at bitter odds: in Arizona, Gov. Jan Brewer, a Republican, sued the Republican-controlled Legislature earlier this month after it refused to send her its budget plan in hopes that she would run out of time to veto it. 
 In Illinois, the Democratic-led legislature is fighting a plan by Gov. Patrick J. Quinn, also a Democrat, to balance the new budget by raising income taxes. And in Massachusetts, Gov. Deval Patrick, a Democrat, has threatened to veto a 25 percent increase in the state sales tax that Democratic legislative leaders say is crucial to help close a $1.5 billion deficit in the new fiscal year. 
 ''Legislators have never dealt with a recession as precipitous and rapid as this one,'' said Susan K. Urahn, managing director of the Pew Center on the States. ''They're faced with some of the toughest decisions legislators ever have to make, for both political and economic reasons, so it's not surprising that the environment has become very tense.'' 
 In all, states will face a $121 billion budget gap in the coming fiscal year, according to a recent report by the National Conference of State Legislatures, compared with $102.4 billion for this fiscal year.
 The recession has also proved politically damaging for a number of governors, not least Jon Corzine of New Jersey, whose Republican opponent in this year's race for governor has tried to make inroads by blaming the state's economic woes on him. Mr. Schwarzenegger, who sailed into office on a wave of popularity in 2003, will leave in 2011 -- barred by term limits from running again -- under the cloud of the nation's worst budget crisis. And the bleak economy has played a major role in the waning popularity of Gov. David A. Paterson of New York.
 Over all, personal income tax collections are down by about 6.6 percent compared with last year, according to a survey by Mr. Pattison's group and the National Governors Association. Sales tax collections are down by 3.2 percent, the survey found, and corporate income tax revenues by 15.2 percent. (Although New Jersey announced last week that a tax amnesty program had brought in an unexpected $400 million -- a windfall that caused lawmakers to reconsider some of the deeper cuts in a $28.6 billion budget they were set to approve in advance of the July 1 deadline.)
 As a result, governors have recommended increasing taxes and fees by some $24 billion for the coming fiscal year, the survey found. This is on top of more than $726 million they sought in new revenues this year.
 The proposals include increases in personal income tax rates -- Gov. Edward G. Rendell of Pennsylvania has proposed raising the state's income tax by more than 16 percent, to 3.57 percent from 3.07 percent, for three years -- and tax increases on myriad consumer goods. 
 ''They have done a fair amount of cutting and will probably do some more,'' said Ray Scheppach, executive director of the governors association. ''But as they look out over the next two or three years, they are also aware that when this federal money stops coming, there is going to be a cliff out there.''
 Raising revenues is the surest way to ensure financial stability after the stimulus money disappears, Mr. Scheppach added, saying, ''You're better off to take all the heat at once and do it in one package that gets you through the next two, three or four years.'' 
 While state general fund spending typically increases by about 6 percent a year, it is expected to decline by 2.2 percent for this fiscal year, Mr. Pattison said. The last year-to-year decline was in 1983, he said, on the heels of a national banking crisis. 
 The starkest crisis is playing out in California, where lawmakers are scrambling to close the $24 billion gap after voters rejected ballot measures last month that would have increased taxes, borrowed money and reapportioned state funds. 
 Democratic legislative leaders last week offered alternatives to Mr. Schwarzenegger's recommended cuts, including levying a 9.9 percent tax on oil extracted in the state and increasing the cigarette tax to $2.37 a pack, from 87 cents. But Mr. Schwarzenegger has vowed to veto any budget that includes new taxes, setting the stage for an ugly battle as the clock ticks toward the deadline. 
 ''We still don't know how bad it will be,'' Ms. Urahn said. ''The story is yet to be told, because in the next couple of weeks we will see some of the states with the biggest gaps have to wrestle this thing to the ground and make the tough decisions they've all been dreading.'' 
 In one preview, Gov. Tim Pawlenty of Minnesota, a Republican, said last week that he would unilaterally cut a total of $2.7 billion from nearly all government agencies and programs that get money from the state, after he and Democratic legislative leaders failed to agree on how to balance the budget. 
 In an example of the countless small but painful cuts taking place, Illinois announced last week that it would temporarily stop paying about $15 million a year for about 10,000 funerals for the poor. Oklahoma is cutting back hours at museums and historical sites, Washington is laying off thousands of teachers, and New Hampshire wants to sell 27 state parks. 
 Nor will the pain end this year, Ms. Urahn said, even if the recession ends, as some economists have predicted. Unemployment could keep climbing through 2010, she said, continuing to hurt tax collections and increasing the demand for Medicaid, one of states' most burdensome expenses. 
 ''Stress on the Medicaid system tends to come later in a recession, and we have yet to see the depth of that,'' Ms. Urahn said. ''So you will see, for the next couple years at least, states really struggling with this.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: June 23, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Monday about program cuts and tax increases in many states misstated Maine's plans for new taxes. Although it is adding a tax on candy, it is not doing so on ski tickets.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: How States Are Coping: State general fund spending in 2009 decreased for the first time since 1983 and is expected to decline in 2010.
 Budget-cutting strategies: States are using a variety of methods to fill budget gaps, with more than half relying on targeted cuts rather than across-the board cuts.(Source: ''The Fiscal Survey of States,'' National Association of State Budget Officers and the National Governors Association)(A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); VETO (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (77%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); TAX INCREASES (75%); SALES TAX (75%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (73%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (70%); SKIING (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%)

PERSON: DEVAL PATRICK (58%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (58%); PAT QUINN (56%); JAN BREWER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (92%); IDAHO, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2009



611 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
9 P.M. (History) THE CRUMBLING OF AMERICA The Romans had their roads and aqueducts; the Mayans, their pyramids and palaces. But what happens when a great civilization neglects its infrastructure? This two-hour report investigates the deterioration of highways, tunnels, dams, levees, ports and pipelines in the United States, including more than 70,000 bridges rated as structurally deficient and 25,000 miles of commercial waterways and locks that have exceeded their 50-year design life. One warning: the 2007 collapse of the Interstate 35W Bridge, above, in Minneapolis. One segment looks at structures on a ''worst of'' list. Another introduces technologies and detection techniques to prevent catastrophes.
 7 A.M. (CBS) THE EARLY SHOW Reba Toney talks about her book, ''The Rating Game: The Foolproof Formula for Finding Your Perfect Soul Mate''; also, the recession's effect on pets. 
 7 A.M. (NBC) TODAY A look at a two-week total-body turnaround; Peri Gilpin is a guest.
 8 P.M. (ABC Family) THE SECRET LIFE OF THE AMERICAN TEENAGER This Season 2 premiere finds Anne (Molly Ringwald) dealing with news of her own pregnancy while Amy (Shailene Woodley) adjusts to motherhood, and Ben (Ken Baumann) tries to figure out his place in her life now that Ricky (Daren Kagasoff) has taken on the role of father. Then tragedy strikes. In ''Make It or Break It,'' a new series, at 9, a group of Olympic hopefuls train for the gold.
 8 P.M. (ABC) THE BACHELORETTE Jillian determines which five men will have the privilege of taking her to their homes to meet their families. But first the eight remaining bachelors take a train ride through the mountains on the Rocky Mountaineer.
 9 P.M. (13, 49) HISTORY DETECTIVES In this Season 7 premiere Gwendolyn Wright, a professor of history at Columbia University, examines a ''PsychoPhone'' that Thomas Edison may have invented to record messages from the afterlife. Tukufu Zuberi, director of the Center for Africana Studies at the University of Pennsylvania, travels to Cat Island near Gulfport, Miss., to investigate a ''war dogs'' program during World War II. And Eduardo Pagan, a professor of American studies at Arizona State University, looks into a watch fob commemorating Pancho Villa's raid on a border town, Columbus, N.M.
 9 P.M. (National Geographic) IRAN AND THE WEST Former President Jimmy Carter and two former Iranian presidents, Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani and Mohammad Khatami, and their advisers talk about the United States-Iran relationship over the past 30 years, from the failed hostage-rescue attempt in 1980 to Iran's role in helping the United States take on the Taliban after 9/11 and the countries' nuclear disagreements.
 9 P.M. (Science) CHEAT SHEET The Science Channel continues its Space Week with this hourlong show, in which Michio Kaku, right, explains the five toughest questions about the universe in language that even science flunkies can presumably understand. In ''Exodus Earth,'' at 10, Basil Singer tries to figure out how astronauts can survive the atmosphere on Mars and concocts oxygen and fuel from Martian rock.
 9 P.M. (TLC) JON & KATE PLUS 8 The Gosselins make a big announcement.
 9 P.M. (TNT) THE CLOSER When Gabriel (Corey Reynolds) shoots a murder suspect and evidence contradicts his version of events, a force-investigation director (Mary McDonnell) arrives to look into matters. But Brenda (Kyra Sedgwick) has an investigation of her own under way. In ''Raising the Bar,'' at 10, Jerry (Mark-Paul Gosselaar) gets on the bad side of Judge Albert Farnsworth (John Michael Higgins) when he shows up late for court.
 10 P.M. (Showtime) WEEDS Nancy (Mary-Louise Parker) gets a new bodyguard. The rebel camp tires of Celia (Elizabeth Perkins) and her attitude. Silas (Hunter Parrish) and Doug (Kevin Nealon) try to open a medical-marijuana dispensary, and Nancy's older sister (Jennifer Jason Leigh) shows up.
 10 P.M. (Logo) GIMME SUGAR In Season 2 of this reality show five hard-partying lesbian and bisexual friends hit the club scene in Miami.
 10:30 P.M. (Showtime) NURSE JACKIE A dying man (Eli Wallach) refuses treatment in the emergency room, saying all he needs is his wife's chicken soup. At home Jackie (Edie Falco) and Kevin (Dominic Fumusa) deal with the increasingly nervous behavior of 10-year-old Grace (Ruby Jerins). KATHRYN SHATTUCK 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (89%); HISTORY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); FAMILY (75%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (72%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (72%); TRAINS (69%); DOGS (69%); MOUNTAINS (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (66%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (66%); WORLD WAR II (60%); TALIBAN (60%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (50%)

PERSON: HASHEMI RAFSANJANI (50%); JIMMY CARTER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GULFPORT, MS, USA (52%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2009



612 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1166 words

HEADLINE: For Colleges Needing Cash, Summer's No Longer a Quiet Season

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO

 BODY:
Time was you could hurl a Frisbee clear across a college green in summer and be assured that you would not bop anyone on the head. If not exactly a ghost town, the typical campus was strangely still from June to August, offering administrators an opportunity to regroup and recharge.
 But in recent years, empty campuses have been recognized as potential cash cows, and colleges have tried to fill those once-sleepy weeks with enrichment workshops, for-credit courses, day camps, conferences, private parties and film shoots. That is especially true this summer, as financially battered schools seek to wring all the value they can from venerable halls and shiny athletic centers.
 At the Richard Stockton College of New Jersey in Pomona, administrators offered discounts of up to 20 percent on tuition for summer courses, advertising heavily in local media. The college also reeled in two new summer camps, a general-interest day camp and a wrestling camp, that will pay for the privilege of using the facilities. 
 ''The overall landscape now is one in which you've got to become leaner and meaner and more competitive, and that means trying to find more sources of revenue,'' said Tim Kelly, a college spokesman. ''Summer is an important piece of the puzzle.''
 There is a marketing upside, too, in maintaining a busy campus in summer, administrators say. On campus tours, prospective students and their parents respond better to a vibrant environment. And a high school student who takes, say, a three-week screenwriting workshop might remember that institution when applying to college.
 But while colleges may be working harder to derive revenue from campuses this summer, some are running headlong into the weakened economy. For years, Vassar College in Poughkeepsie, N.Y., has held or run more than 20 athletic, cultural and academic programs and camps in summer. This year, a half-dozen have folded, citing falling enrollments.
 In a usual year, Vassar would reap $400,000 to $500,000 from all the summer activity, but this year the yield will range from $300,000 to $350,000. ''That's a reality we're all facing,'' said Susan DeKrey, a college spokeswoman. ''Families and individuals are looking at what they can afford to spend on extra things.''
 Some colleges are using the economic downturn as a sort of muse, developing summer workshops geared specifically to downsized workers. Hofstra University on Long Island, for instance, created a class on resume-writing and interviewing skills.
 Hofstra also sought to deflect any economic impact on its sports camps by dispatching coaches, armed with brochures, to high school sporting events. ''It was much more intensive this year,'' Rich Guardino, vice president for business development at Hofstra, said of the marketing campaign. ''We had an early-registration discount and offered some payment plans, which we haven't done in the past.'' 
 Monmouth University in West Long Branch, N.J., pitched its summer-session graduate courses to those switching fields or bolstering resumes. ''We've emphasized our summer school a lot more as a way to catch up, get ahead, stay on track,'' said Mary Anne Nagy, vice president for student services at Monmouth. ''In times of recession, higher education can actually benefit because people are retooling.''
 It's working: enrollment in graduate courses has jumped 20 percent this summer over last. Summer courses are just the tip of the ivory tower at Monmouth, however. This weekend alone, the university leased parts of the campus to a bridal-wear catalog for a photo shoot, a local hospital for an annual carnival and a father-son basketball clinic.
 Several outside camps, including one devoted to cheerleading and another to yearbooks, as well as the college's own sports camps, are returning this summer. Also back is a Police Explorer training program, a boot camp for teenagers, as Ms. Nagy put it. (''The high school students in the police camp also learn that we have a criminal justice program,'' she said.)
 But the university is most excited about two new revenue sources. An international school nurses conference will bring more than 100 nurses in late July, from as far away as Japan, along with about $30,000 in income. And Fort Monmouth, the nearby Army post, is renting some 30 university-owned apartments for its interns, for an additional $50,000. 
 All told, the university expects to make $600,000 to $800,000 from outside groups this summer. ''If we didn't have that revenue, then we couldn't do certain things and we might not be able to keep tuition down,'' Ms. Nagy said. 
 Some colleges have layered on new programs for high school students, tapping into the interest in constructing college resumes. Purchase College in Westchester County already had visual arts and jazz institutes for teenagers, with two- and four-week sessions. It now boasts several more: programs in photography, filmmaking, journalism, theater and Shakespeare.
 ''Any college worth its salt is constantly looking for new program development,'' said Christine L. Persico, dean of the School of Liberal Studies and Continuing Education. ''But the need for revenue is greater than ever, so the pressure might be a little bit more.''
 Four years ago, Sarah Lawrence College in Westchester received orders from its board of trustees to make more hay of summer. Like Purchase College, it created workshops for high school students. But being residential in nature, the three-week programs have attracted teenagers from around the country for instruction in writing, visual arts and screenwriting.
 One, called Summer in the City, involves faculty-led excursions to New York City, with the focus on history one week, scientific research the next and architecture the third. ''We're in the third year of most of them, and from the first year to the second we doubled,'' said Micheal W. Rengers, the college's vice president for operations. ''This year we're holding our own.''
 As Sarah Lawrence waits for the economy to rebound, administrators are grateful when something falls from the sky, as happened recently when a new sports camp was looking for a venue. ''We'll make just around $50,000,'' Mr. Rengers said of the deal for a six-week session. 
 The single biggest tenant at Manhattanville College in Purchase, N.Y., is a seven-week sports camp that pays more than $300,000. But the other uses -- a summer institute for gifted children, an adult theater camp, a music festival and a swim program -- add up. It certainly did not hurt that last week HBO shot scenes for a Martin Scorsese series in the college's signature 1888 building, Reid Castle. (Ka-ching: $25,000.)
 ''If you add up all our summer programs, it's probably in the $750,000 range,'' said Greg Palmer, the college's vice president of operations. ''It's not an incredible amount of money, and I'm sure a lot of bigger colleges do a lot more. But our endowment has taken a hit like most schools', and for us it's very important.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A bridal catalog paid Monmouth University in West Long Branch, N.J., to stage a photo shoot. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARC STEINER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (83%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); DRAMA LITERATURE (75%); HIGH SCHOOLS (75%); SPORTS CAMPS & SCHOOLS (75%); FAMILY (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (74%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (74%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (73%); SPORTS (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION (72%); WRESTLING (69%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (65%)

ORGANIZATION: MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2009



613 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM BLOGGING AT NYTIMES.COM/CITYROOM.; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 507 words

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUGHNEY

 BODY:
NEW YORK ON LESS:
 In Norwood, Litter
 And Graffiti Grow
 It's hard not to spot signs of the withering economy in the 204th Street and Bainbridge Avenue shopping district in the Norwood section of the Bronx. Graffiti marks storefront after storefront, trash lingers along the street, more shops have been closed. 
 Roberto Garcia, senior director of community relations for the Montefiore Medical Center and director of economic development for the hospital's nonprofit housing affiliate, the Mosholu Preservation Corporation, said the latest signs were a shift from the progress of recent years. 
 Mr. Garcia, who has spent the last four years helping to spruce up five Norwood shopping districts, points out that the 204th Street and Bainbridge Avenue district had made some strides: Several new bank branches had opened, and the 204th Street Bainbridge Merchants Association had been revived.
 But he notes that the area has been hurt more by the recession than any other business district he has seen in the Bronx. As Mr. Garcia walks a sloping stretch of Bainbridge Avenue, he points out a shuttered Irish bar and a closed Spanish restaurant that now are covered in graffiti and littered with trash. 
 Many shop owners just don't have the money to paint over the graffiti, Mr. Garcia says, and there are fewer government programs they can turn to. Plans to create a business improvement district or to demand more from the Merchants Association have been shelved.
 Mr. Garcia recently answered some questions about the area and its future.
 Q. Why are so many businesses struggling when the neighborhood made so many strides in recent years?
 A. The economy has really hurt that process. Business has dropped for many of these businesses -- 25, 30, 40 percent. They just don't have the extra money to spend. The economy is really putting a damper on the progression.
 Q. Why can't you get businesses to mobilize and address some of these problems?
 A. It's extremely difficult in these tough economic times to have people organize and do additional cleanup efforts. Trying to form a BID, it's going to be difficult, though it may alleviate some of these problems. It would involve getting the property owners to tax themselves.
 Q. What is it going to take for the neighborhood to turn around?
 A. The recession has to end, and government officials need to address these issues. It's going to take the immediate support of local elected officials to provide seed capital. It's going to take loans; it's going to take some infrastructure improvements. They need a little additional funding so they can pay their rent, they can pay their suppliers.
 CHRISTINE HAUGHNEY SLIDESHOW: Online: A slide show from Bainbridge Avenue.
 TAKING
 QUESTIONS
 This week, Sarah Grimke Aucoin, the director of the Urban Park Rangers, a division of the New York City Department of Parks and Recreation, will be responding to readers about where to find wildlife in the city. Submit questions online; the first set of answers will appear Wednesday on the blog.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Crossing Bainbridge. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DECHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RECESSION (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (77%); RESTAURANTS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); CITY LIFE (64%); CITY GOVERNMENT (64%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (60%); BANK BRANCHES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2009



614 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ONLINE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 60 words

 BODY:
NEW YORK ON LESS As merchants suffer, there is less money for maintenance and cleanup in the Norwood section of the Bronx. A slide show, graphic and question-and-answer with Roberto Garcia, senior director of community relations for the Montefiore Medical Center and director of economic development for the Mosholu Preservation Corporation.
 nytimes.com/cityroom 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (80%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (89%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2009



615 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: Panel Might Revise Health-Care Bill

BYLINE: By DERRICK HENRY

 BODY:
Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, the top Republican on the Senate Finance Committee, said on Sunday that the panel would consider revisiting its version of health-care legislation to gain more support. 
 An overhaul of the nation's health-care system was part of President Obama's campaign pledge to expand coverage to those who do not have health insurance while lowering costs in general. But an initial price tag for the Senate Finance Committee's proposal came to $1.6 trillion, according to the Congressional Budget Office. That figure caused enough consternation that the chairman, Senator Max Baucus of Montana, postponed a drafting session that was to have begun this week. 
 ''So we're in the position of dialing down some of our expectations to get the costs down so that it's affordable,'' Mr. Grassley said on CNN's ''State of the Union,'' ''and most importantly, so that it's paid for because we can't go to the point where we are now of not paying for something when we have trillions of dollars of debt.'' 
 The Finance Committee's plan is expected to attract more bipartisan support than legislation being written by the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee, chaired by Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut. The proposal by Mr. Dodd's committee was estimated to cost $1 trillion over 10 years but would only increase the number of insured Americans by 16 million.
 Senator Lindsey Graham, a Republican of South Carolina who appeared on ABC's ''This Week,'' said estimates on overhauling health care were ''a death blow to a government-run health plan.''
 Dianne Feinstein of California joined Republicans in voicing reservations. Ms. Feinstein, who appeared on ''State of the Union,'' said that controlling the cost of a new health-care system ''is a very major and difficult subject.''
 Ms. Feinstein also said that Mr. Obama might not have the votes in the Senate to pass his legislation. ''I think there's a lot of concern in the Democratic caucus,'' she said. 
 Senator Richard Lugar, Republican of Indiana, appearing with Ms. Feinstein, said that overhauling the health care system should be done slowly and not this year, as Mr. Obama has insisted. ''I think it should be incremental steps,'' Mr. Lugar said. Mr. Lugar also suggested a period of study to find and consider alternatives. 
 Ms. Feinstein also suggested that the results of Mr. Obama's efforts to repair the economy and overhaul the financial-regulatory system should be measured before taking on health care. 
 ''What all of the impact of this is not yet known,'' Ms. Feinstein said. 
 Ms. Feinstein has threatened to vote against Mr. Obama's health care bill if it draws Medicare funds from high-cost areas like California to low-cost areas of the country. Ms. Feinstein noted that California's population is greater than that of 21 states and the District of Columbia combined. 
 A New York Times/CBS News poll released on Saturday found that Americans overwhelmingly support substantial changes to the health care system and are strongly behind one of the most contentious proposals Congress is considering, a government-run insurance plan to compete with private insurers.
 The national telephone survey, which was conducted from June 12 to 16, found that 72 percent of those questioned supported a government-administered insurance plan -- something like Medicare for those under 65 -- that would compete for customers with private insurers. Twenty percent said they were opposed.
 Republicans in Congress have fiercely criticized the proposal as an unneeded expansion of government that might evolve into a system of nationalized health coverage and lead to the rationing of care.
 But the cost of the legislation seems to bedevil lawmakers the most. Senator John McCain, who is on the health committee with Mr. Dodd, also pointed to costs as a problem on CBS's ''Face the Nation.'' 
 ''You do the math, it comes up to $3 trillion,'' said Mr. McCain, who obtained the number by tripling the figure provided by the Congressional Budget Office to cover one third of the nearly 50 million uninsured Americans. ''And so far, we have no proposal for having to pay for it.''
 Mr. Grassley, on the Finance Committee, said he anticipated paying for the bill ''through some savings and Medicare, and from some increases in revenue.''
 Mr. Dodd said he was ready for the difficulty in establishing a national health-care system.
 ''If this were easy, it would have been done decades ago,'' Mr. Dodd said on ''This Week.'' ''We're not done with this at all.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (91%); HEALTH CARE LAW (91%); HEALTH CARE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); CAUCUSES (79%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (57%)

PERSON: CHUCK GRASSLEY (89%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); DIANNE FEINSTEIN (79%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (59%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (59%); MAX BAUCUS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2009



616 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 407 words

HEADLINE: The Right Choice Downtown

 BODY:
Imagine two options for using a pot of money for New York area residents: One, the funds could be used to repair the Lincoln Tunnel, to renovate parts of city airports and to start turning a grim Penn Station into a real gateway to the city. Or, those billions could be used to build more private office space. 
 That is essentially the choice facing the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, and Mayor Michael Bloomberg and Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver are pressuring the authority to go in the wrong direction. They want the money for a gigantic office tower at the World Trade Center site.
 Authority officials have a civic obligation to pay for and maintain the area's transportation facilities, not to gamble on the real estate market in Lower Manhattan. Gov. David Paterson of New York and Gov. Jon Corzine of New Jersey, who oversee the Port Authority, should make certain that its money follows that mandate. 
 Mr. Bloomberg of all people should recognize that real estate is not the best investment for a public agency. But he and Mr. Silver want the authority to provide financing for two more skyscrapers at the site to be developed by Larry Silverstein, who leased the original World Trade Center. Mr. Silverstein wants the authority's funds primarily because tenants and private money to build offices are almost impossible to find in this recession. 
 That looks like another good deal for Mr. Silverstein, especially since the authority has already agreed to help finance one of these towers at the site. One is enough. Mr. Silverstein has already received billions of dollars in public aid and insurance money for rebuilding after the attacks on the trade center.
 A better solution would be for Mr. Silverstein to find an anchor tenant and put up enough of his own equity at a time when he judges that the market is ready for it. The last thing the city and the authority need are empty buildings paid for with public money.
 Insiders at the Port Authority fear that if Mr. Silverstein got billions of dollars of taxpayer money, the authority could slide into real financial trouble. It could become another Metropolitan Transportation Authority, which faced a near-calamity earlier this spring and had to be bailed out at the last minute by state lawmakers. It is time for the Port Authority to stand firm and let Mr. Silverstein pay for his extra tower the old-fashioned way -- that is, without more public money.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); PORT AUTHORITIES (89%); AIRPORTS (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%)

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (72%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (72%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (73%); DAVID PATERSON (58%); JON CORZINE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2009



617 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1166 words

HEADLINE: California's Solution to $24 Billion Budget Gap Is Going to Bring Some Pain

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
There are not a multitude of ways to close a $24 billion state budget gap, but in California, the answer is probably going to come down to who gets hurt the most. 
 While Democrats struggle to preserve programs for the state's neediest residents through one-time accounting maneuvers and by passing some of the pain to smokers and oil companies through fees and taxes, Republicans are holding the line on new taxes and trying to force large cuts that will have an effect on policies like health care for children in poor families and the early release of thousands of prisoners. 
 Lawmakers passed a budget for both 2009 and 2010 in February, but the legislation, which covered 17 months' worth of spending, was dependent on the passage of several ballot propositions that voters overwhelmingly sank in May. As a result, the state's budget gap expanded. 
 In response, Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger threatened to allow the government to come to a ''grinding halt,'' rather than authorize more borrowing to cover shortfalls, and proposed $16 billion in cuts. Those cuts would largely be carried out through the state's programs for the poor: the Healthy Family Program, the health insurance program that covers more than 900,000 children; the main welfare program, known as CalWorks, which provides temporary financial assistance to poor families; and Cal Grants, a college financial aid program. 
 Mr. Schwarzenegger also seeks $750 million in cuts to prisons, the slashing of the budgets for state parks and other agencies and a 5 percent pay cut for state workers. And he has proposed a plan to borrow $2 billion from local governments, which has enraged local leaders. Republican lawmakers do not care for taking money from local governments, nor do they like the prison plan in its entirety, because it would include the early release of some prisoners; they are otherwise on board with the governor on this go-round.
 Democratic legislators countered with a plan still thick with cuts -- $11 billion -- to social programs but proposed several accounting maneuvers that would push the deficits into the future to compensate for less-severe reductions to the social programs. For example, the state would push workers' last paychecks of this fiscal year, ending June 30, by one day into the next fiscal year, saving $1 billion. Another proposal calls for withholding 3 percent taxes from independent contractors, who lawmakers say often fail to pay taxes, putting $2 billion back in the coffers. 
 The Democratic caucus also rejected borrowing from localities and called for about $2 billion in tax increases: a 9.9 percent levy on oil extracted in the state, a $1.50-per-pack tobacco tax and a $15 increase for car registrations earmarked for state parks. 
 Republican lawmakers and the governor have said they will reject all tax increases; such increases were used in the last budget negotiations, which extracted a huge political price for the few Republican lawmakers who supported the legislation, with some calls for their recalls by some constituents. The rejection of the ballot initiatives last month are widely viewed in Sacramento as a rejection of tax increases, leaving the Democrats hamstrung. 
 So that leaves Plan C, which will quite likely be very close to what the governor has called for, only less so. The amount of tax increases the Democrats proposed are almost equal to the amount the governor wants to borrow from local governments.
 While the Democrats cannot pass a tax increase without the Republicans' support (a two-thirds legislative vote is required for that), it could lower the state's gasoline excise tax and then raise the taxes on cigarettes and oil extraction, thus calling them ''fee hikes,'' which can be passed by a simple majority. But the governor could strike that with a veto. Further, the 5 percent pay cut to state workers will quite likely land in the mix, as will some of the lawmakers' accounting moves. 
 California has been hampered by steep drops in tax revenues and by high unemployment, which rose to 11.5 percent on Friday. The state controller, John Chiang, has warned that California will not have enough cash to pay its bills if there is no new budget agreement by late July. Further, both Standard & Poor's and Moody's Investor Service last week placed the state on a credit watch list; it already has the lowest credit rating of any state. 
 California normally seeks bank-guaranteed short-term notes to pay its bills in the summer until tax revenue flows in. Because of the tightening of credit, the state sought a guarantee from the Obama administration on $5.5 billion in notes, but that request was rejected. 
 Obama administration officials have said that California should solve its own problems, and suggested it has no legal authority to back its bonds. But because local governments depend on cash from the state to make their debt payments, the threat of their defaulting could upset the country's broader municipal bond market. 
 ''This is something the Federal Reserve would be concerned about,'' said Daniel J. B. Mitchell, a professor emeritus at the School of Public Affairs at the University of California, Los Angeles, ''because there could be ripple effects outside California. In short, the Obama folks would do best to stop averting their eyes and instead impose some adult supervision.'' 
 Huge cuts to social programs, even at the levels the Democrats have suggested, may signal where California spending priorities will be for years. ''All of this against a backdrop of economic uncertainty, scarcity and increasing doubt about what a public good is,'' said Bruce Cain, a political scientist at the University of California, Berkeley, ''and whether things that we used to think of as public goods, like higher ed, should really be privatized because it mainly enhances the personal income of those who attend.''
 The budget mess has also set the stage for broader budget discussions. The respected California Commission on the 21st Century Economy, is preparing a large-scale tax system overhaul to propose to the governor and lawmakers. It is anticipated to suggest, among other things, the abolishing of corporate income taxes and state sales taxes in favor of a tax program like the value-added taxes common in Europe. 
 Political posturing infused the Capitol last week, with the governor and the Legislature decrying one another. Darrell Steinberg, the Senate president pro tem, sent Mr. Schwarzenegger a package of mushrooms in response to the governor's saying the Legislature was ''hallucinating'' with its budget plan; the governor sent Mr. Steinberg a sculpture of a bull testicle, suggesting something like backbone, only not quite, would be needed to make tough cuts. 
 Back in the real world, where libraries are laying off workers, parks are preparing to close and parents are explaining to sobbing 5-year-olds why their beloved teachers will not be back next year, residents await the final cuts. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: WELFARE: Carolina Fuentes, with daughter Katherine, at the Sacramento County welfare office, which is likely to feel the cut. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICH PEDRONCELLI/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
EDUCATION: Students at the University of California, Los Angeles, after the state's voters turned down budget measures. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID McNEW/GETTY IMAGES)
HEALTH CARE: Patients marched in early June to protest Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger's proposed budget cuts to AIDS services. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID McNEW/GETTY IMAGES)
 Mr. Schwarzenegger saying this month that he would veto any budget bill that included new taxes beyond what he had proposed. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICH PEDRONCELLI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); FAMILY (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CAUCUSES (77%); FAMILY SERVICES (77%); STATE PARKS (77%); SMOKING (76%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (76%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (75%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (75%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); REFERENDUMS (73%); POLITICS (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (70%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (65%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (64%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (59%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2009



618 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; OUR TOWNS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: When Fear And Fury Drive Gun Sales

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME. 
E-mail: peappl@nytimes.com

DATELINE: BELLEVILLE, N.J. 

 BODY:
 At the Bullet Hole, an Essex County gun store, and at Gun for Hire,across the street, where Anthony Colandro offers courses in firearm use, martial arts and personal safety, it's the best of times and the worst of times.
 Worst of times? Just ask Manny Cerca, who for the past 27 years has run the Bullet Hole, a family-owned shop and firing range about five miles from Newark. Inside, there are deer heads on the walls, more than 300 handguns for sale and the pop of pistols from the firing range. Outside is a patriotic and Second Amendment tableau -- flags, Washington, Jefferson, Teddy Roosevelt and pheasant hunters on the pebbled concrete exterior. 
 Mr. Cerca is less impressed with today's Democrats.
 ''Their agenda is to toughen the gun laws to the point that it's going to be nearly impossible for the average citizen to buy a gun for recreational target purposes or hunting or so on and so forth,'' he said. ''Whatever else they say is just sweetening their little ultimate agenda.''
 Best of times? Well, the gun sales and the training business may be the only things still prospering. Last year, Mr. Colandro sold two gift certificates for Father's Day. This year, he sold 17. 
 Gun dealers across the nation have reported robust sales since Barack Obama's election. In New Jersey, applications for pistol permits have soared -- to roughly double last year's totals, according to The Star-Ledger of Newark. There's a shortage of ammunition, and many types are almost unavailable. The Bullet Hole limits ammunition sales to two boxes a customer for the firing range and one if you're taking it home.
 ''It's the full spectrum -- financial people who have come across the pond from Manhattan and people who pump gas for a living,'' said Mr. Colandro, who tools around in a Dodge Ram pickup with his ''Gun for Hire'' logo, the lowercase ''i'' looking like a fallen figure with blood pooling around the dot. 
 ''I don't think it's so much Obama,'' he added. ''It's the economic meltdown that scared the heck out of people. You have Hillary Clinton in government, and people associate her with the assault-weapons ban. Look what happened after Katrina and the L.A. riots. So you've got ammunition shortages and a lot of people are buying because they're worried about confiscation.''
 THE shoppers at the Bullet Hole, which offers heavy-duty wares by Glock, Smith & Wesson and other gunmakers and fashionably pink 9-millimeter, .22 and .38 women's specials, have varied motives. Vito Garofalo, a 36-year-old longshoreman who works in Bayonne, recently moved to New Jersey from Staten Island, so he figured now was the time to get that 9-millimeter SIG Sauer pistol. He's not worried about anyone confiscating guns, but thinks it might become tougher to purchase handguns, so he might as well get his now.
 Michele Ingram of Lyndhurst, N.J., says she's not expecting any massive crackdown on gun owners and thinks it's fine if other states are forced to mandate tougher background checks like the ones in New Jersey.
 ''I think that's a good thing. Same with banning AK-47 and those kind of terroristic weapons,'' she said. ''That's what they should be concerned about. Someone knocking on my door saying, 'We're here for your pistol?' I guess I'll believe it when it happens.''
 It mostly sounds reasonably benign, except when it doesn't.
 ''He has his dish full right now,'' Mr. Cerca said about Mr. Obama. ''He has no time for gun laws. If he starts screwing around with gun laws, I think the American people are going to flip out. And they're going to go to Pennsylvania Avenue. And they're going to line them up on Pennsylvania Avenue, every Congressional person there. And they're going to shoot every other one. 
 ''And who's left standing? They're going to send them back in there again and say, 'We're going to line you up and see what you do for the American people in the next 30 days.' I'm serious when I tell you this.''
 Two college students, Ross Innocenti, in a Ron Paul T-shirt, and Jeremy Penino, also think Mr. Obama has more pressing issues than guns. As for the fury from gun sellers and owners, Mr. Penino seems a bit skeptical.
 ''You've got all these people using this as an excuse to stock up,'' he said. ''It kind of feeds on itself. Right now, with the Democrats in office, the gun industry is booming. Maybe they realize they're better off that way. Obama's the best thing they have going for them.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FIREARMS (92%); GUN CONTROL (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (86%); SPORTING GOODS STORES (78%); MARTIAL ARTS (78%); SPORT HUNTING (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); RIOTS (73%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (62%)

COMPANY: SMITH & WESSON CORP (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS332994 SMALL ARMS, ORDNANCE & ORDNANCE ACCESSORIES MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3484 SMALL ARMS (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (73%); BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%) NEW JERSEY, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2009



619 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 788 words

HEADLINE: Tossing and Turning Over the Federal Deficit

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
President Obama calls the federal budget gap ''something that keeps me awake at night.'' He has two good reasons for sleeplessness.
 One is political. Republicans have spent months hammering Mr. Obama over red ink. Recent polls suggest that their arguments have gained traction.
 The other is substantive. Mr. Obama insists he will act to narrow the long-term deficit once the economy recovers. But neither the president nor his budget director can be sure that their principal strategies, which involve curbing rising health care costs, will work. 
 ''If we get that done, then we've gone a long way toward solving this problem,'' Mr. Obama said in an interview last week in the East Room of the White House. ''If we don't, we're going to continue to have problems.
 ''No matter what else I do, if health care is still going up 5, 6, 7, 8 percent a year -- if it's going up three times faster than wages -- then we are going to see a federal government that is broke.''
 To Most, No Clear Plan
 Americans maintain a nuanced view of the deficit problem. In an NBC News/Wall Street Journal survey last week, just 6 percent held the Obama administration responsible for a deficit expected to reach $1.8 trillion this year. Most faulted the Bush administration or Congress. 
 But that does not make them content with Mr. Obama. A New York Times/CBS News poll showed that 60 percent of Americans do not believe he has a clear plan to reduce the deficit. 
 ''I make no apologies for having acted short-term to deal with our recession,'' Mr. Obama said in last week's interview. He described industry bailouts and stimulus spending as necessary to avert a depression and reaffirmed that he wanted to end those ''extraordinary interventions'' as soon as possible -- but not now.
 Yet cautious signs of an economic recovery, which the White House takes as vindication, actually make the strategy harder to maintain. The poll showed that 52 percent of Americans want the government to reduce the deficit, while 41 percent wanted it to stimulate the economy, even at the risk of making the deficit larger.
 Peter R. Orszag, the White House budget director, said that taking action that ''is good in the short run'' in a weak economy ''is exactly the opposite of what's good over the medium and long run.'' He added, ''And so that argument, I guess, even though it is correct, is often difficult to communicate.''
 Difficult Solutions
 The difficulty of justification complicates the task of pushing a costly health care overhaul, especially since one of the administration's recommended sources of financing -- a curb on tax deductions for the affluent -- has faded under Congressional resistance. 
 It also increases pressure on the administration to prove that it will next fix the long-term insolvency of Social Security and Medicare.
 Potential solutions remain as obvious as they are politically difficult: raising the age of eligibility, increasing taxes and reducing benefits. ''I'm open to Social Security and how we can make some tweaks to that,'' Mr. Obama said.
 But the same actions, Mr. Orszag pointed out, would generate smaller savings for Medicare, which poses the larger fiscal threat. Postponing eligibility does not save Medicare much, for instance, because younger beneficiaries have less costly health problems.
 That leaves the administration dependent on savings from steps policy experts favor but no one can quantify. They include improved management of chronic diseases like diabetes, computerized records to coordinate care better, the promotion of cost-saving ''best practices,'' and an advisory commission to put Medicare cuts before Congress.
 ''So, can I tell you exactly what the impacts in 2050 will be from that set of changes? No,'' Mr. Orszag said. ''Do I think it's the most auspicious set of proposals that will move toward that future? Yes. And do we have an alternative? Not really.
 ''There is some ambiguity about it, precisely because we haven't moved to that kind of health care system. It's not going to be, here's the piece of paper and these are the steps. It's more like a diet that requires continual effort.''
 Skepticism about government diets runs deep among Americans and the foreign investors from whom Washington needs to keep borrowing trillions of dollars. ''In the worst-case scenario, you would see a collapse in investor confidence,'' Mr. Orszag said. ''I don't think we're anywhere near that point now.''
 Staving off that point would earn Mr. Orszag the prize his restless boss offered after the budget chief passed out propeller beanies at a White House meeting to poke fun at his nerdy reputation. ''The president told me he was going to bronze my propeller,'' Mr. Orszag said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); BAILOUTS (71%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (70%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (82%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (82%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); PETER ORSZAG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2009



620 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1203 words

HEADLINE: Laws Lag In Iraq, As Patience Wears Thin

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY WILLIAMS and SUADAD AL-SALHY

DATELINE: BAGHDAD 

 BODY:
Popular support for Iraq's democratic institutions is being undermined steadily by official corruption, yet the country has no comprehensive anticorruption law. 
 The country's economy is dependent almost entirely upon oil revenue, but because there is no single law regulating the industry, there is widespread confusion about investment, production and lines of authority. 
 And parts of northern Iraq continue to be beset by ethnic and sectarian violence that could engulf the rest of the country in a new wave of warfare, but there is little prospect of a political resolution being offered any time soon to settle competing claims in the disputed province of Kirkuk. 
 There is a growing concern that if the country's Parliament does not soon approve a series of critical legislative measures, Iraq's democratic experiment could erode as America pulls back, militarily and politically. By the end of this month, the United States is required to withdraw combat troops from Iraq's cities and, by the end of 2011, from the entire country. 
 Some legislation that could help strengthen and diversify the economy has been awaiting passage in Parliament for as long as three years, even as large numbers of Iraqis live in poverty and without adequate housing, health care and other basic needs. 
 ''If there was decent electricity and clean drinking water, there might be more patience from people,'' said Haider Ala Hamoudi, a professor at the University of Pittsburgh School of Law, who has advised the Iraqi government on legal issues. ''But on some of these laws, especially the ones that aren't controversial, Parliament has to do something or it risks losing legitimacy.'' 
 Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, who some members of Parliament blame for holding up several bills, has become so frustrated with the slow pace that he has began to lobby publicly for a switch to a presidential system, including holding direct elections for the nation's leader. 
 ''Parliament's system of democratic consensus is strange, conflicts with democracy and has many inherent problems,'' Mr. Maliki said recently. ''I think the presidential system is better than the parliamentary system if it will be accountable to the people.'' 
 Elected in 2005 as Iraq's first democratic national legislature, Parliament's inaugural class was entrusted with leading the nation to a firm footing as a representative democracy. 
 Instead, the body has become a source of frustration in the country and something of an embarrassment, even to some of its members. A member's salary and benefits -- worth about $125,000 annually -- are more than 20 times that of the average Iraqi. 
 Not only have its members been accused of being badly out of touch, but the body is far better known among Iraqis for listlessness and sectarian squabbling than for passing laws. 
 ''Parliament hasn't worked hard to send people the message that they are pushing the government to do its best to improve services,'' said Sami al-Atroshi, a Kurdish member of Parliament. ''Ordinary people have a right to feel negatively about us.'' 
 Among the crucial measures waiting to be enacted is the hydrocarbons law, also known as the gas and oil law. Without rules governing the extraction of its huge oil reserves, it has been difficult for Iraq to attract foreign investment to its petroleum industry, which accounts for 95 percent of foreign exchange earnings.
 Another critical bill would impose disclosure rules on political parties, which are currently allowed to accept donations of any size without reporting the source, leading to accusations that some of Iraq's leading Shiite political organizations are financed by Iran. 
 There is legislation that would grant additional powers to the country's president; provide for revenue sharing between the central government and the provinces; and possibly engineer a political solution for the disputed province of Kirkuk. Also languishing are statutes regarding foreign investment, the environment, elections, price fixing, political corruption, consumer protection, intellectual property rights, building codes and even the design of a new national flag. 
 The laws are so pivotal and the ethnic and sectarian issues surrounding them so intractable that some members say Parliament should not take them up at all. Others believe that most, if not all, of the contentious legislation should wait until after parliamentary elections in January. 
 ''Some of these things are bigger than the current Parliament and the current government can deal with,'' said Sheik Mohammed al-Hemedawi, a Shiite member of Parliament, who said some of the bills could spark new sectarian and ethnic violence. ''We will thank God if we are able to do some of it, but all of it together is too much for us.'' 
 American officials, who have sometimes stepped in to broker peace between warring blocs, had hoped Parliament could move the country to post-sectarianism. But all too often disputes culminate in walkouts by groups of Shiite or Sunnis or Kurdish lawmakers. 
 A chief problem is that members lack the confidence to make compromises in the national interest, and they instead focus on scoring points with their sectarian and ethnic bases. The result is often a political standstill. 
 Sessions frequently dissolve into desk-pounding protests, fistfights, resignations and even demands that the body vote to disband itself. For a time, even quorums were difficult to achieve because members spent months outside the country. The former speaker, Mahmoud al-Mashhadani, once described his colleagues as ''thugs, spies and lawmakers who never show up to Parliament.'' 
 In recent weeks, the new speaker, Ayad al-Sammaraie, from the Sunni Iraqi Islamic Party, has sought to animate Parliament by focusing on its role as a watchdog on the government of Mr. Maliki. 
 The body had a rare victory earlier this month when Falah al-Sudani, the country's trade minister, resigned after being summoned to Parliament to answer questions about allegations of corruption in his ministry. 
 Mr. Sammaraie recently acknowledged that Parliament had been too slow to pass legislation. He pinned some blame on the prime minister's office for abruptly withdrawing some bills, which has resulted in delays, but said much of the fault lay with Parliament itself. 
 ''We need to enact laws,'' he said. 
 For now, the aims remain modest. Umer al-Mashhadani, a spokesman for Sammaraie, said one goal was to restore live television broadcasts of Parliament's sessions. 
 The meetings have been broadcast on tape delay after officials decided that Parliament's arguments, charges and countercharges had dangerously roused sectarian tensions among the public. 
 Some members defended Parliament, saying that much of its work had been hampered by violence, including a 2007 suicide bomb attack in Parliament's cafeteria that killed eight people, including two members of Parliament. 
 ''We were working in a very tense period when we were routinely threatened when we left our houses,'' said Mr. Hemedawi, the Shiite member of Parliament. ''We weren't sure if we would come back home. But now, things are better. We are proud to have built the new Iraq.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: American soldiers, in action in Baghdad, are to leave all urban areas by the end of the month.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MOISES SAMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (90%); LOBBYING (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); POOR POPULATION (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); ELECTIONS (75%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (51%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); WAGES & SALARIES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH (54%)

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%) IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2009



621 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 388 words

HEADLINE: Opposed to Amnesty

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 In your editorial ''Immigration: It's Time'' (June 19), you tar the people who oppose so-called comprehensive immigration reform as ''anti-amnesty posses'' and ''nativist dead-enders.'' 
 I'm sure you can take any policy and find nogoodniks who support it, but the merits or lack thereof are what should be important to your readers. 
 Here's some of the thinking that motivates me to oppose amnesty. In 1971, John P. Holdren, now President Obama's head of the Office of Science and Technology Policy and in 1975 a professor of mine at Berkeley, and Paul R. Ehrlich of Stanford University introduced an equation showing that human impact on the environment equals population times consumption per capita times technology. 
 According to the Pew Research Center, the population of the United States, the country with the largest per capita consumption, will grow from the current 306 million to 438 million in 2050, and 82 percent of that growth will be due to mass immigration. The environmental implications of that population growth are staggering. Debate that.
 David C. Holzman Lexington, Mass., June 19, 2009
 To the Editor:
 I respectfully disagree with your editorial suggesting that President Obama should pursue immigration reform because most Americans agree that illegal immigrants should be given a ''path to citizenship.'' 
 I am an Obama supporter and am satisfied with the job he is doing since being inaugurated. But I disagree adamantly with granting legal status to those who have come to our country illegally.
 Your editorial totally ignores the unfairness the American taxpayer has endured for decades by subsidizing people who should not be in our country. Illegal immigrants drive down wages, burden local health systems and cause other ill-desired impacts to our economy and country.
 The quickest way for Mr. Obama to lose my support, and that of millions of others, is to grant legal status to illegal immigrants. Democrats should be cautious about assuming that all those opposed to amnesty are staunch conservatives.
 Millions of members of minority groups like me, as well as other moderates, strongly oppose granting amnesty to illegal immigrants while favoring deportation. We absolutely do not accept amnesty as ''desirable'' or ''inevitable.''
 Mark Wilson Omaha, Neb., June 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); AMNESTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); POPULATION GROWTH (73%); DEPORTATION (73%); CONSUMPTION (73%); SCIENCE POLICY (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY POLICY (57%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OMAHA, NE, USA (70%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2009



622 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 499 words

HEADLINE: Metropolitan Museum Completes Round of Layoffs

BYLINE: By RANDY KENNEDY

 BODY:
The Metropolitan Museum of Art said on Monday that it had completed a significant round of layoffs and voluntary retirements that it had warned in March would probably be necessary to contend with deep losses in its endowment. 
 Over the last few weeks, the museum laid off 74 employees and gave retirement packages to 95 others who chose to accept them, it said. Though the museum declined to identify or describe the specific roles of employees who have left, it said those departing included some members of the curatorial staff. 
 The museum earlier closed 15 of its satellite retail shops around the country and laid off 127 merchandising employees. The rest of the staff reduction was accomplished through attrition, with a hiring freeze over the last six months and many part-time contracts not being renewed.
 The overall cuts leave the museum staff 14 percent smaller, with about 2,200 full-time and part-time employees. The goal of the cuts had been a 10 percent reduction, but the number of employees who took voluntary retirement was much higher than the museum had expected.
 ''This realignment is a painful but unavoidable consequence of the global financial crisis,'' James R. Houghton, the museum's chairman, said in a written statement, adding that he believed the cuts ''placed the institution on a sure footing to manage its resources over the next 12 months'' without any serious cuts to programming.
 From last summer through Jan. 1, the most recent date for which figures are available, the museum's endowment -- one of the largest in the country for an art institution -- lost an estimated $800 million, or 28 percent of its value, down from a high of $2.9 billion. The endowment pays for about a third of the museum's operating budget, which was also dented by lower operating assistance from the city during the 2009 fiscal year.
 Mr. Houghton said the savings from the layoffs and retirements -- about $10 million -- would not completely fill the hole in the 2010 operating budget but would come close enough so that the public would probably ''discern no difference at all in the visitor experience it has been our privilege to offer to them here.'' Harold Holzer, a Met spokesman, said that program cuts might mean fewer concerts and lectures but that the museum's hours would remain the same, as would the number of galleries open.
 The museum joins many others across the country that are retrenching in similar or more extreme ways, cutting budgets, staff and the kinds of expansion plans that seemed ubiquitous only a couple of years ago. Among those that have imposed layoffs are the Cincinnati Art Museum, the St. Louis Art Museum, the Detroit Institute of Arts and the Indianapolis Museum of Art. The Guggenheim Museum announced last week that it would reduce its full-time staff by 8 percent through layoffs and positions left vacant.
 The Metropolitan's staff cuts are the first time since the fiscal crisis in the 1970s that the museum has resorted to layoffs. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (94%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); BUDGETS (89%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (78%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (77%); BUDGET CUTS (74%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (72%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); RETAILERS (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%) INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2009



623 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1201 words

HEADLINE: A New Runway? Not This Year

BYLINE: By LESLIE WAYNE

 BODY:
At the Cincinnati-Northern Kentucky International Airport, passengers are so scarce that a long-term parking lot will soon be turned into temporary housing for 900 horses attending equestrian games in the nearby bluegrass countryside. 
 It is an apt image -- going from air power to horse power -- for the troubles that airports are face these days: too few passengers, too few flights, too little revenue. And to deal with these setbacks they have come up with a solution: cut every capital project they can. 
 Terminals that were on the drawing boards are now off. Ditto for new gates, taxiways, roads and lights, as airport executives put a stop to billions of dollars in modernization projects that are now seen as unneeded and unaffordable. 
 ''It's a matter of waiting until passenger levels kick up again,'' said Sean Broderick, a spokesman for the American Association of Airport Executives. ''Airports are really stuck. They are cutting back like any other business. They are in survival mode while still trying to keep an eye on the future.'' 
 That future may not be pretty. With passenger traffic down as much as 20 percent at some airports, the effects of these cuts are not expected to be felt immediately. But once the economy and air travel rebound, passengers may well go back to feeling miserable about the crowded terminals, outdated parking lots and far-away rental car sites.
 Making matters worse is the reality that airport projects need a long lead time. It typically takes three to five years to build a new terminal, and 10 or more for a new runway. Projects shelved today probably cannot be built quickly when they're needed in the future. 
 ''There is a cost of doing nothing,'' said Deborah McElroy, executive vice president for policy at the Airports Council International-North America. ''It is in potential delays and inconvenience for passengers later on, and in increases in future operating costs.'' 
 Many of the projects being cut, airport executives say, seemed feasible -- and desirable -- as recently as last year. 
 At Oakland International Airport in California, for example, a $1 billion plan to build a third terminal was shelved last summer after ExpressJet withdrew from the market, Aloha Airlines went out of business and other carriers, especially Southwest Airlines, cut back on flights. Passenger traffic fell by 30 percent, creating a ripple effect at the airport's restaurants and car rental operations, which also generate cash. Food and beverage revenue dropped by 25 percent; car rental revenue by 20 percent. 
 Instead of building a new terminal, Oakland is doing a $200 million facelift of an existing terminal. Fewer passengers, officials say, makes it easier for workers to do the rehabilitation. 
 ''One has to look ahead 10 to 20 years,'' said Steve Grossman, the Oakland aviation director. ''But you have to be realistic about the short run. We could not afford to build the terminal and cover the carrying costs in the short run. We told that to the airlines and they thanked me. We've never seen anything like this decrease in traffic. Never.''
 Had Oakland gone ahead with the new terminal, Mr. Grossman said, ''our cost per passenger to the airlines would have been the highest in the country.'' 
 Air carriers, when hit with a drop in demand, can quickly adjust by reducing flights and cutting routes. But airports are different. Given their high fixed costs, any reduction in flight traffic can have a drastic effect. 
 Two-thirds of all airport revenue comes from nonairline sources: rental payments from retail concessionaires, parking fees, car rental surcharges and facilities charges that are included in the ticket fees. All of these are falling. 
 For instance, for the first time since it was enacted in 1991, a federal program that charges passengers up to $4.50 to pay for airport capital projects has collected less money than the year before. Collections generally come to around $3 billion a year, but they fell by $150 million in 2008, and further drops are expected. 
 Also declining are airline landing fees, which represent the other third of airport revenue and are based on the number of landings and aircraft weight. 
 A May 28 credit analysis of airports by Standard & Poor's said that ''airports have not experienced such bleak economic conditions in decades.''
 Even more, the S.& P. analysis points out, it is also difficult in this economy for airports to raise fees or issue new bonds. 
 ''Airport operators typically can adjust over time,'' said Kurt Forsgren, author of the S.& P. report. ''But what's new and different is that this may be a prolonged decline. There's a natural tension at airports between scaling back now because tomorrow is not good and planning for infrastructure for 10 to 15 years out.'' 
 Mr. Forsgren said that rescheduled projects would probably rise in cost. ''A terminal that may have cost $300 million today, might cost $550 million two years from now,'' he said. 
 That may turn out to be the case at Dulles International Airport outside Washington, where a $2 billion terminal replacement program was halted, as was a new $400 million car rental center. 
 ''As I look to the future, projects that were unscheduled will be rescheduled,'' said James E. Bennett, chief executive of the Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority. ''Once a project gets back, it might get rescoped or re-engineered and be different. Once we see demand back, we will see many of these projects come back into play.'' 
 Dulles was one of a dozen case studies in a Government Accountability Office report in April on commercial aviation. Of the dozen airports studied, 10 reported delaying or canceling capital projects. And many, the report said, ''remain airport priorities but cannot be completed for lack of available funding.'' 
 Tucson International Airport just refurbished its existing terminal but dropped a gate expansion program. Air traffic, which rose by more than 25 percent in the last four years, has ''plummeted,'' said Bonnie Allin, chief executive of the airport. Tucson will continue with some smaller projects, however. 
 Ms. Allin considers Tucson lucky -- the airport was not caught midproject when the downturn occurred. ''We're fortunate in terms of timing,'' said Ms. Allin. ''We're in a position of being able to put these projects on hold and, when the growth starts, we can act quickly.'' 
 About $300 million, including money for a ticket lobby overhaul, was cut from a $1 billion expansion at Orlando International Airport. Orlando traffic is down 10 percent, but Steve Gardner, the airport's executive director, is not worried: ''I'm cautiously optimistic it will turn around to whatever normal is.'' 
 One airport is moving differently. Kansas City International Airport has $161 million in new projects, taking advantage of a drop in construction costs. 
 ''We were getting fantastic bids,'' said Mark VanLoh, director of aviation. ''Prices were just getting better, so we decided to pull the trigger.''
 Mr. VanLoh added: ''We like to call it our Midwest mentality. We're practical and frugal. We see opportunity and we jump on it.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Oakland International Airport planned a $1 billion terminal. Now, it's spending $200 million on upgrades. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NOAH BERGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (94%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (90%); AIRPORT OPERATION (90%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (90%); AIRLINES (89%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (89%); AIRPORT RUNWAY CONSTRUCTION (89%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); EQUESTRIAN SPORTS (77%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (72%); FOOD & BEVERAGE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (64%); RESTAURANTS (60%)

COMPANY: SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF AIRPORT EXECUTIVES (56%)

TICKER: LUV (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (91%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (85%) KENTUCKY, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (85%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2009



624 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 479 words

HEADLINE: Equity Firm Invests in a Chinese Retailer

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

DATELINE: SHANGHAI 

 BODY:
Bain Capital, an American private investment firm, said Monday that it had agreed to invest as much as $432 million to acquire a minority stake in Gome Electrical Appliances, one of the biggest retailers in China. 
 The deal, which had been rumored for weeks, is expected to bolster Gome, which has been struggling amid weakening sales and the investigation of its founder and former chairman, Huang Guangyu, who was detained by the Chinese authorities on corruption charges in November.
 Trading in shares of Gome, which are listed in Hong Kong, has been suspended since November. The company said shares would resume trading Tuesday.
 The deal by Bain Capital, which is based in Boston, will be one of the largest American investments in a mainland Chinese company.
 In a statement, Gome's chairman and president, Chen Xiao, called the investment a ''new phase in the company's development.''
 Jonathan Zhu, managing director of Bain, said in a statement that Gome's business remained strong and that Bain saw long-term growth potential in the giant electronics retailer, which reported about $6.7 billion in revenue last year.
 Neither side mentioned the scandal involving the former chairman, but Gome has said before that the company was not a target of the investigation.
 Last year, Mr. Huang was named the richest man in mainland China by at least one publication, with a fortune estimated at $6 billion. At the time, he owned about 35 percent of Gome. The Chinese government has said Mr. Huang was under investigation for ''economic crimes.''
 Under the terms of the deal, Bain will invest about $233 million in a convertible bond and purchase as much as $199 million worth of new shares in the company if those shares are not bought by existing shareholders in what is called an open offer.
 Gome shareholders have several weeks to decide whether to increase their holdings; whatever is not acquired by those shareholders is expected to be bought by Bain. After the deal, Bain will hold 9 to 23 percent of Gome.
 Under the agreement, Bain is also expected to nominate three nonexecutive directors to the board of Gome, which is based in Beijing.
 After fees, Gome expects to raise $417 million to strengthen the company's balance sheet. Shares of the company plummeted more than 70 percent last year before trading was suspended.
 Mr. Chen said at a news briefing in Hong Kong on Monday that the electronics retailer would focus on opening megastores this year to use floor space more efficiently, Bloomberg reported. The company, with 859 stores at the end of last year, will relocate or close unprofitable outlets, he added.
 Bloomberg also reported that in a Monday filing to the Hong Kong stock exchange, Gome said that Ernst & Young had completed an independent review and had found no deficiencies in internal controls and no misappropriation of funds or assets.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bain Capital is investing in Gome Electrical Appliances. Above, a Hong Kong store.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BOBBY YIP/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (78%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); BOARD CHANGES (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (76%); SUSPENSION OF TRADING (75%); BONDS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); SCANDALS (72%); CORRUPTION (71%); MISAPPROPRIATION (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); CLOSINGS (60%)

COMPANY: GOME ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES HOLDINGS LTD (91%); BAIN CAPITAL LLC (90%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (50%)

TICKER: 0493 (HKSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (91%); NAICS443141 HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (91%); SIC5731 RADIO, TV & CONSUMER ELECTRONICS STORES (91%); SIC5722 HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (50%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (50%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%) EAST CHINA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) CHINA (94%); HONG KONG (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2009



625 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTS, BRIEFLY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 110 words

HEADLINE: Long Wharf Theater Cuts Jobs and Budget

BYLINE: Compiled by DAVE ITZKOFF

 BODY:
The Long Wharf Theater in New Haven has become the latest in a growing roster of cultural institutions to announce budget and staff cuts as it copes with the recession, The Hartford Courant reported. The theater, which has recently presented productions of Tennessee Williams's ''Glass Menagerie,'' Athol Fugard's ''Coming Home'' and Paula Vogel's ''Civil War Christmas,'' said it was reducing its 2009-10 budget by 16 percent, to $5.2 million from $6.2 million. It is also cutting 10 percent of its full-time staff (between 40 and 50 employees), eliminating five seasonal workers, switching six year-round contracts to seasonal work and imposing a hiring freeze. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (91%); SEASONAL WORKERS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (72%); CHRISTMAS (68%)

COMPANY: GLASS MENAGERIE (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS327212 OTHER PRESSED & BLOWN GLASS & GLASSWARE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3229 PRESSED & BLOWN GLASS & GLASSWARE, NEC (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (73%) CONNECTICUT, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2009



626 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 380 words

HEADLINE: Sales Improve at Walgreen, But Expenses Hurt Profit

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The drugstore operator Walgreen said Monday that its profit fell 9 percent in the third quarter despite improving sales as greater expenses, including its reorganization efforts, reduced its income.
 Walgreen, based in Deerfield, Ill., aims to cut its annual expenses by $1 billion starting in 2011, an initiative that is adding to its costs this year. In the quarter ended May 31, it earned $522 million, or 53 cents a share, down from $572 million, or 58 cents a share. 
 Analysts were expecting 56 cents a share, according to a poll by Thomson Reuters. Revenue grew 8 percent, to $16.21 billion, from $15.02 billion. Analysts forecast $16.16 billion in revenue, on average.
 Gross margins declined 0.8 percentage points to 27.5 percent.
 The company's selling, general and administrative expenses rose 8 percent in the quarter, which included one percentage point from its savings plan, called ''Rewiring for Growth.'' Walgreen said the plan was on track for $1 billion in annual savings beginning in 2011. It hopes to save $500 million in 2010. As part of that plan, Walgreen said in January it would eliminate 1,000 jobs, mostly in management.
 Walgreen says cost-cutting and sales initiatives cost it 6 cents a share, but resulted in savings of 6 cents a share. Pharmacy sales improved, but sales of nonpharmacy items were hit by the recession.
 Walgreen said that sales at stores open at least a year, or same-store sales, rose 2.8 percent. That includes growth of 3.8 percent in the pharmacies, where Walgreen makes about two-thirds of its sales, and a decrease of 0.9 percent at the front end of the stores.
 The company is testing a program called ''Consumer Centric Retailing'' that is meant to improve its front-end results. The program is being tried at 35 stores, and Walgreen said those stores were doing better than expected.
 Walgreen has announced it will open fewer new stores in the coming years. It opened 45 stores in the second quarter, down from 122 a year ago.
 In total during the quarter, Walgreen opened or bought 162 stores, which gave it a total of 6,857. It also has about 500 health and wellness centers, along with specialty, institutional and mail-order pharmacies.
 On Monday, Walgreen's shares fell $1.79, or 5.7 percent, to close at $29.64. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL SALES (90%); SAME STORE SALES (90%); RETAIL PHARMACEUTICALS (89%); PHARMACIES (89%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2009



627 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ON THE ROAD; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 837 words

HEADLINE: Aspiring to Rate Rooms When Everyone's a Critic

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY. 
E-mail: jsharkey@nytimes.com

 BODY:
THANKS to the Internet and its spawns like Facebook and Twitter, everybody's a critic. But not everybody is a good critic.
 Take hotel ratings. Like many other travelers, I have devised my own strange system for choosing a hotel, once I have settled on the location and price range. It encompasses word of mouth, hopeful guessing through past experiences with a given brand and wild speculation based on a haphazard sampling of the copious Internet reviews at various Web sites. 
 These online reviews, while often entertaining and informative in the aggregate, are typically written by anonymous people -- some of whom, for all I know, could be in a federal penitentiary and just killing time with wistful critiques of places they have never seen. 
 This is not a great system, but hey, adventure is grist for my little mill. There are, of course, professionally compiled hotel reviews, including those published by Mobil and AAA. Both employ legions of trained reviewers who roam the country with clipboards, anonymously checking into hotels to evaluate them on an exhaustive list of criteria. Their reviews, which assign rankings, are typically short and to the point. 
 Those guides are useful, as are the avalanche of amateur reviews that appear on Internet travel sites like IgoUgo .com (which even provides reader forums and travel journals) and TripAdvisor.com, which has tens of thousands of user-generated reviews of hotels. 
 I especially value TripAdvisor because, with practice, you can readily sort out the cranks from the vast majority of earnest reviewers who simply want to share their personal views about a hotel stay. 
 TripAdvisor does not pull punches. Take just two reviews appearing in recent days of a certain hotel in Times Square that heavily promotes itself to budget-minded tourists. ''A body bag was pulled out of the elevator,'' one unhappy guest related. ''To shut the door to the bathroom, we had to unplug the TV,'' reported another, cryptically.
 Anyway, you would think there would be no room for another hotel rating business. And you would think that would especially be the case now, given the gloom-by-the-room economic conditions in hotels and the slump in travel, in general.
 But no. On Monday a new company, Oyster Hotel Reviews, opened its doors online, with a stated goal of becoming the premier source for independent, professionally produced and in-depth hotel reviews. It's at www.oyster.com.
 The plan, said Elie Seidman, the chief executive and co-founder, is to establish a big base of ''rigorous and independent'' reviews, each about 2,000 words, accompanied by reviewer-produced candid photographs of practically every nook of each hotel.
 Right now, the Web site is limited mostly to reviews of hotels in Miami and the Caribbean. But the New York City hotel section will go live in a week or so, followed by the section on Las Vegas hotels. Others will follow.
 Oyster, which has financing from Bain Capital, operates on an interesting journalistic model for the Internet because it hires journalists as full-time employees, not independent contractors. Its reviewers train with a 60-page manual. And each review is heavily illustrated with high-resolution photographs, more than 100 for each review, enough to offer a full view of that lavish lobby as well as the questionable state of the shower stall caulking. 
 ''The reviews are very structured,'' Mr. Seidman said. ''Here's the room, here's the location, here's what the food is like, here are the amenities. We verify that the spa is a spa, and not a small room with an old treadmill that they're calling a spa.'' 
 He said the site had 15 people on the editorial staff, ''all with core journalism backgrounds.'' Ten of those people ''travel, effectively, full-time, and go to 60 or 70 hotels in a year,'' he said. ''We pay for all the expenses, the plane ticket, taxis, meals, rooms and, of course, salaries and benefits.''
 And they're hiring. When was the last time you heard that? (Aspiring hotel reviewers need to look up job postings on the Oyster site, and be sure to note the demanding qualifications required of job candidates.)
 ''It is my hope that by the end of next year, we'll employ 150 full-time people'' as hotel reviewers, Mr. Seidman said. In four to five years, he expects to have reviews of 20,000 hotels, most of them in resort spots and big cities around the world.
 My own assessment, in this early stage, is that the reviews now online are solid and useful, and the photographs are invaluable. The site is limited right now, as I said. And the company, which depends on advertising on the site, is carrying a big payroll and high travel expenses in a tough time for the travel industry.
 On the other hand, standards even at many quality hotels are slipping these days as costs are cut and rooms go unsold. I'm hearing more complaints about hotels now than I have in many years.
 So it will be good to have some extra cops walking the beat. With cameras.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRIS GASH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL MEDIA (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); CONSUMER RATINGS & REVIEWS (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); USER GENERATED CONTENT (78%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (58%); TRIPADVISOR INC (54%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (58%); TRIP (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2009



628 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: In a Campaign to Raise Rents, an Attempt to Humanize Landlords

BYLINE: By MANNY FERNANDEZ

 BODY:
When the board that regulates rents for New York City's rent-stabilized apartments met to vote on increases last year, tenants more than outnumbered landlords. They drowned them out, smuggling in hundreds of plastic whistles that rattled the nerves and rang the ears of landlords.
 But in the days leading up to this year's vote on Tuesday evening, landlords have had no problem being heard. The views of five property owners are getting frequent airtime on two popular radio stations, part of an ad campaign paid for by the Rent Stabilization Association, which represents thousands of landlords of rent-stabilized apartments. 
 In folksy tones, the five men and women describe themselves as small landlords who own only one or two buildings. And they talk, as birds chirp in the background, about their high costs.
 One landlord, Ernst Endrich, a retired transit worker who owns two small buildings in the Bronx, says in an ad, ''I pay $50,000 in property taxes and water rates.'' Another, Constance Nugent-Miller, a nurse who owns a six-unit building in Crown Heights, Brooklyn, that has been in her family since the mid-1950s, says: ''I use my second income as a nurse to pay fuel bills and make repairs. I do what it takes to provide quality housing my tenants can afford.''
 To executives at the association, the 60-second ads humanize their argument that the costs of owning and operating rent-stabilized units have outpaced the board's annual increases, by putting a face, or at least a voice, on residential landlords, a group that often cedes the spotlight to tenants. To tenants and their supporters, the ads are an unsuccessful attempt to convince the public that the landlords are not making significant profits.
 The nine-member board, known as the Rent Guidelines Board, approves the size of rent increases for the city's one million rent-stabilized apartments, in what are typically raucous meetings punctuated by shouting matches, booing and name-calling. Last year, the board approved its highest set of allowable rent increases since 1989 -- 4.5 percent on one-year leases and 8.5 percent on two-year leases.
 This year, because of last year's increases and the economic recession, the run-up to the board's vote on Tuesday has been unusually intense. 
 The radio ads are the first for the Rent Stabilization Association since 1997, when a political battle was brewing in Albany as the state's rent laws were set to expire. ''The backbone of the housing in the city are really small guys who have a different story to tell, versus the big owners,'' said Joseph Strasburg, president of the association. ''They know their tenants. They know them very well and they run decent buildings.'' 
 About 27 percent of the new York City's rent-stabilized apartments are in buildings with 19 or fewer units, according to the city's 2008 Housing and Vacancy Survey. 
 Mr. Strasburg declined to say how much the ad campaign cost. 
 Tenants and a number of elected officials have mounted a loose-knit campaign of their own, gathering signatures, calling 311 and rallying to push the board to authorize a rent freeze, in part because of the state of the economy. Since the board was established in 1969, it has never approved a rent decrease or a rent freeze.
 On Tuesday, many tenant activists plan to rely not on whistles but on tape: They will tape their mouths shut during the meeting to protest what they consider the board's disregard for their concerns. 
 ''I think it's time to talk about extraordinary measures,'' said City Councilman Bill de Blasio, a Brooklyn Democrat. ''If we can do bank bailouts and other government actions we never would have dreamed of, we certainly should talk about freezing rent increases.'' 
 Some of the landlords featured in the ads said that if the board approved a rent freeze, it would only be fair for the mayor to freeze property taxes as well. 
 Ms. Nugent-Miller, 44, said she owed the company that provided her building's heating oil about $17,000. Peter Petrov, 32, who owns a 55-unit building in the Norwood section of the Bronx, said that by the end of July, he will have paid about $60,000 in property tax and water and sewage bills. He said one of his tenants, a man who he says earns $90,000 a year, lives alone in a three-bedroom apartment. His rent is $696 a month. 
 ''His rent is probably going to go up 25 bucks,'' Mr. Petrov said, adding: ''Tenants feel they have this entitlement to affordable housing, but it's on the sacrifice of the landlords' back. It's not fair.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Constance Nugent-Miller, seated, who owns a six-unit building in Brooklyn, in her apartment with her daughter, Kristal Miller. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTIAN HANSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENT CONTROL (93%); RENTAL PROPERTY (92%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); APPROVALS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); SMUGGLING (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (76%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (75%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (75%); RADIO ADVERTISING (75%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (73%); PROPERTY TAX (71%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2009



629 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: Institutions Try to Slow Bill to Curb Sales of Art

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN

 BODY:
More than a dozen major cultural institutions, including the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum and the Whitney Museum of American Art, are trying to put the brakes on a bill introduced in the New York State Legislature in March to regulate the deaccessioning of collections, a controversial practice that has drawn attention as more institutions consider selling off artworks and artifacts in response to economic pressures. 
 A June 1 letter to legislators urged them to defer action on the bill ''until those affected and representatives of the public have had the opportunity to comment more fully.'' Addressed to Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky, who helped draft the bill, and Senator Jose E. Serrano, the bill's Senate sponsor, it was signed by organizations that also included Lincoln Center, the Museum of Modern Art, the Studio Museum of Harlem and the Wildlife Conservation Society. 
 The bill, which was also drafted by the State Board of Regents and the Museum Association of New York, would prohibit cultural institutions from using proceeds from the sale of works for operating expenses.
 ''You can't sell off the Chagall in order to put on a production of 'Don Giovanni,' '' Mr. Brodsky, a Westchester County Democrat, said by way of example, referring to the Metropolitan Opera's celebrated murals. ''You can't sell off 'The Bulls and the Bears in the Market' '' -- an 1879 painting by William Holbrook Beard -- ''to pay for your air-conditioning, in the case of the New York Historical Society.''
 Mr. Brodsky, responding to the organizations, said that ''the problem of deaccessioning is real and growing'' and that given the pressures of the current economic climate, ''the need for action is immediate.''
 The bill is currently before the committees in the Assembly and the Senate. It is unclear how the stalemate in the Senate, which has kept it out of session for two weeks, will ultimately affect the bill's progress. 
 The legislation was prompted by a number of recent high-profile moves, including the National Academy Museum's sale in December of two Hudson River School paintings to cover operating costs and Brandeis University's January announcement that it would close its Rose Art Museum in Waltham, Mass., and sell the collection because of its declining endowment, a plan that the university is now revisiting. In addition, Fort Ticonderoga, the historic site in upstate New York, last summer considered selling some artifacts to plug a shortfall, a proposal it later abandoned.
 Although the Board of Regents already has rules governing deacquisition by the cultural institutions it oversees, ''these regulations go further,'' James C. Dawson, chairman of the Regents' cultural education committee, said. ''Cultural institutions hold artifacts in trust for the public,'' he added, ''and deacquisition should only take place under very narrowly prescribed circumstances. And selling collections for operating funds or for capital improvements is not in the public interest.''
 Even as the bill has been working its way through the Legislature, other institutions around the state and the country have been considering or carrying out the sale of cultural property to make ends meet, prompting an outcry in the arts world. The Troy Public Library in Troy, N.Y., in April decided that it would sell through a gallery four 19th-century sculptures to raise money to keep a state grant. 
 A few weeks later, the Orange County Museum of Art in Newport Beach, Calif., was reported to have sold 18 of its 20 California Impressionist paintings to a collector whose identity was not disclosed. ''I'm stunned they sold it privately and are keeping it quiet,'' Jean Stern, director of the Irvine Museum in California, told The Los Angeles Times. Last year, the University of Iowa Museum of Art considered selling Jackson Pollock's 1943 ''Mural'' to defray the cost of damage from a flood but decided against it.
 While arts groups say they recognize the importance of governing principles when it comes to selling off pieces of their collections, they also say the Brodsky bill goes too far in imposing blanket regulations without regard to an organization's specific collecting policies and financial needs.
 One of the concerns of cultural organizations is a fear that the bill could restrict their ability to exercise curatorial judgment. Richard Armstrong, the director of the Guggenheim, wrote to Mr. Brodsky that the bill would stifle ''intellectual freedom and differences of taste and opinion.'' By legislating particular rules for deaccessioning, Mr. Armstrong added, the bill would ''chill institutions' willingness to make independent decisions that may be questioned as a matter of law.'' 
 Mr. Brodsky said he had responded to some of these concerns with revisions to the bill. The Metropolitan Opera, for example, asked that the legislation not apply to the collateralization of artwork, he said. 
 In March the opera announced that it would put up its Chagall murals as part of the collateral for an existing loan, and the bill was revised to permit existing collateralization agreements. The Museum of Natural History took issue with the bill's requirement that each institution keep a register of its holdings. ''They said, 'We have 6,000 beetles -- why would we want to publish a register that would include each beetle?''' Mr. Brodsky said. ''We changed it to classes of items.''
 Failure to pass the legislation, Mr. Brodsky said, would create ''a two-tier system'' in which institutions under Regents jurisdiction -- that is, most of the state's collecting institutions -- would continue to be governed by existing regulations, leaving the few that are exempt ''beyond formal public accountability.''
 ''There are a small number of people here who are simply going to resist,'' Mr. Brodsky said. ''They're entitled -- it's America. But this bill is carefully crafted to reassert the notion that the public interest has to be protected.''

CORRECTION-DATE: June 24, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Tuesday about cultural institutions' efforts to delay action by the New York State Legislature on a bill that would regulate the deaccessioning of artworks in their collections, citing organizations around the country that had sold or considered selling works, misidentified one such body. It was the Iowa Board of Regents, which oversees the University of Iowa Museum of Art, not the museum itself that at one point considered selling Jackson Pollock's 1943 ''Mural'' to defray the cost of damage from a flood. The article also misstated the middle initial of the senator who is sponsoring the bill in the state senate. He is Jose M. Serrano, not E.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky, who helped draft the bill, entering the Assembly chamber in Albany on Monday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); LEGISLATION (89%); PAINTING (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (88%); HISTORY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); HISTORIC SITES (76%); WILDLIFE (68%); OPERA (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (84%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION SOCIETY (56%)

PERSON: JOSE E SERRANO (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2009



630 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 928 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street Takes a Tumble as Global Forecast Dims

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY; David Jolly contributed reporting.

 BODY:
As hopes for a quick recovery dim, the bears are coming back to Wall Street. 
 Resurgent fears about a long economic downturn and an anemic recovery pounded financial markets on Monday, dragging stocks broadly lower in their largest one-day sell-off since late April. 
 A report by the World Bank highlighted fears that the world was not ready to snap back from the worst recession since World War II. The bank, cutting its outlook, predicted that the global economy would shrink 2.9 percent this year before rebounding in 2010. It also said that the world was ''entering an era of slower growth'' that demanded tighter oversight of the financial system. 
 The report said international trade would fall sharply and unemployment would bleed from industrial economies to those in export-dependent economies in East Asia. It said that economies of high-income countries like the United States and those of the European Union would contract 4.2 percent this year and grow slower than developing economies in the next two years.
 Separately, the White House predicted on Monday that unemployment would hit 10 percent in the coming months, a shift from its earlier predictions that the jobless rate would reach 8.9 percent at the end of the year. Unemployment is currently 9.4 percent.
 All that added up to a disappointing day for investors. The Dow lost 200.72 points, or 2.35 percent, to close at 8,339.01. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock fell 3.1 percent, or 28.19 points, to 893.04. The technology-geared Nasdaq was off 3.35 percent, or 61.28 points, to 1,766.19.
 ''The market's gone too far, too fast,'' said Karl O. Mills, president of the investment adviser firm Jurika, Mills & Keifer. ''It's writing checks that the recovery can't cash.'' On Monday, some of those checks bounced.
 ''Basically it's a reality check,'' Gerhard Schwarz, an equity strategist at Unicredit in Munich, said. Optimistic investors have bid stocks up by more than 30 percent from their nadir, he said, but ''there's been a lack of confirmation that it is justified. We're waiting for hard economic data to show the economy has turned around.''
 Financial stocks fell significantly as investors apparently saw little difference between big banks and small ones, as well as banks that had returned government bailout funds and those that were still holding onto taxpayer money. Shares of Bank of America fell 9.7 percent, JPMorgan Chase fell 6.1 percent and Morgan Stanley was off 5.8 percent. 
 Shares of Apple were down 1.5 percent, to $137.37, after reports over the weekend that its chief executive, Steven P. Jobs, who has been on a medical leave since January for treatment of what he called a hormone imbalance, underwent a liver transplant two months ago.
 Apple shares fell despite the company announcing that it had sold more than a million units of its latest iPhone model in the first three days.
 The prices of commodities like crude oil, copper and gold slumped as investors faced the prospect that emerging markets and developed economies were not about to ramp up industrial production or witness a spike in levels of consumer demand and consumption.
 Crude oil futures fell $2.62, settling at $66.93 a barrel, their lowest levels in three weeks, even as discord and protests in Iran raised questions about the stability of one of the Middle East's largest oil producers. Gasoline prices in the United States held steady at a nationwide average of $2.69 a gallon, according to AAA, the automobile club.
 The declines in commodities pulled down energy producers like BP in London, Total in Paris and Marathon Oil and Chevron in New York. The declines also weakened companies that produce basic materials like chemicals and steel.
 Analysts said that investors were taking a more cautious approach ahead of companies' reports of second-quarter earnings and a meeting of the Federal Reserve this week. The Fed is expected to keep interest rates at their record low levels near zero percent, but investors will pay attention to the central bank's statements about inflation and the success of its monetary policies.
 ''You're seeing people lock profits in, if there are any left,'' said Ryan Larson, senior equity trader at Voyageur Asset Management.
 Stocks shot higher this spring after dipping to their worst levels in more than a decade, but many Wall Street analysts say investors who have dived back into the markets are ignoring fundamental problems in the economy. The S.& P. 500 is down 5 percent since earlier this month, and many analysts say the stock markets could get stuck in a broad trading range as investors look ahead toward a sluggish recovery.
 Unemployment is rising and is expected to reach 10 percent or more, even after the broader economy begins to recover. Hundreds of big and small banks across the country are still on government lifelines. And while credit markets are returning to normal after last year's financial crisis, analysts say higher interest rates on Treasury notes and mortgages threaten to disrupt the government's attempts to right the economy.
 Investors are paying close attention to the bond market this week as the Treasury Department prepares to auction a record $104 billion in government notes. 
 Yields on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell to 3.68 percent from 3.78 percent on Friday, indicating higher demand for safe-haven government debt. The price, which moves in the opposite direction of yield, rose 25/32 to 95 13/32.
 Following are the results of Monday's Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills:

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Loading a cargo container onto a truck in Tokyo. The World Bank predicts that the global economy will shrink 2.9 percent this year and rebound in 2010, to begin a period of slower growth.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL CARONNA/REUTERS) CHARTS: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday (Sources: Associated Press
Bloomberg)
 3-Month Treasury Bills: High rate at weekly auction.(Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); RECESSION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); BAILOUTS (73%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (72%); EXECUTIVES (62%); WORLD WAR II (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (53%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (59%) EASTERN ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (59%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2009



631 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1221 words

HEADLINE: On Park Avenue, The Neighbors Are Not Amused

BYLINE: By SARAH KERSHAW

 BODY:
The sight of doormen in charcoal gray jackets and smooth white gloves is de rigueur on Park Avenue -- Main Street for a rarefied slice of Manhattan. The avenue's gilded apartment buildings, inhabited by power brokers and socialites, are among some of the most expensive real estate in the world. Well-tended begonias line the median of a wide and quiet boulevard.
 But these particular doormen were dashing one recent morning between orange cones, opening taxi doors for women in six-inch heels, ushering hundreds of guests into a 60,000-square-foot church for the Oscar de la Renta 2009 Resort Wear show. 
 And these days, the mere utterance of the name ''Oscar'' is enough to rankle the neighbors on Park Avenue, who may love to wear de la Renta but do not necessarily want his runways in their backyard. 
 The de la Renta show this month was the latest flashpoint in an epic three-year legal battle over 583 Park Avenue, a Christian Science church at 63rd Street that is being leased by a catering company, the Rose Group. The company has an exclusive contract with Mr. de la Renta for his shows and hosts several high-society daytime and evening events weekly, often drawing celebrities. In April, when Paul McCartney showed up to a benefit for the Natural Resources Defense Council, an environmental group, a crowd of photographers swarmed the building. 
 Paparazzi on Park Avenue? Egad.
 Soon after the catering hall began holding large receptions and high-profile weddings at the landmark church, a 2007 Vanity Fair article headlined ''The Party Goes Uptown'' lavishly praised its aesthetics. The catering company is owned by Louis Rose, a young entrepreneur who says he has spent about $6 million on construction to repair the church, meet safety codes and ready the hall for the events, and $2 million more on legal fees to get permission to run the business and to fight the battle with neighbors. 
 Vanity Fair compared the hall's downstairs arcade to Annabel's nightclub in London; that especially rankled the church's neighbors, who had formed a group called the Preservation Coalition to protest the catering hall. The neighbors hired the well-known New York publicist Howard J. Rubenstein to get the word out about their concerns, saying they were trying to preserve the character of a neighborhood that was not zoned for such commercial activity. 
 They complain of traffic and noise, saying that food and other deliveries made by trucks for the fashion shows and other events can begin a day or more in advance and continue the next day, forcing them to double-park in front of their apartments and endure crowds on the avenue.
 Neighbors said they felt blindsided by the caterers. 
 ''These are strange people in my book,'' said George Davis, a retired banker who lives across the street from the church and is the spokesman for the coalition, which represents seven buildings near the church. ''They crept into the neighborhood, they didn't ask anybody if it was O.K., they didn't come around and talk to us -- we found out ourselves, and they seem to play by different rules than everyone else.''
 The battle dates to 2006, when the church, with a dwindling congregation and few resources to restore and maintain it, applied to the city to lease the four-story neo-Georgian corner structure, built in 1924, to the caterer for at least 20 years. Officials with the New York Landmarks Conservancy supported the application, testifying that it was ''no exaggeration to call this a crisis.'' The church gets 10 percent of the catering hall's revenue, with a guarantee of $250,000 per year.
 Park Avenue is zoned as a residential district, but the church applied for a waiver to lease its space for what is known as ''accessory use.'' The city allowed it, but then revoked the approval, prompting a federal lawsuit. 
 The United States District Court for the Southern District ruled in December that the city could not block the use because it would be treating the church differently from two other nearby Park Avenue buildings, the Beekman, an apartment building, and the Regency, an apartment-hotel. The city has appealed that decision, saying it turned only on an equal rights issue and did not address the growing frequency and size of the events at 583 Park Avenue.
 The neighbors and the city contend that catering, not churchgoing, has become the primary use of the building. While the church still holds services on Wednesday evenings and Sunday mornings, it has agreed to have the Rose Group remove all the pews and conceal its frieze, tablets and the words ''Third Church of Christ, Scientist'' with removable metal coverings that look like slate. 
 The neighbors' lawyer, Phyllis H. Weisberg, said that Mr. Rose had misled the residents and city zoning officials about his intentions and that his operation violated numerous city ordinances, including a rule that said no liquor can be served within 200 feet of another church -- Central Presbyterian is a block away, on 64th street. The caterer said it had been obtaining temporary permits to serve liquor. 
 Mr. Rose, who said he had hired nine lawyers to fight various legal attacks from neighbors -- he, too, hired a well-known New York publicist, George Arzt, to get press for the new hall and to publicize the legal troubles -- contended his company was being singled out by the city and crushed under the power and prestige of Park Avenue. The neighbors' group said it had spent about $550,000 on lawyers.
 ''You name the agency; they've sent it,'' Mr. Rose said. ''I believe their plan was to kill us with 100 cuts, to bleed us dry.'' 
 Last summer, as the battle was reaching an especially nasty peak, a neighbor parked her car in the middle of the avenue to block the limousines and taxis dropping off people for a de la Renta show, saying she wanted to give Mr. Rose a taste of his own medicine. 
 Mr. Rose said that attempts at a compromise with the neighbors had been rebuffed, and that he tried to keep traffic and noise to a minimum. He added that the catering hall employed 600 temporary and permanent workers annually and paid the city more than $300,000 a year in sales tax. 
 The church and Mr. Rose have argued that without the catering company's investment, the historic building would be in danger, a growing problem faced by other churches with shrinking congregations across the country and one made worse by the recession. In a 2006 letter to the neighbors, church leaders estimated they needed $1 million to repair the domed roof and to restore the Vermont slate in the pattern designed by the famed architectural firm Delano & Aldrich; Mr. Rose said he had started restoring the roof but had not finished because he had spent so much on the legal battle.
 The neighbors, in turn, said that they wished the church had asked for help in raising the money or finding a tenant to cover the costs of maintaining the building, but that the catering hall had changed the character of Park Avenue. 
 ''We didn't really bargain for this,'' said Adele Hogan, a neighbor on Park Avenue, adding that the traffic had made her miss her daughters' soccer games and caused other headaches. ''This isn't running a hotel or any other kind of business; this is just having parties.''
 And so the battle -- and the party -- goes on.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 3, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on June 23 about a zoning dispute between neighbors of a landmark Christian Science church on Park Avenue and a catering company that leases the church for high-society events gave outdated information about the New York Landmarks Conservancy's position on the church's application to lease its building. In a draft of remarks prepared for a hearing, the group did support the application, but no hearing was ever held, so it never gave any testimony, and ultimately did not take any public position on the matter. The article also provided insufficient context for a comment by the conservancy. In saying it was ''no exaggeration to call this a crisis,'' the conservancy was referring generally to the plight of churches nationwide with dwindling congregations and resources, not specifically to the Park Avenue church. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Helen Keller International held its annual gala in May at the Third Church of Christ, Scientist, at Park Avenue and 63rd Street, the center of a dispute between a caterer that leases a church hall year-round and residents who complain of noise, traffic and other disruptions. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); CATERING SERVICES (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); FASHION & APPAREL (73%); CELEBRITIES (70%); RELIGION (70%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (70%); FASHION SHOWS (68%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (66%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (65%); VISUAL ARTISTS (65%)

COMPANY: AQUANTIVE INC (55%); ROSE GROUP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: HELEN KELLER INTERNATIONAL (59%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (55%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (55%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (55%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (55%); NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (55%); SIC1542 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS, OTHER THAN INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS & WAREHOUSES (55%)

PERSON: OSCAR DE LA RENTA (79%); PAUL MCCARTNEY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (52%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2009



632 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 635 words

HEADLINE: 2 Agencies Seek Joint Control Over Derivatives Markets

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
The leaders of two agencies on Monday pressed Congress for joint regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market, representing a face value of $592 trillion, in the wake of the role derivatives played in contributing to the global financial crisis.
 Primary responsibility for derivatives tied to securities, including credit-default swaps, should go to the Securities and Exchange Commission, its chairwoman, Mary L. Schapiro, told a Senate subcommittee. 
 Other derivatives, including those related to interest rates and commodities, should be regulated by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, said its chairman, Gary Gensler. 
 ''The C.F.T.C. and S.E.C. should have clear, unimpeded oversight and enforcement authority to prevent and punish fraud, manipulation and other market abuses,'' Mr. Gensler said.
 Ms. Schapiro and Mr. Gensler are mainly seeking authority to subject derivatives dealers to capital, margin and disclosure requirements, and position limits. President Obama and Congress are trying to sort out how best to regulate the industry. 
 ''The full, mandatory regulation of all derivatives dealers would represent a dramatic change from the current system in which some dealers can operate with limited or no effective oversight,'' Mr. Gensler told the Senate Banking Subcommittee on Securities, Insurance and Investment.
 Congress may pass new derivatives laws with Mr. Obama's regulatory overhaul this year. Ms. Schapiro said the S.E.C. was considering whether disclosure rules for stocks should apply to security-based derivatives that do not trade on exchanges. The agency also is weighing whether an equity swap tied to a company's performance should be treated the same as holding the shares, she said.
 ''Similar products and activities should be subject to similar regulations and oversight,'' Ms. Schapiro said. ''The interchangeability of securities and securities-related'' derivatives ''means that they are driven by the same economic forces.''
 Mr. Gensler focused on capital and margin requirements, saying they would prevent derivatives users like the American International Group from amassing ''large or highly leveraged risks outside the oversight of prudential safeguards of regulators.'' A.I.G. needed $182.5 billion in taxpayer aid because of credit-default swap trades on mortgage-linked securities. 
 Some lawmakers, including Senator Tom Harkin, Democrat of Iowa, want a more aggressive approach than the administration is backing. Mr. Harkin is pushing legislation that would require all over-the-counter derivatives trades to be cleared through a regulated exchange. That would subject the contracts to margin and collateral requirements.
 Derivatives are financial instruments derived from stocks, bonds, loans, currencies and commodities, or tied to specific events such as changes in interest rates. Credit-default swaps were created to let banks hedge risks from loans. They became a popular way for hedge funds, insurance companies and other asset managers to speculate on the quality of debt or on the creditworthiness of companies because they were often easier and cheaper to trade than bonds.
 The economy's longest recession since the 1930s was set off when credit markets froze after banks found they could not determine the value of trades linked to mortgage bonds.
 Christopher Whalen, managing director of Institutional Risk Analytics in Torrance, Calif., advocated a ban in trading of credit-default swaps. Regulators are too cozy with the banks in the market to be counted on to make changes, he said.
 The Electric Power Supply Association, a trade group, said forcing energy derivatives onto exchanges would raise the costs of hedging and reduce market liquidity. It called for imposition of reporting requirements instead. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (89%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INSURANCE (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); FUTURES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); BONDS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (63%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (57%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (57%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (63%); 8685 (TSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (63%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (63%)

PERSON: MARY L SCHAPIRO (79%); TOM HARKIN (78%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2009



633 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING WEST; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 55 words

HEADLINE: California: Los Angeles Mayor To Skip Governor's Race

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Mayor Antonio R. Villaraigosa of Los Angeles announced he would not enter the 2010 race to succeed Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, a Republican who is barred from seeking re-election. Mr. Villaraigosa, a Democrat who begins his second term in July, said he could not leave his job as his city faces a budget crisis and high unemployment. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (82%); BUDGETS (80%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2009



634 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 955 words

HEADLINE: Hedge Funds Step Up Efforts to Avert Tougher Rules

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY

 BODY:
First hedge funds battled the markets. Now they are battling Washington. 
 After a tumultuous run for many of these funds, this normally secretive corner of Wall Street is mobilizing its money and power to fend off tougher oversight, higher taxes and much greater transparency. 
 At the center of the fray is Richard H. Baker, the former Republican congressman who now leads the industry's main lobbying group, the Managed Funds Association. 
 This year Mr. Baker has tried to persuade hedge fund managers to support proposals to require funds to register with federal regulators -- a move some big funds did not initially support, but one many others see as a bargaining chip that could avert even tougher restrictions. 
 Mr. Baker has also met with Treasury officials and has been the host of gatherings to raise money for Christopher J. Dodd, the Democratic chairman of the Senate Banking Committee. He has events planned for Barney Frank, the Democratic leader of the House Financial Services Committee, and Mr. Frank's Republican counterpart, Richard C. Shelby.
 The effort seems to be working. The proposals for hedge funds laid out by the Obama administration last week, as part of its overhaul of financial regulation, are strikingly similar to those that hedge fund lobbyists said they would accept. In an interview, Mr. Baker said that hedge funds were simply catching up in Washington with other financial companies, like banks and mutual funds, which have lobbied successfully for years. 
 ''They were much more engaged and successful on that front than we were,'' said Mr. Baker, the former chairman of a subcommittee of the House Financial Services committee. 
 Donations in the industry have long been slanted toward Democratic candidates, and $11 million of last year's nearly $17 million in donations were doled out to Democrats, according to the Center for Responsive Politics.
 In the last two years, fund managers have also spent about $15 million on lobbyists, quadruple the amount they spent in past years. 
 The registration of hedge funds, as well as private equity firms, has figured prominently in discussions of reform for years. Mr. Baker himself wrote it into a bill back in 1999, after the near collapse of the hedge fund Long Term Capital Management prompted federal officials to broker a Wall Street-led rescue. 
 Mandatory registration has been discussed for so long, in fact, that many in the industry regard it as the issue to fight over to avoid other, more pressing matters.
 ''It's a red herring,'' said Robert Sloan, managing partner at S3, which helps hedge funds manage their positions. ''What other business in the world doesn't want to register its name and number, the mafia? The real issues are counterparties, leverage, shorting, derivatives and exchanges.''
 The Citadel Investment Group has been focused on those issues. Kenneth C. Griffin, the Citadel chief executive, testified in Congress about derivatives trading on Monday.
 People who study the industry wonder if the hedge fund operators can stick together. Two years ago, funds split into competing groups after disagreements about the Managed Funds Association's positions. 
 One of the groups, led by James Chanos, the prominent short-seller who runs Kynikos Associates, was an early supporter of registration. The group, called the Coalition of Private Investment Companies, has put up Web sites recently to educate the public on hedge funds and short-selling.
 Also two years ago, some hedge funds split away from the association into a group to fight proposals to change the so-called carried-interest tax, which allows partnerships to pay capital gains taxes on income they earn over time. That loophole -- under debate again in this Congress -- generates billions of dollars in gains to hedge funds and private equity firms. 
 The Tudor Investment Group, one of the few funds to have set up its own political action committee, was an ardent opponent of the change. An economist from Tudor, Robert McNally, toured Washington last year using his expertise on oil as an entree but steering conversations quickly to carried interest, according to Congressional staff members.
 Other hedge fund chiefs have visited the Hill on their own lately. James Simons, the former mathematics professor who runs Renaissance, met with lawmakers from a subcommittee of the House Financial Services Committee this month. And lobbyists for the Private Equity Council, which is trying to differentiate its members from hedge funds, met recently with staff members on that same committee.
 Mr. Baker's association listed a dozen bills as being of interest in an April lobbying disclosure form, that put its lobbying spending at $750,000 a quarter. Since then, other issues have arisen, like hedge fund rules in Europe that hedge funds have asked the Treasury Department to oppose. A spokesman for the Treasury Department said the Treasury met not only with hedge funds, but with other groups as well. 
 Mr. Baker said in an interview that if the carried-interest tax loophole were closed, he would push for a delay before doing so. 
 He also said no hedge funds should be deemed ''systemically important,'' a designation that would open them to greater scrutiny under the Obama administration's proposals. People who follow the industry dismiss his position as jockeying.
 ''It's disingenuous for anyone to claim in this day and age that no hedge fund is systemically important,'' said Andrew W. Lo, a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who has studied hedge funds for more than a decade. ''Frankly I don't think any hedge fund manager in his right mind could argue that the industry needs no oversight.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Richard H. Baker leads the Managed Funds Association.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN McDERMID/REUTERS) CHARTS: Seeking Influence: Political donations by the hedge fund industry rose by more than 200 percent, to $16.8 million, from the 2006 to the 2008 political cycles.(Source: Center for Responsive Politics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (95%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); LOBBYING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); POLITICS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); PRIVATE EQUITY (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%)

COMPANY: CITADEL INVESTMENT GROUP LLC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (59%)

PERSON: BARNEY FRANK (71%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (56%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2009



635 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 775 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 SARKOZY BACKS DRIVE
 To Eliminate The Burqa
 President Nicolas Sarkozy addressed Parliament on Monday, laying out a vision of France that included a withering critique of burqas as an unacceptable symbol of ''enslavement.'' PAGE A4
 A SILENT HOLY CITY 
 Nowhere in Iraq is the silence about the Iranian election controversy more striking than in Najaf, the burial place of the founder of the Shiite sect of Islam and the faith's theological center. PAGE A6
 A SHIFT IN WAR PLANNING
 Senior officials said the Pentagon will adopt a new strategy that for the first time orders the military to anticipate that future conflicts will include a complex mix of conventional battles and campaigns against shadowy insurgents PAGE A6
 National
 FEDERAL SAVINGS UNCLEAR 
 In Drug Price Cut
 The White House hailed an agreement with the pharmaceutical industry to help lower drug costs, but it was not immediately clear how much the government would reap in savings that could be used to pay for covering the uninsured. PAGE A15
 REDUCING PRISON RAPE
 A Congressional commission plans to issue recommendations on Tuesday for standards to reduce sexual assaults in the nation's jails and prisons. PAGE A17
 OBAMA AND SMOKING
 As President Obama signed legislation bringing tobacco products under federal control for the first time, he alluded to his own difficulty with quitting smoking, but did not mention whether he continues to smoke. PAGE A15
 New York 
 AN UNLIKELY ALLIANCE 
 Between Adversaries
 Although the negotiations over the World Trade Center site have gone nowhere, the deadlock has produced something of note: a startling alliance between Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, who are former adversaries. PAGE A21
 Business
 JOBS'S TRANSPLANT RAISES QUESTIONS ABOUT ORGANS
 Reports that Apple's chief executive, Steven P. Jobs, traveled to Tennessee for a liver transplant two months ago raised many questions -- not just about his prognosis, but also about the system for allocating scarce organs to the many people who need them. PAGE B1
 SKIRTING CHINA'S LABOR LAW
 With China's exports reeling and unemployment rising because of the global slowdown, there is growing evidence that factories are ignoring or evading a new contract labor law, and that the government is reluctant to enforce it. PAGE B1
 FUNDS FIGHT REGULATION
 The usually secretive hedge fund industry is mobilizing its money and power to fend off tougher government oversight, higher taxes and greater transparency. PAGE B3
 Obituaries
 JEAN DAUSSET, 92
 A French immunologist, he shared the Nobel Prize in 1980 for discoveries about the human immune system that vastly improved the odds of success in organ transplants. PAGE A23
 Sports
 AN EARLY EXIT FOR BLAKE
 At Wimbledon
 The old Court 2 at Wimbledon -- long known as the Graveyard for being the site of early exits by top-seeded players -- maintained its traditions as James Blake, the 17th seed from the United States, was upset by Andreas Seppi of Italy in the first round. PAGE B11
 FACING UNCERTAINTY IN DRAFT
 The Knicks will select eighth in the coming NBA draft, but there is plenty of uncertainty among the available prospects and the team itself. PAGE B10
 Arts
 AN AGE OF ANGST, 
 Even for the Rich
 Alessandra Stanley writes that ''NYC Prep,'' a Bravo reality show that follows around a gaggle of privileged New York City teenagers, is different from the fictional ''Gossip Girl'' in that its cast is burdened by the naivete and angst of adolescence. PAGE C1
 THE RUMSFELDIAN PERSONA
 Bradley Graham's ''By His Own Rules,'' examines Donald's Rumsfeld's tenure as the Secretary of Defense and his stewardship of the Iraq War. Review by Michiko Kakutani. PAGE C1
 FLASH AND SONGS
 Beyonce took the Madison Square Garden stage on Sunday, full of the head-spinning and logistically demanding pomp that Ben Ratliff writes has become her signature. PAGE C1
 ANOTHER FRENCH OPEN
 Yannick Noah, the former tennis champion turned singer, headlined a Central Park SummerStage concert sponsored by the French Embassy. PAGE C3
 Science Times
 WHEN IT COMES TO TIMING,
 The Brain Trusts the Ears
 Researchers are just beginning to appreciate how beholden humans are to ears. Mechanically, electrically, behaviorally and cosmetically, they are a genuine earmark of our species. PAGE D1
 WHEN NO NEWS IS BAD NEWS
 A study of office procedures among primary care physicians found evidence that more than 7 percent of clinically significant findings were never reported to the patient. PAGE D7
 Op-ed
 DAVID BROOKS PAGE A25
 BOB HERBERT PAGE A25
 ROGER COHEN PAGE A25

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMOKING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); RELIGION (90%); BIOETHICS (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); TRANSPLANT SURGERY (86%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (79%); EXPORT TRADE (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); DRUG PRICES (74%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (74%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (74%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (71%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (70%); SEX OFFENSES (67%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (66%); SMOKING CESSATION (66%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (63%); HEDGE FUNDS (60%); NOBEL PRIZES (60%); IMMUNOLOGY (60%); AWARDS & PRIZES (60%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (65%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (65%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (65%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (65%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (65%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (65%)

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (90%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); STEVEN JOBS (66%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) CHINA (92%); IRAQ (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); FRANCE (91%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2009



636 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1448 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Warns on Pension Costs but Gave Hefty Pay Deals

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO; David W. Chen and Danny Hakim contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg is sounding the alarm over New York City's pension system these days, calling it ''out of control.''
 Costs have ballooned, he says, threatening to bankrupt the city. Municipal unions and lawmakers in Albany created the crisis, he suggests, and left the city holding the bag. 
 But interviews and budget records show that the Bloomberg administration itself is responsible for much of the growth in city pension costs over the last eight years, and has repeatedly missed opportunities to rein in the spending. 
 Since Mr. Bloomberg took office, city contributions to the pension system have jumped nearly five-fold to $6.3 billion, from $1.4 billion, and they now account for one out of every 10 dollars in the city's budget. 
 A major reason: the mayor has given the city's 300,000 workers generous pay increases, guaranteeing that they retire with bigger pensions, which are typically 50 percent of salary. Such raises force the city to make heftier payments to the pension system now. 
 Salary increases approved by Mr. Bloomberg are responsible for nearly 30 percent of the growth in city pension costs from the 2002 through 2008 fiscal years -- about $1.2 billion, according to the administration's Office of Management and Budget. That figure is projected to rise to $1.7 billion by next year. At the same time, the mayor has offered support for legislation, passed in Albany, that has made pensions even more lucrative for many workers, costing the city tens of millions of dollars. 
 Mr. Bloomberg presents himself as a model of financial restraint who has stood up to special interests, like unions, in order to hold down city spending -- a claim that is at the heart of his bid for a third term. 
 But financial-watchdog groups say that rather than confronting the city's pension problem, the mayor has made it worse over the last several years, negotiating costlier payouts for retirees in flush economic times that threaten to be crippling now that the city is in a recession. 
 ''You have a mayor who says that pension costs are unsustainable, that they will bankrupt the city, who has willfully increased the city's pension liabilities,'' said Nicole Gelinas, a senior fellow at the conservative-leaning Manhattan Institute who focuses on New York City's finances. 
 Falling tax revenues have created new pressures to rein in pension costs, and Gov. David A. Paterson announced an agreement this month to create a less generous level of pension benefits for future state employees. On Monday night, the Bloomberg administration and the city's teachers' union, the United Federation of Teachers, announced that they would support legislation to do the same for new teachers. But the Assembly's session ended Monday, and the chamber had not taken up the measure by 10 p.m. 
 Aides to the mayor defend his handling of pension costs.
 While acknowledging that Mr. Bloomberg has given significant raises, the aides say the weakened stock market has also driven up costs, because the city is forced to cover investment losses in the pension system. 
 The aides also said the administration was hamstrung by rules that give authority over pensions to the state, even though New York City pays the bill. 
 Over the last seven years, public sector unions have successfully lobbied lawmakers to pass dozens of bills increasing their pension benefits. In most cases, aides to the mayor said, the city has vigorously opposed the measures, to no avail. ''Unfortunately, the battle we've been fighting over pensions is how to keep them from getting even more generous and expensive,'' said Edward Skyler, the deputy mayor who oversees labor negotiations. 
 But the mayor has, in fact, supported legislation that makes pensions more lucrative. Coming into office after the Sept. 11 attack, he backed proposals to increase retirement pay for firefighters and police officers, who receive the city's biggest pensions. 
 One measure, signed into law in 2002, makes those who stay on the job for more than 20 years eligible for annual payouts of up to $12,000, known as ''Christmas bonuses.'' Those who leave the force after 20 years already receive the annual payments, on top of their regular pension payout, so the city argued that the change would stave off early retirements. The program has already cost the pension system $40 million. 
 Another measure, signed the same year, extended the benefit that gives retirees an additional 1.7 percent of the pay they earned for each of the years after 30 years of service. It has cost the city about $80 million.
 The mayor also supported a 2007 bill allowing teachers to retire, with full pension benefits, five years early (after 25 years). The city predicts that the change will pay for itself over time, because older, higher-paid teachers can be replaced with younger ones. But it has already cost city taxpayers $58 million, and is projected to cost another $25 million over the next year.
 The mayor's biggest contribution to pension costs, however, are the raises he has negotiated for city workers.
 Mr. Skyler said the administration has negotiated contracts that have improved productivity and attracted more qualified job candidates. As a result, the city has been able to improve services, he said. ''We get our money's worth,'' he said. 
 But records show that wage increases granted by the Bloomberg administration have outpaced the rate of inflation, and have sent labor costs surging.
 The Citizens Budget Commission, a municipal watchdog group, has called the raises ''generous in both historical and comparative terms.''
 ''It's pretty simple: If you pay people more, their pensions get bigger,'' said Charles M. Brecher, the research director at the commission. ''And wages are negotiated by the mayor. This is his call.''
 In his first term, the mayor demanded wage concessions from city workers, like lower starting salaries, fewer sick days and vacation days. 
 But in his second term, Mr. Bloomberg often awarded the raises with no strings attached. 
 State lawmakers generally refuse to cut pension benefits without the support of labor leaders, who have little incentive to reduce the retirement pay of their members. 
 That leaves Mr. Bloomberg, the experts say, with the only remaining tool that could bring about change, because of his control over pay raises. 
 Until now, ''it has not been pushed seriously,'' said Gregory Floyd, president of Local 237 of the Teamsters, which represents workers at the city's housing authority and public hospitals. 
 Aides to the mayor said an attempt to persuade the city's largest union, District Council 37, to explore pension reform in 2006 drew fierce opposition from union leaders, so the city retreated. ''It didn't get very far,'' said James Hanley, the city's commissioner of labor. ''That was the last major push,'' he acknowledged. 
 Critics contend that the mayor has caved in, in part, out of a desire to win the unions' support for re-election. ''He has become more and more accommodating to unions over time,'' said Fred Siegel, a professor of history at Cooper Union who has written ''The Prince of the City,'' a book about Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani. 
 The mayor's political independence -- unlike most politicians, he takes no campaign donations -- made him ''perfectly situated to impose pension reforms, but he chose to not really even try,'' Mr. Siegel said. ''That's the tragedy.''
 Today, as the city faces a deep and potentially long recession, Mr. Bloomberg is advocating pension reform. But the mayor may have given away some bargaining power. In his second term, the mayor signed unusually long labor contracts, many granting workers a 4 percent-a-year pay increase over four consecutive years. Some of the contracts do not expire until 2012. 
 ''The mayor has lost his leverage,'' said a top official from a major city union, who spoke on condition of anonymity for fear of antagonizing Mr. Bloomberg. ''The last contract was very, very rich.''
 When the financial crisis began this fall, Ms. Gelinas, of the Manhattan Institute, was stunned that the mayor still signed a contract granting District Council 37's workers 4 percent raises for two consecutive years, at a cost of $370 million, without demanding support for cost-saving pension reforms. 
 She called it a ''missed chance.'' In the absence of state action, the simplest way to reduce pension costs, she wrote in the institute's newsletter at the time, ''is to refrain from signing new contracts that increase the burden they impose.''
 She added: ''If Mayor Bloomberg won't even try to win even the most modest concessions from labor unions now, when will he?''

GRAPHIC: CHART: A GROWING BURDEN: Under the Bloomberg administration, the city's pension costs have grown nearly five-fold. And they are expected to continue to surge over the next several years. (Sources: New York City Office of Management and Budget
 New York City Independent Budget Office) (pg.A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TEACHER UNIONS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (88%); LEGISLATION (86%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); APPROVALS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (82%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%); DAVID PATERSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); ALBANY, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2009



637 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 688 words

HEADLINE: A Fairer Credit Card? Priceless

BYLINE: By RYAN BUBB and ALEX KAUFMAN. 
Ryan Bubb and Alex Kaufman are doctoral candidates in economics at Harvard.

DATELINE: Cambridge, Mass. 

 BODY:
 INDUSTRY representatives would have you believe that the Credit Card Accountability, Responsibility and Disclosure Act enacted last month spells the end of the credit card as we know it. President Obama's proposal last week to create a Consumer Financial Protection Agency to enforce the law has increased the industry's concerns.
 But the example of cards issued by credit unions puts the lie to these claims. Credit unions largely conform to the new rules already, while profitably maintaining the basic features that users know and love. 
 The credit card act is under fire for limiting a number of fees commonly used in credit card contracts, like the charge for going over the credit limit and the increased interest rate that applies once a borrower has missed a payment. These changes might look like a boon for the average card user, but industry advocates claim that fees on delinquent borrowers subsidize the perks for those who pay on time. Take away the lucrative fees, the argument goes, and credit card issuers will be forced to ax free plane rides, slash generous credit limits and impose hefty annual dues for all.
 Some in the industry even say that profitability would require issuers to charge interest from the moment of purchase, thus eliminating the grace period of interest-free lending that borrowers have long enjoyed.
 These fears are largely unfounded. We have performed a study that compared credit cards issued by investor-owned banks to those issued by customer-owned credit unions. We found that credit unions are less likely to charge the fees and penalties that the new act hopes to eliminate -- and when they do, they charge less than other issuers. 
 While virtually all banks and other for-profit issuers increase the interest rate if the borrower fails to make a minimum payment on time, most credit unions do not. Similarly, credit union fees for exceeding the credit limit are on average just half those of other issuers. But contrary to industry assertions, more responsible card users don't pay the price. Credit union cards actually offer lower annual fees and longer grace periods than regular cards.
 Is the lending model used by credit unions feasible for banks and other issuers? Absolutely. Banks and credit unions compete for customers in the same market. The primary distinguishing characteristic of credit unions is that they answer to a different group of owners: profits that are not reinvested are paid to the union's shareholder-customers as a dividend, much as investor-owned banks reinvest or pay dividends to their shareholder-investors.
 True, unlike typical banks, credit unions have the advantage of being exempt from corporate income taxes, thus some might argue that this gives them an edge. But this is a proportional tax on profits. In other words, if credit unions were not exempt from the tax, their model would still make profits, they would just retain less of them. 
 Credit union cards are a great test case for how regular cards will perform under the new law. The evidence so far suggests that the credit card act is likely to bring about moderate, and even positive, changes. Card issuers, after all, need to retain customers. Any bank that attempts to pad its bottom line by, say, levying large annual fees will likely see its customers flee to credit unions or to banks that emulate the credit union model. 
 To be sure, the new law will require some sacrifices. Our data indicate that rewards programs, for example, may become less generous or less common. But is this necessarily a bad thing? While you may be reluctant to sacrifice your airline miles, rewards programs are anything but free for the nation as a whole. Debt-laden and often low-income borrowers tend to pay high fees to subsidize the vacations of those who manage to pay on time. 
 Credit union cards demonstrate that punishing fees are not an essential ingredient of profitable lending. This should help assuage fears that the credit card act will bring disaster for credit cards. Rather, it should nudge them toward the gentler credit union model that many Americans already enjoy. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY GARY TAXALI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (90%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CREDIT UNIONS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (77%); TAX LAW (77%); DIVIDENDS (74%); INTEREST RATES (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); LABOR UNIONS (71%); INCOME TAX (60%); CORPORATE TAX (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2009



638 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1395 words

HEADLINE: Growth, but at a Price

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA; Xie Qing contributed research.

DATELINE: DONGGUAN, China 

 BODY:
Liu Pan, a 17-year-old factory worker, was crushed to death last April when the machine he was operating malfunctioned.
 Somehow Mr. Liu became stuck in the machine, his sister Liu Yan recalled during a tearful interview in a village near the factory. 
 ''When we got his body, his whole head was crushed,'' Ms. Liu said. ''We couldn't even see his eyes.''
 Investigating the accident, inspectors found a series of labor and safety violations at the factory, Yiuwah Stationery, which supplies cards, gift boxes and other paper goods to Disney, the British supermarket chain Tesco and other companies.
 The investigators also discovered that Mr. Liu was hired illegally, at 15, below the legal age limit here. Disney has called the situation at the factory ''unacceptable.'' 
 In a statement issued Wednesday, Disney said it had instructed its vendors and licensees to ''cease new orders of any Disney-branded products in the Yiuwah factory'' until conditions were improved.
 A spokesman for Tesco said that company was also working to improve conditions at the factory.
 While the accident at the Yiuwah factory was particularly tragic, working conditions elsewhere are worsening. A year and a half after a landmark labor law took effect in China, experts say conditions have actually deteriorated in southern China's export-oriented factories, which produce many of America's less expensive retail goods.
 With China's exports reeling and unemployment rising because of the global slowdown, there is growing evidence that factories are ignoring or evading the new law, and that the government is reluctant to enforce it. 
 Government critics say authorities fear that a crackdown on violators could lead to mass layoffs and even social unrest.
 ''The economic downturn has given regulators the perfect excuse to ignore the law,'' says Zhang Zhiru, director of the Shenzhen Chunfeng Labor Dispute Service, a nonprofit group that supports workers. ''I don't see any fundamental change.''
 But workers are fighting back. Earlier this month, the government said Chinese courts were trying to cope with a soaring number of labor disputes, apparently from workers emboldened by the promise of the new contract labor law. 
 The number of labor disputes in China doubled to 693,000 in 2008, the first year the law was in effect, and are rising sharply this year, the government says. 
 The law requires that all employees have a written contract that complies with minimum wage and safety requirements. It also strengthens the monopoly state-run labor union and makes it more difficult for companies to use temporary workers or to dismiss employees.
 Western companies that outsource to China say they have stepped up their monitoring of supplier factories to ensure they comply with the law. But they acknowledge that ensuring compliance is challenging in China. 
 A spokesman for the local Dongguan government here said that they were strictly enforcing the new law. But in interviews, some factory owners acknowledged that they were seeking ways to get around it, complaining that the law's regulations were too costly and cumbersome.
 Lawyers say some local governments have issued their own competing rules or interpretations of the law that weaken it, to aid factory owners.
 ''Many local governments want to develop their own versions of the law,'' says Liu Cheng, a professor of law at Shanghai Normal University and one of the law's authors.
 China's huge and complicated labor market has long thrived on cheap labor and lax regulation. In recent years, labor rights advocates say they have seen incremental gains for workers. But they say there are growing signs of labor abuse. They point to a string of recent cases, like one several weeks ago in which police in southern China's Anhui province said they had freed 30 mentally handicapped workers from what they called ''slave conditions'' in a brick kiln.
 On the same day, police said a fire in the dormitory of an illegal factory in southern Guangdong province killed 13 female workers and seriously injured four others.
 A few weeks earlier, 7,000 workers went on strike at a factory that supplies some of the world's biggest technology companies, saying they were being cheated on overtime wages and fed unsanitary food.
 Experts say cheating workers on wages, forcing them to log up to 200 hours of overtime a month and denying them health benefits is commonplace in China.
 Many factories are violating not just the new contract labor law, but also a 1994 law, which covered a broader set of labor and wage practices, they said. 
 ''The employment contract in many factories here is a mere scrap of paper,'' says Liu Kaiming, director of the Institute of Contemporary Observation, a labor rights group in Shenzhen. ''Here is a common trick: The factory signs contracts with 1,000 workers but actually they've hired 2,000. The factory reports to the government saying they have 100 percent of their workers registered.''
 Heather White, a consultant who has inspected factories in China for Tommy Hilfiger, Polo Ralph Lauren and other big companies, says many exporters evade the law by subcontracting to so-called shadow factories, which operate under illegal conditions.
 ''The market is penalizing anyone who complies with the law,'' she says, meaning their products are more expensive. ''And so many companies are subcontracting'' to shadow factories.
 Labor rights groups that specialize in sneaking into Chinese factories and documenting their flaws say exporters' multinational clients are also responsible for their suppliers' practices.
 ''They are blatantly violating the labor law,'' says Charles Kernaghan, director of the National Labor Committee, based in Pittsburgh, which last February issued a scathing report on a factory making keyboards for big tech companies. ''They're forcing people to work 12-hour shifts. Their overtime far exceeds the legal limit.''
 But factory owners say that labor law enforcement has been weak and selective for years, and changing the rules now could lead to chaos, drive up prices and force many factories out of business.
 ''The government hasn't given us time to adjust,'' says Huang Zhenyuan, vice president of the Taiwan Merchant Association of Dongguan, which represents thousands of factories. ''When we came to China there was no legal environment. Now all has changed; it's too sudden.''
 Because of the downturn, 20 million migrant workers have already lost their jobs, Beijing says. The government recently put rules in place restricting factories from making large-scale layoffs without giving the government notice.
 But on an individual level, the struggle between having a job and economic security, and safety and personal dignity can be wrenching.
 Liu Pan, the worker crushed to death, was hired shortly after he had turned 15. He operated a giant machine that turned out boxes in a plant that Disney concedes had recently passed third-party audits. His salary was about $175 a month.
 Workers found his mutilated body stuck in the machine on the afternoon of April 5. 
 Michael Li, a senior manager at Yiuwah, says the accident was not a reflection of labor conditions at the factory. He also said a Chinese government official helped manage the factory.
 But China Labor Watch, a nonprofit group based in New York, says it investigated conditions at the factory shortly after the death and found widespread violations of the labor law, including the hiring of children as young as 13, forced overtime and the failure of many workers to sign labor contacts.
 In a statement, Disney said only about 5 to 15 percent of the goods produced at Yiuwah were made for Disney and that Yiuwah had committed to correcting problems there.
 ''However, if improvement within acceptable and agreed upon time frames is not achieved,'' Disney said it would stop doing business with the factory.
 Yiuwah offered $22,000 to compensate for Mr. Liu's death, his family said. 
 Liu Hong, Mr. Liu's father, does not even know how to begin to measure such compensation. 
 ''I'm falling apart,'' he said as his wife tried to calm him. ''We are in the lowest class. So I still don't know if it's the highest compensation. I still wonder, because a life, a young life, is only worth $22,000?''
 He added, ''He was my only son, and he's the only grandson to my father.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Wang Xingqiong, left, and Liu Hong lost their son, Liu Pan, pictured below on his ID card, in a workplace accident.(PHOTOGRAPHS, ABOVE: RYAN PYLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES, BELOW: LIANG QING)(B1)
Workers exiting the Yiuwah Stationery factory in Dongguan. Safety has been neglected in China's southern manufacturing regions, experts say.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RYAN PYLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Liu Pan, 17 years old when he died, began working at 15.(B4) CHART: China Labor Cases: Last year, 693,000 labor dispute cases were accepted to be heard by Chinese courts, labor unions and arbitration bureaus -- almost double the previous year. Disputes may involve a single worker, or a larger group.(Source: China National Bureau of Statistics)(B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (90%); WORKPLACE ACCIDENTS (90%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); OUTSOURCING (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (76%); INSPECTIONS (76%); ACCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS (76%); RETAILERS (75%); LAYOFFS (73%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); MINIMUM WAGE (73%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (70%); PAPER & PACKAGING PRODUCTS (70%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); BRANDING (67%); MINIMUM WAGE LAWS (65%); EXPORT TRADE (65%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (64%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (64%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (63%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (62%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (93%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GUANGDONG, CHINA (90%); SOUTH CHINA (79%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2009



639 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 691 words

HEADLINE: Afghanistan's Failing Forces

 BODY:
The news from Afghanistan is grim. In the first week of June, there were more than 400 attacks, a level not seen since late 2001. President Obama was right to send more American troops to fight. That violence will surely increase as strengthened ground forces step up the pressure on Taliban and Al Qaeda sanctuaries. But it is also true that there can be no lasting security -- and no exit for American forces -- until Afghanistan has a functioning army and national police that can hold back the insurgents and earn the trust of Afghan citizens. Neither comes close today. 
 Washington has already spent 7 1/2 years and more than $15 billion on failed training programs. President George W. Bush's Pentagon never sent enough trainers (most of those available were assigned to Iraq) to systematically embed American advisers in Afghan Army units, an approach now paying dividends in Iraq. 
 It failed to pay Afghan soldiers a living wage, making it easy for Taliban and drug lords to outbid them for the country's unemployed young men. The Pentagon also neglected to keep track of weapons it gave out, like mortars, grenade launchers and automatic rifles. Tens of thousands disappeared, sold to the highest bidder and, in some cases, used against American soldiers. 
 Perhaps most fundamentally, American war planners never seemed to understand that a more effective Afghan Army and a more honest and competent police force could help persuade civilians that the war against the Taliban was more their own fight and not just an American war being fought on their territory. 
 With the Obama team giving Afghanistan the attention it requires, there is a chance to correct these mistakes. Four thousand more trainers are on the way, a dramatic increase over last year. A revived training effort will require the full engagement of the new American commander, Gen. Stanley McChrystal.
 In an overdue but welcome effort to protect Afghan civilians from errant airstrikes, one of General McChrystal's first acts in command was to impose strict new limits on air attacks except when needed to protect American and allied troops.
 The Bush administration planned to increase the Afghan Army from 90,000 troops to 134,000. That still won't be big enough to secure a vast, rugged country with a larger population than Iraq's. American planners propose expanding it to as many as 260,000 troops -- roughly the size of Iraq's Army. No decision has yet been made. 
 The Pentagon estimates that it would cost $10 billion to $20 billion over a seven-year period to create and train a force that size. Paying it would cost billions more, especially if the current $100-a-month salary is to become more competitive with the $300 the Taliban pays. 
 The total bill would still be a lot smaller than the cost of sustaining a huge American fighting force there. By the end of this year, there will 68,000 American troops in Afghanistan, costing American taxpayers more than $60 billion a year. 
 Afghanistan's national police force will have to be rebuilt almost from scratch. Kabul's central government is notoriously corrupt, but the tales from the field are even more distressing. Journalists for The Times have reported seeing police officers burglarizing a home and growing opium poppies inside police compounds. American soldiers complain of police supervisors shaking down villagers, skimming subordinates' wages and selling promotions and equipment. Muhammad Hanif Atmar, the interior minister, has pushed for greater accountability by senior police officials. He has a lot of work ahead of him.
 Several thousand more police trainers with experience in civilian law enforcement are needed. European NATO members can and should be providing more help. 
 There are high expectations for General McChrystal, based on his aggressive attitudes and past special operations success. The Taliban must be confronted head-on. To turn around the war, ordinary Afghans must begin to trust their own government more than they either fear or trust the extremists. Building an effective Afghan Army and police is critical to that effort. There is no more time to waste. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TALIBAN (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (88%); TERRORISM (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); POLICE FORCES (75%); LIVING WAGE (75%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (73%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (73%); AL-QAEDA (72%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (77%); STANLEY A MCCHRYSTAL (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (95%); IRAQ (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2009



640 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 837 words

HEADLINE: Something For Nothing

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
On May 12, the Senate Finance Committee held a hearing on health care reform. There was a long table of 13 experts, and a vast majority agreed that ending the tax exemption on employer-provided health benefits should be part of a reform package. 
 They gave the reasons that experts -- on right or left -- always give for supporting this idea. The exemption is a giant subsidy to the affluent. It drives up health care costs by encouraging luxurious plans and by separating people from the consequences of their decisions. Furthermore, repealing the exemption could raise hundreds of billions of dollars, which could be used to expand coverage to the uninsured. 
 Democratic Senator Ron Wyden piped up and noted that he and Republican Senator Robert Bennett have a plan that repeals the exemption and provides universal coverage. The Wyden-Bennett bill has 14 bipartisan co-sponsors and the Congressional Budget Office has found that it would be revenue-neutral. 
 The Finance Committee's chairman, Senator Max Baucus, looked exasperated. With that haughty and peremptory manner that they teach in Committee Chairman School, he told Wyden and the world that this idea was not going to happen. 
 In the World's Greatest Deliberative Body, senators don't run things. Chairmen and their staffs run things. During the spring, as the Obama administration faded to invisibility, the finance and health committees separately put together plans. These plans did not alter the employer exemption. They did build on the current system. They did include approaches that have been around since Richard Nixon.
 The problem with the committee plans is that they don't do much to change the underlying incentives, and consequently don't do much to control costs. ''The single most expensive option is to build on the existing system,'' says the health care costs guru John Sheils of the Lewin Group. 
 The C.B.O. measured the plans, and the results were devastating. A successful plan has to be revenue-neutral for the government over the next 10 years, and it has to reduce the total health care burden over the long term so the country doesn't go bankrupt. The Senate committee plans failed both criteria. They would cost the government more than $1 trillion this decade and send total health care costs zooming at least twice as fast as the economy as a whole.
 The C.B.O. reports sent shock waves through Washington. Senators and staffs began casting about for a way to get a good C.B.O. score. President Obama redoubled his rhetoric about fundamentally reducing health care costs. Everybody continued looking around for a compromise that could get a bipartisan majority.
 Now you might think that in these circumstances someone might take a second look at the ideas incorporated in the Wyden-Bennett plan, which already has a good C.B.O. score, bipartisan support and a recipe for fundamental reform. 
 If you did think that, you are mistaking the Senate for a rational organism. For while there are brewing efforts to incorporate a few Wyden-Bennett ideas, there is stiff resistance to the aspects that fundamentally change incentives.
 The committee staffs don't like the approach because it's not what they've been thinking about all these years. The left is uncomfortable with the language of choice and competition. Unions want to protect the benefits packages in their contracts. Campaign consultants are horrified at the thought of fiddling with a popular special privilege. 
 So the process is moving along as it has been. There is a great deal of talk about the need to restrain costs. There's discussion about interesting though speculative ideas to bend the cost curve. There are a series of frantic efforts designed to reduce the immediate federal price tag. Some senators and advisers suggest cutting back on universal coverage. Others have come up with a bunch of little cuts in hopes of getting closer to the trillion-dollar tab. The administration has ambitious plans to slash Medicare spending.
 But there is almost nothing that gets to the core of the problem. Under the leading approaches, health care providers would still have powerful incentives to provide more and more services and use more expensive technology.
 We've built an entire health care system (maybe an entire government) on the illusion of something for nothing. Instead of tackling that basic logic, we've got a reform process that is trying to evade it.
 This would be bad enough in normal times. But the country is already careening toward fiscal ruin. We've already passed a nearly $800 billion stimulus package. The public debt is already projected to double over the next 10 years. 
 Health care reform is important, but it is not worth bankrupting the country over. If this process goes as it has been going -- with grand rhetoric and superficial cost containment -- then we will be far better off killing this effort and starting over in a few years. Maybe then there will be leaders willing to look at the options staring them in the face. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TAX LAW (77%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (60%)

COMPANY: IDEAS INC (60%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334290 OTHER COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (60%)

PERSON: RON WYDEN (79%); ROBERT BENNETT (78%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); MAX BAUCUS (58%); RICHARD NIXON (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2009



641 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 953 words

HEADLINE: In Hawaii, Preparations For North Korea Threat

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

DATELINE: HONOLULU 

 BODY:
Hawaii has long lived with the threat of wipeout, whether by tsunami, volcano or foreign invader.
 Now the Obama administration says North Korea could launch a ballistic missile in the state's direction -- possibly around the Fourth of July, according to the Japanese news media -- prompting the United States military to strengthen defenses here.
 Antimissile interceptors are in place, the Defense Department said, and Hawaiians watched the other day as a giant, towering radar commonly known as the golf ball set out to sea from the base where it is normally moored. 
 But if lifelong residents like Gerald Aikau are on any state of alert, it would be the one telling him that his octopus, caught in the waters here with a spear and his bare hands, is overcooked.
 ''What are you going to do?'' Mr. Aikau, 34, a commercial painter, said as he proudly grilled his catch at a beachfront park. ''You are going to go sometime, whether it's on a wave, or a missile, or your buddy knocking you down and you hit your head.''
 Vulnerability, and a certain fatalism about it, are part of the fabric of life in this archipelago, 2,500 miles from the mainland and, as many residents seem to have memorized since the Obama administration raised the alarm last week, 4,500 miles from North Korea.
 People took comfort in the heavy, year-round military presence provided by several bases here but also wondered if it made the state more of a target. 
 In an interview Monday on CBS's ''Early Show,'' President Obama, who was born and spent much of his youth here, said, ''Our military is fully prepared for any contingencies'' regarding North Korea.
 Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates announced Thursday that the military had deployed ground-based interceptors and sea-based radar to help deflect any long-range missile from North Korea. Calls to Gov. Linda Lingle, a Republican, were referred to Maj. Gen. Robert G. F. Lee, the director of the State Department of Defense, who suggested that the threat was more saber-rattling from North Korea. He questioned whether its missiles had the technological capacity to go very far, but just the same, he said, the state was ready for hostile action.
 ''Our military assets should be able to protect us,'' said General Lee, whose duties include civil defense. ''We, like all states, are prepared for natural disasters down to terrorism.''
 He said the state's disaster sirens were working, and residents, as always, were advised to keep a three-day supply of food, water, medicine and other essentials in stock.
 ''Out here by ourselves, we have to be a little more prepared, just in case help does not get here quickly from the mainland,'' he said.
 Of course, the specter of Pearl Harbor still figures prominently here, as well as the cat-and-mouse of cold war maneuverings off the coast, including the mysterious loss of a Soviet ballistic-missile submarine 750 miles northwest of Oahu in 1968.
 ''We are first strike from Asia,'' said State Representative Joseph M. Souki, 76, a Democrat, who still remembers the wave of anxiety that swept his neighborhood on Maui as Pearl Harbor was bombed in 1941. ''It's not like we are in Iowa.''
 Still, he said, ''more than likely nothing is going to happen.''
 ''Hawaii is like a pawn in a chess game,'' he added.
 The state can ill afford anything approximating a calamity.
 The recession has been blamed for a nearly 11 percent drop in the number of visitors here last year compared with the year before. The seasonally adjusted unemployment rate in May reached 7.4 percent, up from 6.9 percent in April and the highest in three decades.
 The tourists that did come carried on as usual, taking surfing lessons, strolling Waikiki Beach and reflecting at the U.S.S. Arizona Memorial, where a park includes a display of old Polaris submarine-launched missiles.
 ''Send one of these babies up,'' Clifton Wannaker, 45, an accountant from South Dakota, said when told of the North Korean threat. He knocked on the missile's skin for good measure.
 Standing at the shoreline in view of the memorial, Steve Brecheen, 54, a pharmacist from Oklahoma City, seemed a bit more unnerved.
 ''North Korea seems the most unstable government as far as a threat to the U.S. is concerned,'' Mr. Brecheen said.
 He motioned to the memorial, which sits over the remains of the battleship sunk by the Japanese in the Pearl Harbor attack.
 ''In 1941, some of these people didn't think the Japanese were an extreme threat, and they got their minds changed pretty quickly,'' he said.
 But among Hawaiians, skepticism is mixed with annoyance and even anger that their state, hypothetically at least, could be a testing ground.
 ''I think they would be stupid to do that test,'' said Misioka Tauiliili, 39, a delivery truck driver, taking in the placid scene at a city beach near Waikiki. ''The U.S. should go out there and shake them.''
 By that he meant the United States perhaps firing its own rockets in North Korea's direction, ''to test them.''
 Mark N. Brown, 49, an artist painting nearby, was less bellicose. He said he took comfort in the steps the military had taken and remained concerned that an act of aggression by North Korea would lead to war.
 But, with a wry smile, he added that a neighboring island, far less populated but a bit closer to North Korea, would probably take the hit.
 ''It would hit Kauai,'' he said. ''We are on Oahu.''
 Mele Connor, 55, a lifelong Hawaiian shopping with visitors from the mainland at a clothing store in Waikiki, laughed off the threat.
 ''After North Korea, it will be somebody else,'' she said. ''They know Obama is from here, so they want something. Everybody wants something from our pretty little islands.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Misioka Tauiliili, at a family outing at Ala Moana Beach Park in Honolulu, suggested firing American missiles toward North Korea.
Navy missiles welcome visitors to the U.S.S. Bowfin Submarine Museum and Park.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARCO GARCIA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 A towering sea-based radar known as the golf ball is among additional antimissile defenses being positioned around Hawaii.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CRAIG T. KOJIMA/HONOLULU STAR-BULLETIN, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); TSUNAMIS (89%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); ARMED FORCES (76%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (74%); INTERVIEWS (69%); TERRORISM (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); ROBERT M GATES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HONOLULU, HI, USA (92%) HAWAII, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2009



642 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 770 words

BYLINE: By DWIGHT CASS and CHRISTOPHER HUGHES

 BODY:
The government's response to the credit crisis has been largely successful in warding off financial Armageddon. But as the banking system stabilizes, the Federal Reserve's emergency loan and market support programs could inadvertently start to subsidize unwise risk-taking. To avoid putting taxpayers on the hook again for Wall Street excesses, the Fed needs a clear strategy for winding the strategies down.
 Some are already waning. The amount extended under these liquidity facilities has shrunk by more than a third from its high late last year. The Fed chairman, Ben Bernanke, says these programs now account for less than $1 trillion of its balance sheet. 
 That's because private sources of short-term capital have bounced back. Today, a bank can borrow dollars on an uncollateralized basis for a month in the interbank market for about 0.30 percent, which is more attractive than a Fed loan requiring full collateral, even if it is slightly cheaper. 
 That's not to say the Fed's programs need to be eliminated altogether. Some could remain on the books for revival in future crises. But it would be best if they were made more expensive. For example, the minimum interest rates on Fed loans might be set above market rates so only distressed institutions turned to them. That would provide a safety net, but not a subsidy.
 Likewise, collateral requirements for some of the liquidity facilities, loosened during the crisis to allow banks to swap sometimes worrying assets for Treasury securities, could be tightened. The Fed took an important step in this direction two months ago when it reduced the value of some of the $1 trillion-plus of collateral it holds, resulting in a 10 percent decline in the total amount that could be borrowed against it.
 For the short-term liquidity facilities, which are no longer urgently needed, the government can act sooner rather than later. The country's immense borrowing requirements may push short-term interest rates up, making the Fed facilities attractive once again. If that happens, it will be harder for the government to snatch away the punch bowl.
 Any such resurgence could strain the Fed's balance sheet, which doubled to more than $2 trillion last year. Although liquidity facility borrowing since then has fallen more than $500 billion, it has been offset by the Fed's purchase of assets like Treasury bonds and mortgage-backed securities, and its growing support of the securitization markets.
 Mr. Bernanke says the Fed is working on a plan for withdrawing the programs and keeping vigilant so banks can't use the liquidity sloshing around to take unwarranted risks. Taxpayers hoping to avoid further losses had better hope he has exceptional timing.
 Bid for Mining Giant
 It's going to take more than nice words to lure Anglo American into a deal that creates a new entrant to the ranks of the world's superminers. The company, of South Africa, has rejected an offer by its rival Xstrata to engage in a merger of equals. 
 Xstrata, the largest exporter of coal, will need to dig into its pockets to pay a premium for Anglo American, a diversified mining giant, even to consider sitting at the negotiating table. Thankfully, the British-Swiss mining company Xstrata looks to be in a position to do that, without necessarily sacrificing its shareholders.
 Citigroup estimates the combination, which would vie with BHP Billiton and Companhia Vale do Rio Doce of Brazil for the title of world's biggest mining company, could slice out costs with a net present value of $12.5 billion and could make a merged Anglo-Xstrata worth just over $82 billion.
 That creates enough leeway for Xstrata to pay a premium to Anglo shareholders, and still make a deal valuable for its own. Suppose Xstrata wants to achieve a 10 percent boost for its own shareholders. That would mean its share of the combination would need to be $39.5 billion, leaving Anglo shareholders with a stake worth $42.9 billion, or 26 percent more than Anglo's market value before the talks surfaced last week. 
 If Xstrata were really keen on the strategic benefits of the deal and handed over all the value of the synergies to Anglo's shareholders, then Anglo's slice of the bigger pie would be worth $46.6 billion. That would make a 37 percent premium. 
 Of course, it would be unwise for Xstrata to give away all the potential value to be created from a combination. But if it wants to take control of its rival, the synergies should enable it to pay for the privilege.
 DWIGHT CASS and CHRISTOPHER HUGHES 
 For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ben Bernanke says the Fed is trying to ensure banks do not use aid recklessly.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); INTEREST RATES (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); BONDS (76%); SECURITIZATION (73%); INTERBANK LENDING (70%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (64%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2009



643 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1137 words

HEADLINE: Once at Odds, Bloomberg and Silver Pressure Port Authority on the Trade Center

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
Although the negotiations over the World Trade Center site have gone nowhere, the deadlock has produced something of note: a startling alliance between Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver.
 The former adversaries came together last week to rebuke the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey for its refusal to guarantee billions of dollars in financing for two office towers that the developer Larry A. Silverstein is to build at the trade center site.
 A joint statement united the developer's most persistent critic, Mayor Bloomberg, and Mr. Silverstein's most consistent champion, Mr. Silver. Until recently, any significant cooperation between the two would have seemed unlikely; Mr. Silver, after all, handed Mr. Bloomberg the biggest political defeats of his mayoralty: scuttling a proposed football stadium on the West Side of Manhattan in 2005 and blocking the mayor's congestion pricing plan in 2008.
 But Mr. Bloomberg has found ways to work with the speaker, now the most powerful politician in Albany. At the city's request, Mr. Silver got state money budgeted for Governors Island this spring; more recently, the Assembly approved the mayor's plan to raise the city's sales tax. 
 And the mayor publicly thanked Mr. Silver for his central role in the Assembly's passage of a bill on Wednesday concerning what is perhaps the mayor's most cherished issue: retaining mayoral control of city schools.
 The recent cooperation has some analysts questioning whether the mayor's change of heart had more to do with political prudence than real estate.
 ''This may well be a payback for Silver's support in Albany for continuing mayoral control of the schools,'' said Bruce F. Berg, a political science professor at Fordham University. ''I think he's also eager, given the upcoming election, to get something going in Lower Manhattan.'' 
 But Mr. Silver, whose district includes Lower Manhattan, said that although he and the mayor were now ''on the same page'' regarding the trade center, the notion of a quid pro quo was ''absurd.''
 Stu Loeser, the mayor's chief spokesman, said that Mr. Bloomberg's turnabout was based on a thorough analysis of the financial numbers and a ''deep concern about delays.''
 ''The mayor and the speaker share the view that it's in nobody's interest -- not the country's, not the city's, not the port's and not Mr. Silverstein's -- to have progress grind to a halt at the World Trade Center site,'' Mr. Loeser said.
 No matter the motivation, the mayor's position has certainly evolved rapidly. In 2006, Mr. Bloomberg called for Mr. Silverstein's ouster, saying, ''We need to push aside individual financial interests and focus on what's best for our city.''
 As recently as March, the mayor framed the reasons for the impasse and seemed to sympathize with the Port Authority, saying: ''What Larry did is take out all his equity at the beginning, so he really doesn't have a lot of skin in the game. He had an enormous amount of upside potential, which doesn't leave the Port Authority with a lot of negotiating ability, because they're the ones who have to put up the money.''
 But now, Mr. Bloomberg wants the authority to guarantee most of the financing for Mr. Silverstein's two towers, which are expected to cost $4.2 billion.
 ''I will say Larry Silverstein, while not turning over the keys to his family's net worth, has come up and has made a lot of progress,'' the mayor told reporters last week.
 Certainly, many of the city's civic groups, some developers, Port Authority officials and, to an extent, the governors of New York and New Jersey disagree with the mayor's new approach. Until now, no one ever conceived of the authority financing the office buildings at ground zero.
 Under a 2006 development deal, Mr. Silverstein had agreed to build three towers at an estimated cost of $7 billion with insurance money, tax-exempt bonds and private financing. Unable to secure anchor tenants or financing, Mr. Silverstein in recent months asked the Port Authority to guarantee what the authority said was $3.2 billion in financing for the first two buildings, leaving the third tower to be built further in the future.
 The authority reluctantly agreed to provide up to $1.2 billion for the first tower, which Mr. Silverstein is now building. But it balked at doing more, saying it would jeopardize the authority's capital projects at a time when revenue from tolls and airports is plunging. 
 ''We will continue to do all that we can at the trade center,'' said Christopher O. Ward, the authority's executive director, ''but you must recognize that this project could come at the expense of critical public projects such as La Guardia, expanding Stewart Airport, the Bayonne Bridge or a bus garage for the midtown bus terminal.''
 Instead of building two of the towers now, Mr. Ward suggested completing the foundations and low-scale structures for retailers, which at some point in the future could serve as structural podiums for high-rise towers above, much like those at the Hearst Magazine Building on Eighth Avenue.
 Two weeks ago, the Westfield Group, the Australian shopping mall operator, offered to invest as much as $1.3 billion to build a retail complex similar to Mr. Ward's proposal.
 But even before Westfield's offer, Mr. Silverstein and city officials had rejected the concept as impractical, although they had endorsed the very same notion in 2004. 
 There is progress on the 16-acre site. The Port Authority, which owns the land, is building a $3.2 billion transit center, underground portions of the Sept. 11 memorial and its own $3 billion skyscraper. Mr. Silverstein, who has collected more than $150 million in development fees, is rapidly erecting the first of his three office towers.
 Mayor Bloomberg, Mr. Silver and Mr. Silverstein contend that it is critically important to build the towers at ground zero as quickly as possible. By the time the towers are completed, they say, the economy will have rebounded. They argue that the Port Authority has exaggerated the value of its $1.2 billion offer to Mr. Silverstein and overestimated the risks to its capital budget. They concede, however, that some authority projects would have to be delayed to finance the towers.
 But some developers question the push to build that much office space so quickly when vacancy rates are climbing and tenants are scarce. At what may be better sites on Eighth Avenue in Midtown, the developers Mortimer B. Zuckerman and Stephen M. Ross recently canceled their plans to build two new office towers.
 ''The port's money is supposed to be used for transportation, not speculative office buildings,'' said the developer Douglas Durst. ''It doesn't make any sense to me to force the authority to do what the private developers won't do.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); PORT AUTHORITIES (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); APPROVALS (72%); LEGISLATION (72%); OFFICE PROPERTY (71%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (69%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (72%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (72%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2009



644 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: Only a Few Hills in the Valley of Christie's Season-Opening Art Auction

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
The summer auction season got off to a tepid start at Christie's on Tuesday night, when only a few paintings drew buyers' attention, including a Monet that sold for $10.2 million, one of the few high points of the evening. 
 It was a thin sale, with a mixed bag of Impressionist and modern art, nearly half the number of works of last year's auction and no blockbusters. The evening reflected the state of the economy: with prices for art having fallen significantly since autumn, Christie's experts had trouble cobbling together a sale because collectors refused to part with their paintings, drawings or sculptures unless they absolutely had to. Buyers -- primarily Europeans -- were cautious about spending money, and bidding was thin. 
 The combination of meager offerings and tight purse strings led Christie's to reduce some reserve prices -- a handful of works sold for less than their estimates -- and made for a dull night. ''When good things come up for sale, they make good money,'' said Edward Dolman, chief executive of Christie's, ''but much less is coming to the market.'' 
 Playing off the hit Gagosian exhibition of late Picassos that closed in New York last month, the evening's star work was Picasso's ''Man With a Sword,'' dated July 26, 1969. It was being sold by the Saudi Arabian Juffali family. One member bought it from the auction house here four years ago for $5 million. Experts predicted it would sell for $7.5 million to $10.6 million. Only two bidders were interested, and the work went for $9.3 million -- in the middle of the estimate -- to the Nahmad family, dealers with galleries in New York and London. 
 (On Wednesday night, Sotheby's is selling a far better Picasso musketeer, painted the day before the Christie's canvas and estimated at $8.9 million to $11.8 million.) 
 The Christie's sale brought a total of $60.4 million, just scraping past the low estimate of $60 million. By contrast, the house's comparable sale last June brought $284 million, with a Monet fetching more than $80 million alone. 
 Of the 44 works for sale on Tuesday, 14 failed to sell, including works by Matisse, Schiele and even another Picasso, this one from 1964. (Two items were withdrawn, including a colorful Bonnard landscape that is being considered by the Musee d'Orsay.) 
 Final prices include the commission to Christie's: 25 percent of the first $:25,000 ($41,000), 20 percent of the next $:25,000 to $:500,000 ($41,000 to $820,000) and 12 percent of the rest. Estimates do not reflect commissions. 
 The appetite for pretty Impressionist paintings, in evidence at the New York auctions in May, continued here. There were four bidders for ''At Parc Monceau,'' an 1878 Monet depicting a sun-dappled park, the image that decorated the cover of Tuesday night's sale catalog. It was being sold by Brook J. Lenfest, a Philadelphia philanthropist who bought it eight years ago for $5.2 million. On Tuesday it sold for $10.2 million, well above the $6.8 million high estimate. 
 Another of the evening's few bright moments centered on Miro's ''Painting (Woman Powdering Herself),'' a 1949 canvas of poured, splashed and dripped colors filled with the artist's sticklike figures. Four bidders vied for the work, which wound up selling to the Nahmads for $6.4 million, well over the high estimate of $4.2 million. 
 Prices for sculptures by Alberto Giacometti have been all over the place recently, and Christie's was selling a bust of Diego, the artist's brother, conceived in 1952 and posthumously cast in 1981. It sold to one of two telephone bidders for $1.6 million, just above the high estimate of $1.4 million. 
 James Roundell, a London dealer, said of Christie's after the sale: ''They worked it. It's obviously been difficult to get material.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Left, Monet's ''At Parc Monceau'' and, above, Miro's ''Painting (Woman Powdering Herself)'' sold for more than expected.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDY RAIN/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTIE'S) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (91%); ART DEALERS (90%); ART COLLECTING (90%); PAINTING (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); SCULPTURE (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); EXECUTIVES (52%)

COMPANY: CHRISTIE'S INTERNATIONAL PLC (92%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5999 MISCELLANEOUS RETAIL STORES, NEC (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (67%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (55%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); SAUDI ARABIA (77%); EUROPE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2009



645 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 747 words

HEADLINE: Despite Pleas for a Freeze, Stabilized Rents to Go Up

BYLINE: By MANNY FERNANDEZ

 BODY:
The board that regulates rents for New York City's one million rent-stabilized apartments ignored pleas from tenants and elected officials to freeze rents for the first time in its 40-year history and approved a set of modest increases on Tuesday.
 The nine-member board, known as the city's Rent Guidelines Board, authorized rent increases that were lower than last year's, approving increases of 3 percent on one-year leases and 6 percent on two-year leases. 
 Last year, the board approved its highest set of increases since 1989, 4.5 percent on one-year leases and 8.5 percent on two-year leases. That meeting was disrupted by tenants who blew on plastic whistles at an ear-ringing volume.
 On Tuesday evening at the Great Hall at Cooper Union in the East Village, the board's deliberations were marked at times not by noise but by virtual silence. 
 After a motion for a rent freeze that was put forward by a tenant representative on the board was struck down, dozens of tenants walked out in protest. Earlier, some had waved pieces of paper reading ''O%'' and chanted, ''Zero! Zero!'' Others placed tape across their mouths in a silent demonstration. 
 ''This is a severe recession,'' said Ronald S. Languedoc, the board member who put forward the motion for a rent freeze, adding, ''This is not the year to have a rent increase.''
 In the weeks leading up to the meeting, a number of elected officials had joined the call for a rent freeze, one of the first times that the push for a freeze had gathered significant momentum. The board has never approved one since it was established in 1969. The officials -- including the City Council speaker, Christine C. Quinn, and two mayoral candidates, City Comptroller William C. Thompson Jr. and Councilman Tony Avella -- said a freeze was justified by the state of the economy and reports by the board's staff that costs for landlords had not risen significantly.
 One of those reports found that operating costs for rent-stabilized buildings increased 4 percent from April 2008 to April 2009, far lower than a 7.8 percent increase in the same period a year earlier. Another report said net operating income in rent-stabilized buildings, the revenue that remains after operating expenses are paid, increased by 9.3 percent.
 Asked about a rent freeze on Monday, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, who appoints all nine board members, said he would leave the decision to the board. 
 After the 5-to-4 vote approving the increases, the board's chairman, Marvin Markus, said he would not say that a rent freeze would never happen. ''I don't like to use absolutes like never or always,'' he said, adding, ''Costs and the economy affect both sides.'' 
 The board also approved a controversial supplemental rent increase for tenants who have lived in their units for six years or more and whose rent is less than $1,000. Owners of buildings with those tenants have the option of charging them the approved percentage increases or a $30 monthly increase for one-year leases or $60 for two-year leases, whichever is greater. 
 Tenant advocates described it as a ''poor tax'' on longtime, low-income renters. After the board approved a similar supplemental increase last year, two legal aid groups, the Legal Aid Society and Legal Services NYC, sued the board seeking to overturn it. That case is still pending.
 At the heart of the debate over rent increases on Tuesday was the question of who was suffering the most in the recession -- tenants or landlords.
 Executives with the Rent Stabilization Association, which represents thousands of landlords who own rent-stabilized units, said landlords were reeling in the economic downturn and struggling to pay their bills and property taxes. Tenant groups said landlords were making significant profits and residents were the ones financially struggling.
 Joseph Strasburg, the president of the Rent Stabilization Association, said after the increases were approved that there were no winners on Tuesday. ''For many owners in the red, I don't feel this will help them.''
 The association has argued that the board's annual increases have not kept pace with costs. Tenants, however, maintain that landlords of rent-stabilized apartments are making significant profits because of the board's decisions. 
 ''Almost every other industry in our economy is suffering,'' said Mario Mazzoni, an organizer with the Metropolitan Council on Housing. ''Landlords on the other hand are doing better than ever.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Magda L. Cruz, left, and Steven J. Schleider at a meeting of the city's Rent Guidelines Board.
 Tenants at the meeting demonstrated with tape and signs, while dozens of others walked out. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUZANNE DECHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENT CONTROL (93%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); APPROVALS (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CITIES (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (72%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (66%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (66%); COMPANY EARNINGS (66%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2009



646 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 902 words

HEADLINE: After Griffin, It's Guesswork

BYLINE: By JONATHAN ABRAMS; Howard Beck contributed reporting.

 BODY:
When Blake Griffin takes a purposeful stroll of splendor across the stage Thursday night and locks hands with Commissioner David Stern, he will grin widely, unlike most other players whose professional careers began with the Los Angeles Clippers. 
 The Clippers have not exactly been clandestine after winning the N.B.A. draft lottery. Mike Dunleavy, their coach and general manager, immediately flew home from a scouting trip in Barcelona, Spain. And the Clippers held only one predraft workout with Griffin, who was the lone invitee.
 Being the No. 1 overall pick will bring comfort to Griffin, the all-American Oklahoma forward, but there will be uneasiness for his peers. 
 ''We've made it clear we're taking Blake Griffin,'' said Neil Olshey, the Clippers' assistant general manager. ''After that, it gets convoluted. There's a consensus on who the next three or four players are. The question of where those players end up will be based on trades and movement.''
 This draft is weak compared with previous years. The class is tall on guards and short on frontcourt players. 
 ''Most of us felt the last two drafts were loaded with really good college freshmen,'' said Fran Fraschilla, an ESPN analyst. ''Coming into this year in college basketball, there was a consensus that it was going to be a down year, and I think you see it manifesting in this draft.''
 The Spaniard Ricky Rubio and Arizona State's James Harden headline a class of guards that includes Memphis's Tyreke Evans, Southern California's DeMar DeRozan, Davidson's Stephen Curry, North Carolina's Ty Lawson, U.C.L.A.'s Jrue Holiday, Syracuse's Jonny Flynn and the high school star Brandon Jennings, who played in Europe. Their names could be spilled out in a dozen different ways. Each brings ''the flavor of the month,'' Fraschilla said. 
 ''Nobody really knows where they're going,'' Holiday said. ''Everybody's anxiety is up.''
 Teams looking for centers and forwards may have to look forward to a future class. The 7-foot-3 Hasheem Thabeet of Connecticut, the highest rated center despite a limited offensive repertory, will be selected more because of his size and potential.
 The Memphis Grizzlies select No. 2, and Rubio is widely viewed as the second-best prospect. But Rubio and his agent, Dan Fegan, have made it clear that Memphis is an unfavorable landing spot, and the Grizzlies have engaged in discussions with the Sacramento Kings about exchanging the second and fourth picks, according to a Western Conference executive who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he was speaking about another organization's dealings. 
 The Grizzlies could hold onto the pick and take Harden, who is viewed as the second-most N.B.A.-ready prospect behind Griffin. 
 ''Just about every player has significant upside, but also has a lot of question marks,'' ESPN's Jay Bilas said. ''I don't know about any player other than Blake Griffin that you feel overly confident about.''
 Several lottery teams are trying to move down, fewer are trying to move up, and the only certainty the draft holds is its uncertainty. 
 Daryl Morey, the general manager of the Houston Rockets, classified this draft as one of the deepest he has seen among point guards. League rule changes have cleared the way for a new flock of guards, shiftier and less physical, Morey said. 
 ''There's a lot of players because of their lack of physicality could not play 10-15 years ago when you could hand check and you had more post-up guys,'' Morey said. ''Now, there's not as much issue. It's about the speed game. But that's probably one of the easiest spots to get prospects because as you get taller, the pool gets shallower.''
 Trades will also be considered because of economics. Some teams will trim payroll as much as add talent. The Rockets do not have a pick, but that could change swiftly in a buyer's market. ''It will be very unpredictable in terms of who's going to go where,'' Morey said. ''There will be trades, guys who go in a different order than you expected. But it'll resolve itself very quickly because the talent is kind of shallow. If a guy slips, I don't think he'll slip that far.''
 Last year's draft was two-tiered, with Memphis's Derrick Rose and Kansas State's Michael Beasley as headliners. Beyond them, some wondered if any N.B.A. talent was salvageable. The class eventually evolved into one of the deepest in years.
 ''There are going to be good players where we are, so in that sense, I think it's a good draft,'' said Donnie Walsh, the president of the Knicks. They pick eighth. ''You have to wait two or three years to find out how really good was it. And there's some years you go thinking it's not a very good draft and then two years later, you wake up and these guys are starting, 1 through 20, and you think, Wow. That was a good draft.''
 This draft may develop in the same way. Griffin ascended to the top of his class with an all-around game. The rest of his draftmates have a case of the ''toos.'' Harden disappeared too often in the N.C.A.A. tournament. Rubio's buyout clause with Spain's DKV Joventut may be too much for some teams.
 Other players are tweeners or too raw. Even Griffin's jump shot from beyond the lane was askew during his workout with the Clippers. 
 ''Right at the end of the lottery, down to late in the first round, it'll be a crapshoot,'' Olshey said. ''But there's a lot of talent between 2 and 10.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Los Angeles Clippers have made it clear they will take the athletic forward Blake Griffin with the first pick in Thursday's draft. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE MURPHY/GETTY IMAGES)
 Griffin an all-American last season at Oklahoma, is prized for his well-rounded game. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DONNA MCWILLIAM/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%)

ORGANIZATION: LOS ANGELES CLIPPERS (94%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (91%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (72%) TENNESSEE, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); OKLAHOMA, USA (90%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (77%); CATALONIA, SPAIN (72%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2009



647 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1106 words

HEADLINE: For Sale In ... Chile

BYLINE: By VIRGINIA C. McGUIRE

 BODY:
HOUSE BUILT BY ARTISANS IN MAIPO CANYON, SANTIAGO
 340 MILLION CHILEAN PESOS ($630,000)
 This three-acre property in the Maipo River valley in the central Andes Mountains, with three houses and extensive organic gardens and orchards, is for sale by owner. Built by two brothers, the main house has three bedrooms and two baths with views of the river and the Andes. It was built using recycled materials, including the antique front doors and several windows framed in redwood imported from the United States. 
 The owners brought in a team of carpenters from the island of Chiloe, which is known for its craftsmen. The floors are eucalyptus. The house also has 12 kinds of native wood, as well as a round stained-glass skylight made by one of the owners. 
 The ground floor has two bedrooms, and a living room with a wood-burning stove that heats the whole house. The ceramic tile in the kitchen is locally made; there is a wood stove for cooking, as well as a modern gas range. The main bathroom is on the ground floor. 
 The master bedroom is in a semicircular space on the second floor; it has a ladder leading up to an enclosed cupola and a private terrace. The house also has a basement level with two rooms for household staff, an additional bathroom and a laundry room.
 The property has a spring that provides enough water for the houses and garden. Organic waste is processed using a permaculture system of native plants and earthworms. Electricity is the only utility supplied by the municipality.
 The other two houses are a one-bedroom and a three-bedroom. The property also has a greenhouse and extensive orchards. It takes 20 minutes to drive to the small town of San Jose de Maipo, which has restaurants and a market. The area's nature preserves attract many outdoor enthusiasts. This house is situated in a development that places green building restrictions on homeowners. About half of its 40 or so houses are vacation homes.
 The Maipo Canyon is a popular weekend destination for nature-lovers and foodies from Santiago, which is about an hour away by car or public transportation. The nearest airport, in Santiago, is a 50-minute drive.
 MARKET OVERVIEW
 ''There has been a major pull-back in the real estate market here,'' said Charles Spencer, co-owner of Spencer Global Consulting, a law firm in Temuco, Chile, that represents buyers in real estate transactions and advises foreigners seeking to relocate to Chile. 
 Rodrigo Orlandi, a lawyer with FAF International, a Santiago-based branch of First American Title Insurance Company, said in an e-mail message that the residential real estate market in Chile plunged as much as 40 percent late last year. He also said recent Central Bank interest rate cuts and homebuyer subsidies had helped offset the losses, aided by the flexibility of developers -- who in some cases have accepted an old property ''as partial payment for a new.''
 High demand and low construction costs caused overbuilding in coastal resort areas like Vina del Mar, a beach town with a Mediterranean feel about two hours from Santiago, according to Mr. Spencer. A few years ago, an apartment with an ocean view in Vina del Mar would have cost 80 million to 100 million pesos ($148,000 to $185,000). Now, some apartments sell for as little as 50 million pesos ($93,000), while houses in the area cost 70 million to 100 million pesos ($130,000 to $185,000). 
 Prices for undeveloped tracts of land in remote areas, which are popular with foreign buyers who want to build, have remained relatively stable. 
 Most foreign buyers in Santiago are multinational executives who work in the city, Mr. Spencer said. In Providencia, a popular section of the city, it is possible to find houses for 50 million pesos ($93,000), but Mr. Spencer says you can easily spend as much as 200 million pesos ($371,000) for houses up in the mountains on the edge of Santiago. He said he usually advised his clients not to spend more than 200 million pesos ($371,000) on any house in Chile, because construction costs are so low that it is often cheaper to build a new house. 
 There are some exceptions, in areas where available land is so limited that a price above 200 million pesos is reasonable. For the property featured here, ''Maipo Canyon is out of the norm,'' Mr. Spencer said. A national park, a nature preserve and military-owned land in the area mean that there are very few residential properties available, and the natural beauty and proximity to Santiago make the area one of the most expensive in the country.
 WHO BUYS IN CHILE
 Chile's foreign buyers come from Europe, the United States and Canada, Mr. Spencer said. Many Americans who want to retire abroad are now considering Chile because it is more affordable than the South of France or other expatriate retirement havens. Other buyers may have owned vacation homes in Argentina, Panama or Costa Rica, but are looking to Chile because it is believed to be more stable than other Latin American countries.
 BUYING BASICS
 It is easy for foreigners to buy real estate in Chile, Mr. Spencer said. The only requirement is a tax identification number, which can be obtained at a local tax office. 
 He explained that it was very common for the buyer and seller to work together directly in Chile, with no real estate agent involved. If an agent is hired, buyers and sellers traditionally split the commission, which is usually 2 to 3 percent of the sale price. In addition, most buyers hire a local lawyer to do a title search at the cost of 1 percent of the purchase price, Mr. Spencer said. 
 Notary fees vary by area, but Mr. Spencer said they were usually about 0.03 percent of the sale price. In most cases, the buyer and the seller split them. Registry fees are 0.04 percent of the sales price.
 If foreign buyers can't stay in Chile until the sale is complete, they can grant a power of attorney to someone who will complete the sale on their behalf. Mr. Spencer said it costs 50,000 pesos ($93) to draw up the necessary power of attorney paperwork within Chile, but as much as 150,000 pesos ($279) through the Chilean Consulate in a buyer's home country.
 In total, buyers should expect a property transaction cost of about 5 percent of the sales price, Mr. Spencer said.
 USEFUL WEB SITES
 City of Santiago: www.municipalidaddesantiago.cl
 Chilean government site: www.gobiernodechile.cl
 Central Bank of Chile: www.bcentral.cl/eng/
 LANGUAGES AND CURRENCY
 Spanish; pesos (1 peso = $0.0018)
 TAXES AND FEES
 Around 200,000 pesos per year ($372)
 CONTACT
 Marcelo and Rodrigo Condeza, owners, 011-56-65-234-892; www.casaenlamontana.cl

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (79%); HOMEOWNERS (79%); MOUNTAINS (78%); GREEN BUILDING (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); GARDENING (77%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (75%); RELOCATIONS (74%); TITLE INSURANCE (73%); REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS (73%); RESTAURANTS (67%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (60%); CENTRAL BANKS (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTIAGO, CHILE (92%) ANDES (92%) CHILE (97%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2009



648 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 526 words

HEADLINE: Rivals Unite to Protest Public Advocate Budget Cut

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

 BODY:
The five men vying to succeed Betsy Gotbaum as the city's next public advocate showed up together at City Hall Friday to demonstrate solidarity with Ms. Gotbaum over a critical issue: the viability of the office. 
 It was the first time the candidates appeared with Ms. Gotbaum since the campaign began in earnest earlier this year. Four are Democrats: Mark Green, a former public advocate; Norman Siegel, the well-known civil liberties lawyer; and two members of the City Council, Bill de Blasio of Brooklyn and Eric N. Gioia of Queens. The Republican candidate is Alex T. Zablocki. 
 The issue was not food stamps, or reproductive rights for women, or child abuse, or any of the other topics the public advocate's office is generally involved in. Instead, it was a 40 percent cut in the advocate's budget for the fiscal year that begins July 1, to $1.8 million from $2.9 million, adopted by the City Council on Friday. The cut, they concurred, was so draconian that it threatened the existence of the office, which functions, as mandated by the City Charter, as a government ombudsman and watchdog. 
 The group vowed to back any legislation that would give the public advocate -- and other offices obligated to function as government watchdogs, like that of the comptroller, the Conflicts of Interest Board and the Civilian Complaint Review Board -- an independent budget determined by a formula, and not politics. 
 To Ms. Gotbaum, the cut was a product of her outspoken opposition last fall to a change in the city's term limits law backed by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and City Council Speaker Christine C. Quinn. 
 ''This is not about me,'' she said. ''I have six months left in this office. It's about the institution. This is about good government.'' 
 Her would-be successors did not press the term limits connection. But they also said that they sensed politics at play. 
 Mr. Green, for instance, talked at length about the history of the office, before boiling down his concerns to a basic question: ''Here's the question I would urge you and you and all of you in a position to simply ask the mayor and speaker: 'Why has only the watchdog over City Hall been cut 40 percent?' '' 
 Mr. Gioia said that the cut was tantamount to intimidation by the mayor and the speaker. ''It's like in baseball, when the opposing pitcher throws a high hard one at a batter, just to give him a warning,'' he said. ''That should not be. Checks and balances are an important part of the city's government.'' 
 Ms. Quinn said last week that the notion that politics was behind the cut was ''ridiculous.'' Instead, she said that because of the extraordinarily grim economic forecast, many programs and agencies had to be cut, and that few Council members ultimately rallied to the defense of the public advocate's office. 
 Mr. Bloomberg, meanwhile, said Monday that he was not trying to eliminate the agency, but that whoever wins in November must make do with less money. 
 ''Nobody's suggesting cutting them out, but it may just, it may very well be that we cannot afford to have any one agency at the level that it was before,'' he said. ''So it's no slap.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The public advocate, Betsy Gotbaum, right, and those vying to succeed her gathered at City Hall. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JENN ACKERMAN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (89%); MAYORS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); TERM LIMITS (75%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (71%); WOMEN (69%); BASEBALL (66%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (55%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2009



649 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 488 words

HEADLINE: Bill Seeks to End Delays in Veterans' Care

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO

 BODY:
The House approved legislation on Tuesday that is intended to prevent delays in federal financing for veterans' health care programs, a problem that has disrupted services provided by the Department of Veterans Affairs for decades, officials say. 
 The bill, which has been a major lobbying priority of veterans' organizations in Washington, would allow Congress to appropriate funds for health care programs one year in advance. 
 Officials say that for 19 of the last 22 years, the department's budget has been approved late, usually because of fiscal wrangling on Capitol Hill. As a result, veterans' groups and officials say, the directors of veterans' health care centers and clinics have often been unable to proceed on time with new services, staff expansions or renovations. 
 ''Our veterans pay the price with fewer doctors, longer waiting times and more restricted access for the six million veterans using V.A. health care,'' said Representative Bob Filner, Democrat of California and chairman of the House Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
 Under current rules, if a new budget is not in place by the start of the federal fiscal year on Oct. 1, the Department of Veterans Affairs is required to operate on its previous year's budget. Often, those budgets have lacked money to pay for even existing programs because of inflation, contractual increases and growing caseloads. 
 Programs have often been postponed or canceled while hospitals and clinics await their new budgets, officials said. 
 ''If there were scheduled pay raises, we wouldn't have sufficient funds to maintain the status quo, because the pay raise would have to be paid,'' said Bob Perreault, a former director of veterans' health centers in Atlanta, Philadelphia and Charleston, S.C. ''That means we would not buy equipment and not do maintenance projects.'' 
 Veterans' groups say the problem has become more troubling as caseloads have grown with veterans returning from the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
 ''When you have a flat-line budget, you can't treat the new people coming into the system, which leads to rationing,'' said Peter Dickinson, a consultant to Disabled American Veterans, an advocacy group.
 A similar bill sponsored by Senator Daniel K. Akaka, Democrat of Hawaii and the chairman of the Committee on Veterans' Affairs, has bipartisan support and is expected to pass the full Senate. 
 President Obama has endorsed the idea of advance appropriations for veterans' health care. In testimony before the House veterans committee in March, Veterans Affairs Secretary Eric Shinseki said: ''The care our veterans receive should never be hindered by budget delays. I share the president's concern as well as his support for advance appropriations as a way to provide uninterrupted care.''
 In addition, the House Appropriations Committee approved a bill that appropriates $48.2 billion for veterans' medical care in the 2011 fiscal year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (91%); VETERANS (91%); BUDGETS (91%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); VETERANS HEALTH CARE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); APPROVALS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (88%); LOBBYING (78%); VETERANS LOANS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); HOSPITALS (73%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (69%); DISABLED PERSONS (68%); US PRESIDENTS (60%)

PERSON: DANIEL AKAKA (59%); BOB FILNER (58%); ERIC K SHINSEKI (57%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (68%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (53%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%); AFGHANISTAN (67%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2009



650 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 945 words

HEADLINE: Madison Avenue Positions Itself for a Recovery

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
AS signs of economic recovery fade in and out, it looks like ''Twilight Zone'' time on Madison Avenue.
 On one hand, conditions remain unsettled. There are still layoffs, pay cuts and furloughs at agencies large and small -- the result of reduced revenue as marketers reduce spending.
 On the other hand, as bad as it is for the advertising industry, there have been no echoes of Wall Street or Detroit with a collapse, closing or bankruptcy of a famous firm. There also seems, at last, to be new business to pursue, executives say, after months of uneasy quiet. 
 On the third hand (where ''Twilight Zone'' comparisons become especially apt), marketers still need help selling what they make, even if consumers are shopping more thriftily and less profligately. 
 ''While there are some signs that the world economy may be stabilizing and certain markets have begun to show resiliency, it will take time for that to be reflected in clients' marketing activity,'' said Frank Mergenthaler, executive vice president and chief financial officer at the Interpublic Group of Companies in New York, which owns agencies like Deutsch and Universal McCann. 
 ''So the key will be in finding the right balance,'' he added, ''to stay very focused on running the business efficiently but not lose sight of the long-term value of talent, since doing so would impact our ability to remain competitive when a recovery does ultimately take hold.''
 That means steps are finally being taken to attract and keep talented employees, among them starting agencies that offer opportunities to try something new. Deal-making is coming back, too, albeit with smaller sums changing hands than before the financial crisis.
 It is no longer about ''managing in a downturn,'' said Thomas L. Harrison, chairman and chief executive at the Diversified Agency Services division of the Omnicom Group in New York, but rather ''leading toward the upturn.''
 ''It is absolutely important for people to be prudently cautious,'' he added. ''But don't bury your head so far down in the sand you can't see the sun when it comes out.''
 The division, composed of almost 200 agencies in areas like direct marketing, public relations and health care marketing, is on the move again, taking what Mr. Harrison called ''reasonable risk.'' For instance, an agency named Gro360 is being opened to work in the increasingly popular realms of sustainability, natural products and socially responsible marketing.
 ''When I tell friends and colleagues what I'm doing, some say, 'Why would you start something in an economy that's in the state it's in right now?' '' said Bob Terry, who left another Omnicom agency, Colangelo in Darien, Conn., where he was chief engagement officer, to open Gro360 in Stamford, where he is president and chief creative officer.
 ''I tell them, 'The world is going to hell,' '' Mr. Terry said, laughing, '' 'and I'd like to be part of saving it.' ''
 ''No one is impervious to the times,'' he added, ''but the economy is going to turn. And if you can create something now that meets consumer needs, you'll have stronger and more sustainable -- no pun intended -- connections with them.''
 Mr. Harrison's division is also combining two regional public relations agencies, Ketchum and Pleon, to form a global agency, under the Ketchum name, that becomes one of the largest in its field.
 The goal is to position Ketchum to compete for worldwide assignments against giants like Burson-Marsteller, a unit of WPP; Edelman, part of Daniel J. Edelman Inc.; and Weber Shandwick, owned by Interpublic. 
 There is more to come, Mr. Harrison hinted, including ''something in health care,'' which he plans to introduce in January.
 Along with start-ups, acquisitions are resuming, as demonstrated twice last week with deals intended to help agencies expand into new spaces and places.
 Sapient, a digital expert, is getting into offline advertising with the acquisition, for $50 million, of the Nitro Group, which creates campaigns for marketers like ConAgra, Mars and Nike. Sapient will be reorganized into three units: Sapient Interactive, Sapient Nitro and Sapient Consulting.
 ''We absolutely did the step-back at the end of last year and asked ourselves, 'What will this economy bring?' '' said Alan Herrick, president and chief executive at Sapient in Boston.
 The answer was ''this is the time to extend our leadership to help our clients solve their problems,'' he added, as ''they are under huge pressure to figure out multichannel marketing'' -- that is, the right mix of ads in traditional media like TV and in new media like the Internet.
 And Crispin Porter & Bogusky, part of MDC Partners, is significantly beefing up its presence overseas by acquiring, for undisclosed terms, an online specialist named Daddy, based in Gothenburg, Sweden. Daddy becomes the C.P.& B. Europe operation for Crispin Porter, which has dual domestic headquarters in Miami and Boulder, Colo.
 Making a major deal ''obviously gave us pause,'' said Jeff Hicks, chief executive at Crispin Porter. ''We'd been working on it for close to a year and didn't foresee where we are now when we started on it.''
 ''We had to take a gut-check: 'Did all this change our strategy?' '' he added. ''It did not, because we've never been a company that plays a lot of defense -- although the payoff may lag a little longer than we thought.''
 Balancing the reality that ''there's no hiding'' from the recession is a belief that ''we are doing things at a time when our peers are not,'' Mr. Hicks said, ''and the end, if not near, is coming.''
 Besides, he added, ''a lot of companies are for sale that were never for sale before.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Among new ventures, an agency called Gro360, led by Bob Terry, below, will focus on socially responsible marketing. It helped with a packaging overhaul, above right, for Natural Dentist. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); DIRECT MARKETING (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); HEALTH CARE (50%)

COMPANY: OMNICOM GROUP INC (85%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (84%); DIVERSIFIED AGENCY SERVICES LTD (53%)

TICKER: OMC (NYSE) (85%); IPG (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (85%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (85%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (85%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2009



651 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1201 words

HEADLINE: As China Stirs Economy, Some See Protectionism

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: HONG KONG 

 BODY:
China has begun a concerted effort to keep its export economy humming, even as demand for its goods has plummeted with the global downturn.
 Risking the ire of the United States and other trading partners, the Chinese government has quietly started adopting policies aimed at encouraging exports while curbing imports, even though China, as one of the world's largest exporters, has aggressively criticized protectionism in other countries.
 The government has sharply expanded three programs to help exporters, giving them larger tax rebates, more generous loans from state-owned banks to finance trade, and more government-paid travel to promote themselves at trade shows around the world. 
 At the same time, Beijing has banned all local, provincial and national government agencies from buying imported goods except in cases where no local substitute exists. 
 The rule, issued as part of the country's economic stimulus plan and enforcing a seldom honored Chinese law from 2003 favoring domestic suppliers, exploits China's failure so far to sign a global agreement barring protectionism in government procurement.
 And in an effort to strengthen its own exporters, it is limiting how much of certain key raw materials can leave the country. 
 Ron Kirk, the United States trade representative, announced on Tuesday that the United States and the European Union had filed a complaint with the World Trade Organization accusing China of limiting exports like bauxite and zinc, of which China is one of the world's largest producers, to give an unfair advantage to Chinese manufacturers that use the materials. 
 China denied Wednesday that it had broken W.T.O. rules in the dispute, but the issue is likely to feed criticism of China.''China is not only continuing but accelerating many of the protectionist approaches they've taken in the past to promote economic development,'' said Michael R. Wessel, who was appointed by Nancy Pelosi, the speaker of the House, to the United States-China Economic and Security Review Commission. 
 The policies could help ensure that China's economy continues to grow, but at the risk of increasing global trade tensions at a sensitive time when more countries are resorting to administrative measures to restrict trade and the W.T.O. has warned against protectionism.
 The policies also fly in the face of China's own promises and incentives to build an economy based on domestic consumption as well as international exports.
 ''The focus on maintaining export competitiveness to prevent job losses is clearly trumping longer-term considerations of rebalancing growth and reducing reliance on exports,'' Eswar S. Prasad, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution in Washington, wrote in an e-mail message. ''But this is a dangerous strategy. Protectionist measures, both explicit and implicit, could be difficult to pull back.''
 In other moves, Beijing has halted the rise of the renminbi against the dollar by intervening heavily in currency markets, dumping billions in renminbi and buying dollars and other currencies.
 Provincial governments also appear to have cut back on their enforcement of counterfeiting laws and other intellectual property protections. Chinese consumers have less need to buy imported goods when they can buy much less expensive copies manufactured locally.
 In March, Prime Minister Wen Jiabao announced that his country would rely on domestic consumption to keep the economy growing as exports shrank in the global downturn. The pronouncement was greeted with a mixture of delight and skepticism by economists and governments the world over, but the skeptics appear to have been borne out.
 Despite the havoc the global downturn has wreaked on export-driven economies -- exports are down 45 percent in Japan -- China's exports to the United States fell only 12.1 percent in the first four months of this year, compared with the same period last year.
 Over the same interval, American exports to China dropped 17.2 percent.
 Yet the American trade deficit paradoxically narrowed to $67 billion, from $75 billion, for these periods. That is because the trade is so lopsided that a shrinkage of overall trade results in a smaller deficit even when American exports drop faster.
 The United States imports more than $4 worth of goods from China for every $1 of goods that it exports to China.
 Chinese officials and economists are quick to defend their country's policies. 
 Qiao Yu, an economist at Tsinghua University, said that China did not produce some kinds of equipment and would need to import them. ''I think there is room for foreign producers to take some shares of the stimulus package,'' he said.
 Taking just one example, Li Junfeng, an official at China's top economic planning agency, said recent complaints from foreign wind turbine manufacturers about domestic purchasing rules were without merit. These manufacturers have factories in China and can use them to fill Chinese orders, he said.
 Moreover, Mr. Li said, many purchasing officials in China have a reflexive preference for foreign brands and fail to consider domestic alternatives.
 Mr. Li's agency, the National Development and Reform Commission, ordered on June 4 that government agencies buy only Chinese goods of all types with money from the government's stimulus program. Yet early this year, China criticized a much narrower preference for American-made steel in Mr. Obama's economic stimulus plan.
 Under the rules of the World Trade Organization, China is prohibited from discriminating by nationality in the purchasing of goods -- except for government procurement, which is covered by a separate W.T.O. agreement that virtually all industrialized nations have signed. When China joined the W.T.O. in November 2001, and gained full access for its exports to foreign markets, it pledged to join the agreement on government procurement ''as soon as possible.''
 Subsequent talks in Geneva produced no progress, leaving China, with its enormous state sector, free to favor domestic suppliers in government contracting.
 At the same time, the plunge last winter and this spring in Chinese exports has resulted in a shift by many Chinese factories from exports only to a shared reliance on export and domestic markets, said Merle A. Hinrichs, the chairman and chief executive of Global Sources, a Hong Kong company that connects Chinese suppliers with Western buyers. These factories do not always pay licensing fees for patents transferred to them for exports but then used to supply the domestic market.
 Richard Gould, the manager of southern China operations at CBI Consulting, a Shanghai-based investigative firm specializing in intellectual property, said cutbacks in enforcement of intellectual property laws stemmed in part from policies aimed at temporarily reducing the regulatory burden on Chinese businesses.
 No reliable data are available on counterfeiting in China, however. Because it is illegal, companies do not report figures. Estimates are based on the value of goods seized in police raids.
 Counterfeiters ''have a very good sense of the legal system,'' Mr. Gould said. ''They really don't think they're going to be raided.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Cargo containers at a port in Shanghai. China has expanded aid to exporters. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EUGENE HOSHIKO/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.B1)
A mural at a Beijing shop echoes efforts to support exporters through tax rebates and loans from government-owned banks. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIU JIN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
 Ron Kirk, the United States trade representative. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL J. RICHARDS/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESS) (pg.B4) CHART: A LINGERING DEFICIT: As the trade deficit with China has started to narrow because of economic weakness in the United States, the Chinese government has taken a series of steps to increase exports and limit imports. (Source: U.S. Census Bureau via CEIC Data) (pg.B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (92%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); PROTECTIONISM (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); EXPORT PROMOTION (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); TRADE DISPUTES (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); IMPORT CONTROLS (77%); CURRENCIES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); CONSUMPTION (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); TAX LAW (70%); TAX RELIEF (70%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (67%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (54%)

PERSON: RON KIRK (64%); NANCY PELOSI (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); EAST CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); HONG KONG (79%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2009



652 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1298 words

HEADLINE: Discounts Force Chains To Eat Their Own Lunch

BYLINE: By WILLIAM NEUMAN

 BODY:
Consumers brave enough to pull out their wallets in this economy have grown accustomed to fire sales on every kind of merchandise, from fancy dresses to gas-guzzling cars. Now, add another item to the list: the casual restaurant meal.
 The informal, sit-down restaurant chains that blanket the nation are fighting their most intense price war in years. Applebee's is offering dinner for two for $20. Ruby Tuesday is handing out coupons for two entrees for the price of one. Chili's, not to be outdone, is promoting some entrees for $7 or less. 
 ''It's a tit-for-tat pricing war right now,'' said Steve West, an analyst with Stifel Nicolaus, a brokerage firm in St. Louis. ''Each one's trying to outdo the other in a battle for consumers.''
 The sit-down casual segment of the restaurant industry has traditionally competed more on advertising and location than price, but these days, the chains appear to have little choice. Consumers hurt by the recession are eating out less. So the restaurants are fighting one another for that shrinking pool of diners, using deep discounts, heavily advertised on television, to attract them. 
 The customers who do venture forth are delighted. ''This is really an incentive for us to go out,'' said Norma Rosado Blake, 38, an archivist, as she stood outside a T.G.I. Friday's restaurant in Clifton, N.J., with her husband the other night, for an offer entitling her to $8 off. 
 But even as the chains compete to come up with the best deal, some of the analysts who follow them are worried. They fear that, as was the case with merchandise retailers that sold luxury goods for 80 percent off, the restaurants are hurting their long-term prospects by training customers to eat out only when they are offered a bargain. 
 ''The problem with that is once you start dealing, you've got to deal forever,'' said Harry Balzer, the chief food industry analyst for the NPD Group, a consumer marketing research company.
 The heavy discounting is leading to tensions between the people who, as independent franchisees, operate many of the restaurants, and the corporate officers who control the brands, menus, advertising and strategy. The franchisees agree that discounts can get customers in the door, but wince at what they can do to profit margins.
 A T.G.I. Friday's promotion in April and May offering $5 sandwiches and salads led to a small-scale revolt among franchisees. Ross Farro, who has seven T.G.I. Friday's restaurants in Ohio and Pennsylvania, said the promotion included salads that normally sell for as much as $10 and a steak sandwich priced at $11.89 on the regular menu. The ingredients alone for each steak sandwich cost about $4, he said. 
 The promotion brought in a flood of customers, but Mr. Farro said he could hardly afford to feed them. Within days of the promotion's start in late April, many franchisees began complaining to the chain's parent company, Carlson Restaurants Worldwide. 
 The promotion was supposed to run at lunch and dinner, but Mr. Farro said he and some other franchisees put away the $5 menu inserts at night to stop the bleeding 
 Franchise owners ''were very upset that we're getting hammered here, we're giving the food away,'' Mr. Farro said. In contrast, he said, another promotion offering two-for-one entrees had worked well. 
 Brad Honigfeld, chief executive of the Briad Group, which runs 69 T.G.I. Friday's franchises in seven states, said he considered the $5 promotion a success because it greatly increased lunchtime traffic. 
 ''My ultimate goal as an operator is I need to drive traffic, and if that traffic is going to Applebee's or going to Chili's, I need to take that traffic away,'' Mr. Honigfeld said. ''We are in a fierce competitive environment today.'' 
 Unhappiness over the $5 deal has led some Friday's franchisees to press Carlson for a rebate on royalties they pay the company. Carlson would not discuss the rebate issue. 
 ''Like most promotions, the short-term economics were tough, but the long-term payoff comes from highly satisfied guests who become valuable loyal guests, which is critical for the health of our brand and franchisees,'' Nick Shepherd, Carlson's chief executive said in a statement.
 The economic crisis has occurred at the worst possible time for the chains. For years they expanded rapidly. Technomic, a restaurant consulting firm, said that the number of chain restaurants devoted to casual dining (an industry term for midprice lunch and dinner restaurants that typically serve alcohol and have waiter service) rose to about 10,000 last year, from about 7,000 in 1995. 
 The economics worked in part because the chains steadily raised their prices. But some analysts said the quality of the food did not always keep pace -- and as the economy soured, consumers began casting a skeptical eye on prices like $18 for grilled chicken breasts and $16 for herb-crusted tilapia.
 ''Restaurant prices were high, and in many cases the quality from a consumer perception just didn't justify the pricing,'' said Bob Goldin, an executive vice president of Technomic.
 Now, forced by the recession into discounting, the chains are going beyond traditional advertising to get the word out. They are creating Internet clubs where people can sign up for coupons. T.G.I. Friday's, which has nearly 600 stores in the United States, said it had signed up more than one million club members in less than a year.
 One of those is Steve Mosior, 52, a Heineken sales supervisor. On a recent trip to T.G.I. Friday's in Wayne, N.J., he took advantage of a two-for-one entree deal and used coupons for a free appetizer and a half-price drink.
 ''Coupons are found money,'' Mr. Mosior said. But he added that once he is in a restaurant he will often buy items not covered by the discounts, such as dessert. 
 That is exactly what restaurateurs hope will happen. But Mr. West, the analyst, said it had not been happening enough. ''These guys are coming in just for that deal, and they're not buying the soda, they're stiffing the waiter on the tip, they're drinking water and they're leaving,'' he said. 
 Malcolm M. Knapp, a restaurant consultant who collects data from thousands of casual dining chain restaurants, said that preliminary figures for May showed that sales were down 6.7 percent from May 2008, when comparing restaurants that had been in business a minimum of 16 to 18 months. The number of customers was also down, but not as much.
 ''Dollar sales are decreasing at a faster rate than traffic because the promotions are bringing people in,'' Mr. Knapp said. ''But when you have deep discounts it takes much more traffic to have a positive sales situation.''
 On a recent evening, an Applebee's in Clifton, N.J., was nearly full. The manager, John Butcher, said that about 80 percent of his customers on a typical night were choosing the $20 promotion, which features two entrees and an appetizer (ordered a la carte, the items could total $31). Despite all the business, he said sales were down about 7 percent from a year ago. 
 Rick Hendrie, senior vice president for marketing at Uno Chicago Grill, which is offering a $9.99 meal of pizza, salad and dessert in some cities, said the deluge of competing discounts made it difficult to reach consumers. ''In some ways it's a real challenge because everybody is screaming the same thing: X number of items for $9.99 or less, or buy-one-get-one,'' Mr. Hendrie said. 
 He also cautioned that some chains were discounting too deeply and risked hurting their brands.
 ''I believe, this is my own marketing philosophy, that you degrade your brand value if you'resaying, this is not worth but half,'' he said. ''At some point people go, 'I guess it's not really worth what they charge.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ads, clockwise from top left, feature discounts offered by Uno Chicago Grill, Applebee's and T.G.I. Friday's in what has become a price war. The $5 sandwich and salad promotion at Friday's led to a revolt by some franchisees, who said they could not afford to feed the diners it attracted. (pg.B5) DRAWING 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASUAL DINING RESTAURANTS (90%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); FRANCHISING (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); MARKET RESEARCH (79%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (79%); DINING OUT TRENDS (79%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (79%); RETAILERS (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); FRANCHISEES (77%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (77%); PRICE CUTTING (76%); LUXURY GOODS (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (70%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (67%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (67%); EXECUTIVES (60%)

COMPANY: RUBY TUESDAY INC (57%)

TICKER: RT (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (57%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (56%) NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (56%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2009



653 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; MAN IN THE NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1108 words

HEADLINE: A Uniting Force Behind the Scenes

BYLINE: By ALAN SCHWARZ

 BODY:
When Michael Weiner is someday asked to be grilled on one of the Sunday morning news programs -- as the heads of major sports unions are during periods of inevitable labor strife -- the David Gregorys and Bob Schieffers will have to get in line behind the fourth and fifth graders at the Jewish Center of Northwest Jersey.
 Every week, Weiner and his trademark blue jeans stride down to his basement classroom and teach Sunday school to one of the few congregations less orderly than major league baseball owners. Weiner may soon become one of sports' more public, powerful and potentially fractious figures, when a formality vote among major league baseball players this summer confirms him to replace the retiring Donald Fehr. But as Weiner's rabbi, Ellen Lewis, said with a chuckle Tuesday, ''Anybody who can teach Sunday school to a bunch of fourth and fifth graders can handle just about anything.'' 
 An anchor role in baseball's often nasty pastime-or-business identity crisis will almost certainly test Weiner's reputation for being a stunningly regular guy. He wears blue jeans and Chuck Taylor All-Stars to all but the most solemn of affairs. He is the son of a New Jersey construction worker. He suspects that the last time he combed his unruly and increasingly occasional hair was before his sister's 1998 wedding.
 But just as Weiner's contemporaries smile at his quirks, they emphasize that he also may be the smartest person they have ever known. It is this duality that makes Weiner, the union's general counsel, so popular among the players he represents and the management side he negotiates with; whether it resonates with fans will be learned after he is elected and has to call a news conference someday, perhaps to deliver bad news -- up to and including a strike.
 ''When I've had issues to be resolved and needed assistance from the other side, he's the guy I would pick up the phone and call,'' said John Westhoff, a vice president of the Detroit Tigers who also dealt with Weiner during two decades as a lawyer in the commissioner's office. ''He's not so dogmatic where every issue had to go to arbitration. When you try to reach an amicable settlement, he's the guy to go to. I'm very hopeful that that will translate in his new position.''
 Weiner, 47, grew up in Pompton Lakes, N.J., about 20 miles from New York with two younger siblings. His father, Isaac, began a construction company in nearby Paterson with his own brother, Paul -- Pike (as in Paul and Ike) Construction still exists -- and was known for holding his own in the challenging New Jersey construction scene. Michael was such a devout Yankees fan that when his grandparents took him to Game 3 of the 1969 World Series, he silently rooted for the Orioles rather than the Mets. Alas, the Mets won the game, 5-0, and the Series a few days later.
 A middling third baseman on the Pompton Lakes High School baseball team, Weiner graduated from Williams College in 1983 with a degree in political economy and Harvard Law School three years later. He then spent two formative years clerking for United States District Court Judge H. Lee Sarokin. Weiner said Tuesday that working for Sarokin, who was known for his geniality and humor on the bench, reassured him that difficult proceedings can withstand a dash of humanity.
 ''I've always believed that humor has a place in almost any setting,'' Sarokin, now retired in Southern California, said in a telephone interview. ''It shows the lawyers and litigants that you're a human being. It engenders respect and, frankly, affection. Winners always love you -- how the losers think of you is the mark of a good judge. If some of that rubbed off on Michael, I'd be very proud.''
 Sarokin introduced Weiner to his best friend from law school, Larry Fleischer, a longtime force in the N.B.A. players union; Fleischer introduced Weiner to Fehr, who hired him as a union lawyer in 1988. 
 Over 20 years, Weiner's role has grown to the point where he was the primary negotiator with ownership over the labor contract in 2002, when a work stoppage was narrowly averted for the first time in decades, and 2006, when a strike was never a discernible threat.
 Many baseball observers, from team executives to players, have credited Weiner (and his ownership counterpart, Rob Manfred) with easing longtime tensions between the sides. The owners' colluding to strangle the free-agent market in the mid-1980s soon after Fehr's first deal with them left him and his deputy, Gene Orza, forever suspicious of management motives. Weiner came of age after the specter of collusion had receded, and he was able to forge fresh and less rancorous relationships with new ownership personnel.
 Weiner brushed off any credit for the change in an interview Tuesday, saying that the personalities of the negotiators still would not have averted work stoppages like those in 1990 and 1994, the latter of which canceled the World Series and bled into the next season.
 ''I guess I'd like to think that my approach to the negotiation assisted, facilitated, had some role to play,'' said Weiner, who lives in Warren County, N.J. He and his wife, Diane, have three daughters ages 18, 16 and 12.
 ''Butover my 21 years at the association,'' he added, ''I would say there has been a greater acceptance by the owners and by the commissioner's office of the role the union has in the game and in the business. When I started, I think there were substantial factions of people on the management side who begrudged the union or viewed the union clearly as an enemy. At this point, there is a respect or an understanding that the union is a part of the picture and a part of the picture that can be positive.''
 Manfred, baseball's executive vice president for labor relations, described Weiner as ''tough and smart but also fair.'' 
 He added, ''Over the years, we have found creative ways to bridge our differences.''
 How those differences manifest themselves publicly, especially during what might become tense negotiations over a new labor agreement two years from now, remains uncertain. Several team executives this week said Weiner had thrived in handling almost every union matter privately and personally, but there was no way to predict how he will transition to a public figure seen, accurately or not, as a caretaker of the sport. He is the leader to be blamed later.
 Either way, it may not take long for fans to notice a change at the top. Fehr could alienate fans by flaunting his intellect, even quoting ancient philosophers to make his points. Expect Weiner's maxims to come from a more local sage, name of Springsteen.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Michael Weiner is expected to become the new head of the major league players union. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MLBPA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); BASEBALL (90%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (76%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (70%); CONSTRUCTION (65%); LAWYERS (65%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (64%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (61%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2009



654 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 900 words

HEADLINE: Putting New York Back Together

BYLINE: By RUDOLPH W. GIULIANI. 
Rudolph W. Giuliani was the mayor of New York from 1994 to 2001.

 BODY:
NEW YORK STATE government is not working. This has been true for some time. But the paralysis and confusion that has overtaken the capital demonstrates the need to confront this dysfunction directly and take decisive steps to solve it once and for all. That's why I'm calling on Albany to convene a state constitutional convention. 
 This is not a partisan criticism. There is enough blame for all to share. Recently, though, the situation in our state has gone from bad to worse. 
 There are more New Yorkers unemployed than at any time in 33 years, and the poverty rate is rising. Our combined state and local tax burden is the highest in the nation after New Jersey. Our business tax climate is rated the second worst in the country. And in the face of the worst recession in a quarter-century, the State Legislature decided to increase spending by 9 percent while increasing taxes and fees by $8 billion. No wonder a recent poll showed that more than 20 percent of New Yorkers are thinking of leaving the state in search of lower taxes and fewer government mandates. 
 Over the course of New York's history, our state has held seven constitutional conventions, one as recently as 1967. Calling another convention would be an extraordinary step, but it is a necessary and effective way to overcome the challenges we face. It would be an opportunity for Republicans, Democrats and independents to come together, take a long hard look at our problems and then propose real, lasting solutions. 
 If the State Legislature were to approve the measure in the next few weeks, New Yorkers could vote on whether to proceed with a constitutional convention this November. A ''yes'' vote would move the process forward, allowing voters to choose a slate of delegates in November 2010. After the convention took place, the recommendations would be put forward to the people for an up-and-down vote. 
 The specific measures should be left to the convention itself and then judged by the voters. But to start the debate I offer seven recommendations for reform. 
 THE BUDGET PROCESS The governor should be empowered to set revenue estimates on his own, as the mayor of New York City does, adjusting future spending against responsible benchmarks rather than unrealistic estimates. The budget should conform to generally accepted accounting principles, and there should also be a formal four-year financial plan allowing for transparency and long-term planning. Finally, if a new budget is not adopted by April 1, the previous year's budget should be automatically continued. 
 TERM LIMITS All statewide elected officials and members of the Legislature should be term limited to bring new blood into Albany while stopping the careerism that too often blocks real progress. A citizens' legislature would be more effective in addressing New Yorkers' problems with a fresh perspective. 
 REDISTRICTING New York's Legislature has been called the most dysfunctional in the nation, yet Albany legislators enjoy a 98 percent re-election rate. They avoid accountability through partisan gerrymandering, which has reduced the number of competitive elections, depriving millions of voters of real choices. 
 An independent commission, rather than the legislators themselves, should draw up district lines to ensure the system is not rigged to reward incumbent legislators or one party over another. 
 CAMPAIGN FINANCE Special interests have a disproportionate influence over state politics in large part because of a weak campaign finance system with high contribution limits and lax disclosure requirements. Individuals can give up to $55,900 to gubernatorial candidates and $15,500 for State Senate candidates. Unions and other special interests exploit loopholes that allow millions of dollars worth of phone banks, volunteers and other in-kind contributions. There are no regular audits and minimal fines, and an unlimited amount of money can be transferred to candidates from party committees. 
 SUPERMAJORITY FOR TAX INCREASES Too often increasing taxes is the first impulse for Albany legislators. Requiring a supermajority for tax increases would provide a powerful check on those who still think we can tax and spend our way out of economic problems. A supermajority would protect already over-burdened citizens and attract businesses, improving our long-term competitiveness.
 JUDICIAL PAY The integrity of an independent judiciary depends on being able to attract qualified people who are not beholden to party bosses and power brokers. Instituting an automatic cost-of-living adjustment on an improved base salary would take the politics out of judicial pay raises. 
 SUCCESSION FOR LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR Over the last 40 years, New York has been without a lieutenant governor three times. The lack of any established process of succession for the state's second in command creates the potential for chaos. In the interest of simplicity, stability and transparency, clear lines of succession must be established. 
 Many of these suggestions have enjoyed bipartisan support in the past. What's been missing is action. Legislators have not been leading. But we citizens can take charge and carry out these fundamental reforms through a constitutional convention. Together we can cure the structural dysfunction of our politics and hand New York to the next generation better and stronger than it was handed to us. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY RODRIGO CORRAL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); TERM LIMITS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); POOR POPULATION (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); REDISTRICTING (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); POVERTY RATES (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); APPROVALS (68%); CITY GOVERNMENT (67%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (65%); BUDGET FORECASTS (65%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (60%); ACCOUNTING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2009



655 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1210 words

HEADLINE: Now Hiring, and Desperately Seeking, Specially Skilled Workers

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
Just as the recession began, Chris McGrary, a manager at the Cianbro Corporation, set out to hire 80 ''experienced'' welders. Only now, 18 months later, is he completing the roster.
 With the unemployment rate soaring, there have been plenty of applicants. But the welding test stumped many of them. Mr. McGrary found that only those with 10 years of experience -- and not all of them -- could produce a perfect weld: one without flaws, even in an X-ray. Flawless welds are needed for the oil refinery sections that Cianbro is building in Brewer, Me.
 ''If you don't hire in a day or two, the ones that can do that,'' Mr. McGrary said, ''they are out the door and working for another company.''
 Six million jobs have disappeared across the country since Mr. McGrary began his quest. The unemployment rate has risen precipitously to 9.4 percent, the highest level in nearly 30 years, and most of the jobs that do come open are quickly filled from the legions of seekers. But unnoticed in the government's standard employment data, employers are begging for qualified applicants for certain occupations, even in hard times. Most of the jobs involve skills that take years to attain. 
 Welder is one, employers report. Critical care nurse is another. Electrical lineman is yet another, particularly those skilled in stringing high-voltage wires across the landscape. Special education teachers are in demand. So are geotechnical engineers, trained in geology as well as engineering, a combination sought for oil field work. Respiratory therapists, who help the ill breathe, are not easily found, at least not by the Permanente Medical Group, which employs more than 30,000 health professionals. And with infrastructure spending now on the rise, civil engineers are in demand to supervise the work. 
 ''Not newly graduated civil engineers,'' said Larry Jacobson, executive director of the National Society of Professional Engineers. ''What's missing are enough licensed professionals who have worked at least five years under experienced engineers before taking the licensing exam.''
 While these workers might be lured away by higher offers in a robust economy, they should be more plentiful when overall business demand is as slack as it is now. 
 For these hard-to-fill jobs, there seems to be a common denominator. Employers are looking for people who have acquired an exacting skill, first through education -- often just high school vocational training -- and then by honing it on the job. That trajectory, requiring years, is no longer so easy in America, said Richard Sennett, a New York University sociologist.
 The pressure to earn a bachelor's degree draws young people away from occupational training, particularly occupations that do not require college, Mr. Sennett said, and he cited two other factors. Outsourcing interrupts employment before a skill is fully developed, and layoffs undermine dedication to a single occupation. ''People are told they can't get back to work unless they retrain for a new skill,'' he said. 
 None of this deterred Keelan Prados from pursuing a career as a welder, one among roughly 200,000 across the nation. At 28, he has more than a decade of experience, beginning when he was a teenager, building and repairing oil field equipment in his father's shop in Louisiana. Marriage to a Canadian brought the Pradoses to Maine, near her family. And before Mr. Prados joined Cianbro, an industrial contractor, he ran his own business, repairing logging equipment out of a welding and machine shop on the grounds of his home in Brewer.
 The recession dried up that work, and last December, he answered one of Mr. McGrary's ads. ''I welded a couple of pieces of plate together for them and two pipes, and they were impressed,'' Mr. Prados said. In less than two weeks, he was at work on Cianbro's oil refinery project, earning $22 an hour and among the youngest of Mr. McGrary's hires, most of whom are in their mid-30s to early 40s. 
 The Bureau of Labor Statistics does not track how often Mr. Prados's experience -- applying for a job and quickly being offered it -- is repeated in America in the midst of huge and protracted unemployment. A bureau survey counts the number of job openings and the number of hires, but the data is not broken down by occupation.
 The Conference Board, a business organization in New York, comes closer. In a monthly count of online job openings -- listed on Monster.com and more than 1,200 similar Web sites -- it breaks the advertised openings into 22 broad occupational categories and compares those with the number of unemployed whose last job, according to the bureau, was in each category. In only four of the categories -- architecture and engineering, the physical sciences, computer and mathematical science, and health care -- were the unemployed equal to or fewer than the listed job openings. There were, in sum, 1.09 million listed openings and only 582,700 unemployed people presumably available to fill them. 
 The Conference Board's hard-to-fill openings include registered nurses, but the shortage is not as great as it was before the recession, particularly in battered states like Michigan and Ohio, said Cheryl Peterson, a director of the American Nurses Association. 
 ''Until the downturn, it was easy for experienced registered nurses to find employment right in their communities, in whatever positions they wanted,'' Ms. Peterson said. ''Now it is a little more difficult because the number of job openings has fallen and we have more retired nurses, in need of income, coming back.''
 That does not hold for nurses who have a decade of experience caring for critically ill people, particularly in hospital recovery rooms, said Dr. Robert Pearl, chief executive and chairman of the Permanente Medical Group, a big employer of medical professionals. ''There are probably more nurses recently trained than there are jobs for them,'' he said, ''but for those with the highest level of skill and experience, there are always openings.'' And at $100,000 in pay. 
 That is also the case for geological engineers like Diane Oshlo, who was hired last month by Kleinfelder, a professional services firm headquartered in San Diego that takes on big projects, like the environmental cleanup work Ms. Oshlo is doing in Corpus Christi, Tex., at the site of an inactive oil refinery. Engineers like her, skilled in petroleum, are in short supply, and those who are also professional geologists are even rarer.
 That made Ms. Oshlo, 50, a hot prospect when she decided to relocate from Chicago, where she had lived for years, doing similar work for a similar firm. Margaret Duner, a Kleinfelder recruiter, spotted her resume when it arrived in the spring in response to a job ad, and quickly brought her into the hiring process. ''Diane stood out,'' Ms. Duner said.
 Two other firms to which Ms. Oshlo sent resumes also quickly offered work. What swayed her was not the $65,000 salary -- there will be raises and bonuses soon, Ms. Duner said -- but Kleinfelder's willingness to pay to move her to Corpus Christi. 
 ''I told the two others I couldn't wait,'' Ms. Oshlo said. ''They offered roughly the same pay, but they weren't sure about the relocation package.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: With 10 years of welding experience, Keelan Prados was able to pass an employer's test and quickly begin a new job. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS BECK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FACTORY WORKERS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (89%); EMPLOYMENT (88%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (87%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (75%); OUTSOURCING (73%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (73%); NURSES & NURSING (70%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (69%); HIGH SCHOOLS (69%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (66%); SOCIOLOGY (63%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (62%); INFRASTRUCTURE (51%)

COMPANY: CIANBRO CORP (91%)

INDUSTRY: SIC1622 BRIDGE, TUNNEL, & ELEVATED HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2009



656 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1086 words

HEADLINE: Rethinking Gender Bias In Theater

BYLINE: By PATRICIA COHEN

 BODY:
When more than 160 playwrights and producers, most of them female, filed into a Midtown Manhattan theater Monday night, they expected to hear some concrete evidence that women who are authors have a tougher time getting their work staged than men.
 And they did. But they also heard that women who are artistic directors and literary managers are the ones to blame. 
 That conclusion was just one surprising piece of a yearlong research project that both confirms and upends assumptions about bias in the playwriting business.
 ''There is discrimination against female playwrights in the theater community,'' said Emily Glassberg Sands, who conducted the research. Still, she said, that isn't the whole story; there is also a shortage of good scripts by women. 
 Ms. Sands, a Princeton economics student who is heading to Harvard this fall for graduate work, undertook the study, but eminent economists vouched for its high quality, including Christina H. Paxson, the chairwoman of Princeton's economics department and the newly named dean of Princeton's Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs; Cecilia Rouse, a member of the White House Council of Economic Advisers; and Steven D. Levitt, the co-author of ''Freakonomics.''
 The detailed examination was done at the urging of the playwright Julia Jordan, who has been speaking out about the huge disparity between the number of shows by men that are produced and the number by women. (Ms. Jordan was a childhood friend of Mr. Levitt.) 
 To sort out the findings, it helps to look at the research. Ms. Sands conducted three separate studies. The first considered the playwrights themselves. Artistic directors of theater companies have maintained that no discrimination exists, rather that good scripts by women are in short supply. That claim elicited snorts and laughter from the audience when it was repeated Monday night, but Ms. Sands declared, ''They're right.''
 In reviewing information on 20,000 playwrights in the Dramatists Guild and Doollee.com, an online database of playwrights, she found that there were twice as many male playwrights as female ones, and that the men tended to be more prolific, turning out more plays. 
 What's more, Ms. Sands found, over all, the work of men and women is produced at the same rate. The artistic directors have a point: they do get many more scripts from men. 
 For the second study, Ms. Sands sent identical scripts to artistic directors and literary managers around the country. The only difference was that half named a man as the writer (for example, Michael Walker), while half named a woman (i.e., Mary Walker). It turned out that Mary's scripts received significantly worse ratings in terms of quality, economic prospects and audience response than Michael's. The biggest surprise? ''These results are driven exclusively by the responses of female artistic directors and literary managers,'' Ms. Sands said. 
 Amid the gasps from the audience, an incredulous voice called out, ''Say that again?''
 Ms. Sands put it another way: ''Men rate men and women playwrights exactly the same.'' 
 Ms. Sands was reluctant to explain the responses in terms of discrimination, suggesting instead that artistic directors who are women perhaps possess a greater awareness of the barriers female playwrights face.
 For the third piece, Ms. Sands looked specifically at Broadway, where women write fewer than one in eight shows. She modeled her research on work done in the 1960s and '70s to determine whether discrimination existed in baseball. Those studies concluded that black players had to deliver higher performing statistics -- for example, better batting averages -- than white players simply to make it to the major leagues. 
 Ms. Sands examined the 329 new plays and musicals produced on Broadway in the past 10 years to determine whether the bar was set higher. Did scripts by women have to be better than those by men?
 Of course, there are many ways to define ''better,'' but on Broadway, with the exception of three nonprofit theaters, everyone can agree that one overriding goal is to make a profit. So did shows written by women during that period make more money than shows written by men?
 The answer is yes. Plays and musicals by women sold 16 percent more tickets a week and were 18 percent more profitable over all. In the end, women had to deliver the equivalent of higher batting averages, Ms. Sands said. 
 Yet even though shows written by women earned more money, producers did not keep them running any longer than less profitable shows that were written by men. To Ms. Sands, the length of the run was clear evidence that producers discriminate against women.
 The findings are sure to spur debates within the theater community. Representatives from about a dozen New York theater companies, including the Public Theater and Lincoln Center Theater, attended. Many women in the industry have argued that a rise in the number of female artistic directors would lead to more productions of works written by women, but the study calls that claim into question.
 Ms. Sands also found plays that feature women -- which are more commonly written by women -- are also less likely to be produced. Kathryn Walat, a playwright who attended, said, ''Most startling was the reaction to women writing -- and I think of my own work -- about female protagonists and the unlikability of those characters.'' 
 As for Ms. Jordan, she said, ''I suspected it wasn't pure discrimination, but I was surprised that women were driving it.'' Whether the sex of Broadway producers is a factor is unclear, she said: ''One thing I have learned is not to make those assumptions anymore.'' 
 Professor Paxson, who helped to supervise Ms. Sands's research, wrote in an e-mail response: ''Each study uses different data and the best available research methods to investigate whether there is good evidence for gender discrimination in the playwriting business.'' 
 Ms. Rouse said that the findings should ''make even skeptics take note.''
 Ms. Sands acknowledged shortcomings in her work as well as many unanswered questions. Most problematic, she said, was the use of Doollee.com as a database. Because the site depends on users, some information may be incomplete, outdated or incorrect. 
 Still, at the end of the evening, Ms. Sands, who seemed surprisingly comfortable on the stage for an aspiring economist, received the kind of reaction that many playwrights in the audience would wish for: prolonged applause.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Emily Glassberg Sands, of Princeton, conducted the research.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (93%); DRAMA LITERATURE (91%); THEATER & DRAMA (91%); THEATER (90%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); WOMEN (90%); GENDER EQUALITY (90%); THEATER COMPANIES (89%); DISCRIMINATION (89%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (52%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2009



657 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 594 words

HEADLINE: Real Consumer Protection

 BODY:
The federal consumer protection system failed the country, disastrously, in the years leading up to the mortgage crisis. One big cause was the sharing of responsibility for compliance with laws and regulations among several agencies that communicate poorly with each other and tend to put the bankers' interests first and consumer protection second -- if they pay attention to it all. 
 The Obama administration was right on the mark last week when it recognized this problem and proposed a solution: consolidating the far-flung responsibilities into a strong, new agency that focuses directly on consumer protection. The plan, modeled on a bill already introduced in the Senate by Richard Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, deserves broad support in Congress. 
 Before the current crisis, the lure of big money from Wall Street, which could not get enough of mortgage-backed securities, spread corruption right through the mortgage process. Banks and mortgage companies fed kickbacks to brokers, who often steered borrowers into high-risk, high-cost loans. Appraisers did their part by inflating property values so that people could borrow beyond their means.
 Deceptive practices became the order of the day. Borrowers who thought they were getting traditional fixed-rate mortgages sometimes learned at the last minute that they had been given loans with escalating interest rates, exploding payments or complicated structures that they clearly did not understand.
 Federal regulators were slow to recognize the rising threat to the economy. They were also vulnerable to ''regulatory arbitrage'' by the banks, which currently get to choose their own regulators. If one regulator seems too scrupulous, a bank can shift to another and then another, in search of the weakest possible oversight.
 Federal regulators may even have accelerated the mortgage crisis by invalidating state laws that would have protected people from misleading and predatory lending practices. By pre-empting those tougher state laws, the regulators helped create an atmosphere in which risky lending practices became the norm. 
 The new agency envisioned by the Obama administration would put an end to this slippery practice. It would have authority over all banks, credit card companies, other credit-granting businesses and independent, nonbank mortgage companies, which are currently not covered by federal bank regulation.
 One of the agency's principal responsibilities would be to ensure that mortgage documents are clear and easy to understand. Federal rules would serve as a floor, not a ceiling, so that the states could pass even more stringent laws without fear of federal pre-emption. The administration also envisions a data-driven agency that would react swiftly to events like the ones that should have foreshadowed the subprime crisis.
 In general, the new agency would require little in the way of new institutional infrastructure. As the administration notes in its proposal, three of the four federal banking agencies have mostly or entirely separated the consumer protection function from the rest of the agency. It would be a relatively simple matter to consolidate those divisions in a new, free-standing agency.
 Congress should resist its typical urge to water down this plan for the special interests that write campaign checks but helped precipitate this crisis. Lawmakers need to bear in mind that consumer protection laws don't just shield individuals. They also protect the economy. That's a good argument for building a strong, effective consumer protection agency.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); CREDIT REGULATION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); PREDATORY LENDING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); FAIR LENDING (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); BANKING LAW (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); CORRUPTION (68%); CREDIT CARDS (65%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2009



658 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: The Green Revolution(s)

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
There has been a lot of worthless chatter about what President Barack Obama should say about Iran's incipient ''Green Revolution.'' Sorry, but Iranian reformers don't need our praise. They need the one thing we could do, without firing a shot, that would truly weaken the Iranian theocrats and force them to unshackle their people. What's that? End our addiction to the oil that funds Iran's Islamic dictatorship. Launching a real Green Revolution in America would be the best way to support the ''Green Revolution'' in Iran. 
 Oil is the magic potion that enables Iran's turbaned shahs -- ''Shah Khamenei'' and ''Shah Ahmadinejad'' -- to snub their noses at the world and at many of their own people as well. President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad behaves like someone who was born on third base and thinks he hit a triple. By coincidence, he's been president of Iran during a period of record high oil prices. So, although he presides over an economy that makes nothing the world wants, he can lecture us about how the West is in decline and the Holocaust was a ''myth.'' Trust me, at $25 a barrel, he won't be declaring that the Holocaust was a myth anymore. 
 The Obama team wants to pursue talks with Iran over its nuclear program, no matter who wins there. Fine. But the issue is not talk or no talk. The issue is leverage or no leverage. I love talking to people -- especially in the Middle East -- on one condition: that we have the leverage. As long as oil prices are high, Iran will have too much leverage and will be able to resist concessions on its nuclear program. With oil at $70 a barrel, our economic sanctions on Iran are an annoyance; at $25, they really hurt.
 ''People do not change when you tell them they should; they change when they tell themselves they must,'' observed Michael Mandelbaum, the Johns Hopkins University foreign policy specialist. And nothing would tell Iran's leaders that they must change more than collapsing oil prices.
 Mr. Obama has already started some excellent energy-saving initiatives. But we need more. Imposing an immediate ''Freedom Tax'' of $1 a gallon on gasoline -- with rebates to the poor and elderly -- would be a triple positive: It would stimulate more investment in renewable energy now; it would stimulate more consumer demand for the energy-efficient vehicles that the reborn General Motors and Chrysler are supposed to make; and, it would reduce our oil imports in a way that would surely affect the global price and weaken every petro-dictator.
 That is how -- as Bill Maher likes to say -- we make the bad guys ''fight all of us.''
 Sure, it would take time to influence the regime, but, unlike words alone, it will have an impact. I believe in ''The First Law of Petro-Politics,'' which stipulates that the price of oil and the pace of freedom in petrolist states -- states totally dependent on oil exports to run their economies -- operate in an inverse correlation. As the price of oil goes down, the pace of freedom goes up because leaders have to educate and unleash their people to innovate and trade. As the price of oil goes up, the pace of freedom goes down because leaders just have to stick a pipe in the ground to stay in power.
 Exhibit A: the Soviet Union. High oil prices in the 1970s suckered the Kremlin into propping up inefficient industries, overextending subsidies, postponing real economic reforms and invading Afghanistan. When oil prices collapsed to $15 a barrel in the late 1980s, the overextended, petrified Soviet Empire went bust.
 In a 2006 speech entitled ''The Collapse of an Empire: Lessons for Modern Russia,'' Yegor Gaidar, a deputy prime minister of Russia in the early 1990s, noted that ''the timeline of the collapse of the Soviet Union can be traced to Sept. 13, 1985. On this date, Sheikh Ahmed Zaki Yamani, the minister of oil of Saudi Arabia, declared that the monarchy had decided to alter its oil policy radically. The Saudis stopped protecting oil prices, and Saudi Arabia quickly regained its share in the world market.
 ''During the next six months,'' added Gaidar, ''oil production in Saudi Arabia increased fourfold, while oil prices collapsed by approximately the same amount in real terms. As a result, the Soviet Union lost approximately $20 billion per year, money without which the country simply could not survive.''
 If we could bring down the price of oil, the Islamic Republic -- which has been buying off its people with subsidies and jobs for years -- would face the same pressures. The ayatollahs would either have to start taking subsidies away from Iranians, which would only make the turbaned shahs more unpopular, or empower Iran's human talent -- men and women -- and give them free access to the learning, science, trade and collaboration with the rest of the world that would enable this once great Persian civilization to thrive without oil. 
 Let's get serious: An American Green Revolution to end our oil addiction -- to parallel Iran's Green Revolution to end its theocracy -- helps us, helps them and raises the odds that whoever wins the contest for power, there will have to be a reformer. What are we waiting for? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (73%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (71%); IMPORT TRADE (68%); ENERGY DEMAND (64%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (64%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (62%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (60%); RELIGION (56%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2009



659 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 527 words

HEADLINE: Ford Among First to Get Loans for More Efficient Cars

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

DATELINE: DEARBORN, Mich. 

 BODY:
Three automakers, including the Ford Motor Company, will get the first $8 billion from a $25 billion loan program intended to accelerate development of more fuel-efficient vehicles, the national energy secretary said Tuesday. 
 Ford, the only Detroit automaker that did not receive emergency government loans this year, will get $5.9 billion to help it retool 11 factories in the Midwest. The money, about half as much as Ford had requested, will help it make 13 of its models more fuel-efficient. Ford plans to start selling four models of electric vehicles by 2012.
 The payouts were announced by the energy secretary, Steven Chu, during a visit to Ford's headquarters.
 The Japanese carmaker Nissan will receive $1.6 billion to overhaul its factory in Smyrna, Tenn., where it plans to build electric vehicles. And Tesla Motors, a six-year-old company based in California, will get $465 million to make electric vehicles and drive trains.
 General Motors and Chrysler are among the dozens of other applicants seeking financing from the Advanced Technology Vehicles Manufacturing Loan Program, which Congress created in 2007 to help carmakers meet fuel-economy standards. 
 The two companies' bankruptcies made them ineligible for the first round of loans but they are expected to be approved in later rounds. In addition, lawmakers from auto-producing states are pushing to double the amount of the loan program, to $50 billion.
 ''The most fuel-efficient cars in the world must be made right here in America,'' Mr. Chu said. ''Transforming the American automobile industry will not be easy, but we know it can be done.''
 Ford's chief executive, Alan R. Mulally, who cheered when Mr. Chu said the loan recipients had demonstrated they were viable businesses, said Ford planned to invest $14 billion in advanced technology in the next seven years. 
 The $5.9 billion Ford is borrowing through the loan program will be disbursed through 2011, and Ford plans to begin repaying its loans in 2012, Mr. Mulally said. The money will go toward plants in Illinois, Kentucky, Michigan, Missouri and Ohio.
 ''Ford is absolutely committed to delivering the best fuel economy in every new vehicle we produce,'' he said.
 The plants that the loans will help employ about 35,000 engineering and factory-level employees.
 Nissan plans to modify its existing factory in Tennessee and construct a battery plant with the goal of eventually building 150,000 electric cars annually there. It said the project could create up to 1,300 jobs.
 Tesla said its loan will allow it to build two plants in California:one to assemble its Model S, a $57,000 battery-powered sedan it hopes to start selling in 2011, and another to build battery packs and electric drive trains for its own cars and vehicles made by other automakers. The two plants could have a total of as many as 1,650 jobs.
 Mr. Chu said officials had begun discussions with Chrysler, which emerged from bankruptcy protection earlier this month, and were reviewing G.M.'s application. G.M. is requesting $8.3 billion for the development of the Chevrolet Volt, a battery-powered, plug-in car. Chrysler asked for $5 billion.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Alan Mulally, Ford's chief, reacted Tuesday to Energy Secretary Steven Chu's remarks about the viability of the loan recipients. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GARY MALERBA/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (92%); AUTOMAKERS (91%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (91%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); SEDANS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); BATTERY MFG (76%); CONSTRUCTION (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (66%); APPROVALS (65%); JOB CREATION (60%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (96%); TESLA MOTORS INC (70%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%); TSLA (NASDAQ) (70%); GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%); NAICS336350 MOTOR VEHICLE TRANSMISSION & POWER TRAIN PARTS MANUFACTURING (70%)

PERSON: STEVEN CHU (89%); ALAN MULALLY (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (90%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2009



660 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1293 words

HEADLINE: Fed Chief Advocates Bigger Role

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
 -- During the debate over financial regulation, the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, has been surprisingly quiet.
 But behind the scenes, he has been a forceful proponent of giving the Fed more power, both defending his management of the economic crisis and arguing that more authority would help the agency act more decisively to reduce the chances of a recurrence, according to interviews with lawmakers and officials from the Fed, the Treasury and the White House.
 Despite criticism by some lawmakers that the Fed failed to anticipate the problems that led to the crisis, Mr. Bernanke has told associates that such critics fail to recognize the extraordinary actions taken by the central bank over the last year. 
 Mr. Bernanke believes the Fed's actions have played a major role in averting a possible second Great Depression, according to government officials who know his thinking. Those steps, the Fed chairman has told these people, demonstrate that the agency is up to the larger task assigned to it by the Obama administration. 
 Mr. Bernanke has one important champion -- President Obama. On Tuesday, the president reinforced his preference for an enlarged role for the Fed in a news conference at the White House.
 The administration's proposals for a regulatory overhaul are built around the idea ''that there's got to be somebody who is responsible not just for monitoring the health of individual institutions, but somebody who's monitoring the systemic risks of the system as a whole,'' Mr. Obama said. ''And we believe that the Fed has the most technical expertise and the best track record in terms of doing that.''
 He said that while the Fed was not blameless, it was not fair to single it out for failing to avert the crisis.
 ''I think that the Fed probably performed better than most other regulators prior to the crisis taking place, but I think they'd be the first to acknowledge that in dealing with systemic risk and anticipating systemic risk, they didn't do everything that needed to be done,'' Mr. Obama said.
 The president and Mr. Bernanke do not, however, see eye-to-eye over whether to create a Consumer Financial Protection Agency, part of which would be carved out of the Fed's existing jurisdiction over mortgages and credit cards. 
 Breaking ranks with the administration, Mr. Bernanke is expected to tell Congress that the Fed would prefer to keep the responsibility for consumer lending. He is also expected to promise a stronger emphasis on consumer debt issues in the future. 
 Mr. Bernanke's surrogate in the debate has been the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, who in Congressional testimony, speeches and interviews has praised the Federal Reserve's performance.
 (Mr. Geithner's views may also have reflected his pedigree. He joined the administration after serving five years as president of the New York Federal Reserve, where he worked closely with Mr. Bernanke.)
 Mr. Bernanke has been reluctant to get involved in the political debate, but has argued to associates and lawmakers that the often-mentioned alternative of a council supervising the largest firms would not be nimble or accountable enough. 
 He also has said that the plan is not a radical departure from the Fed's current role. The Fed is already the umbrella supervisor of virtually all of Wall Street's largest institutions, and the Obama plan would add only a handful of new companies to the Fed's oversight list. The Fed so far has not specified which companies it would add to its purview, but once it decides, it is expected to make the list public. 
 The biggest impact, government officials said, is not in the number of institutions the Fed regulates, but in how it regulates them. It will have to go beyond measuring the financial safety of institutions to examining their connections to other firms and markets, and the dangers those connections could pose. 
 By possibly requiring the largest institutions to hold more capital against losses or to reduce the amount of debt they carry, for example, the Fed could make firms less profitable and less competitive with their smaller rivals. That in turn could prompt some of the largest institutions to decide to shrink, either by borrowing and lending less, or selling off units.
 Fed officials said they expected that new capital requirements would be tailored to the risks and strengths of each bank. 
 They and top administration officials disagree that the Fed's new authority amounts to overseeing ''too big to fail'' banks. Under the plan, the government would have explicit authority to seize any faltering institution that was judged an unacceptable risk to the overall financial system. As a result, the government would not have to guarantee creditors 100 cents on the dollar -- and ''too big to fail'' would no longer be the default policy. 
 That breaks from the practice of last year, when creditors to the American International Group, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were repaid in full because Mr. Bernanke and Henry M. Paulson Jr., then the Treasury secretary, did not think the government had the legal authority to shut down nonbank institutions, or to choose which loans to repay in full and which to discount.
 Mr. Bernanke has also told people that he finds it illogical that some lawmakers are citing the Fed's failure years ago to curtail deceptive or abusive subprime loans as the reason for their objections to the administration's plan. 
 In recent months, a series of new regulations issued by the Fed on mortgages and credit card policies issued under Mr. Bernanke have generally been applauded by consumer groups and some lawmakers, although Congress recently passed a law, which President Obama signed, to add some features. The new law requires banks and card companies to give 45 days' notice before a change in interest rates and prohibits them from raising rates on existing balances unless a card holder falls 60 days behind on minimum payments.
 Some critics have raised other concerns -- that the Fed is stretching itself too thin, or compromising the political independence that is essential for setting monetary policy.
 ''The plan does give more power to the Fed and just complicates its job and therefore raises questions about its ultimate mission,'' said John B. Taylor, a professor of economics at Stanford and a Treasury under secretary in the Bush administration. His book, ''The Road Ahead for the Fed,'' (Hoover Institution Press) is being published this week. ''If the Fed goes further off its course and doesn't focus on what it did in the 1980s and 1990s, it will have less control over inflation. It will lose its independence. It will have to become more political.''
 Vincent R. Reinhart, a resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute and former director of the Fed's division of monetary affairs, said that policy makers needed to be concerned about mission creep.
 ''The main problem in becoming the systemic risk regulator is that it can be a very diffuse responsibility,'' Mr. Reinhart said. ''Should the Federal Reserve have been monitoring Enron and Long Term Capital Management and the Hunt brothers when they were involved in silver market manipulation?''
 He added: ''What is the ideal governor of the Fed supposed to be, someone who understands monetary policy, systemic risk, bank regulation, consumer affairs and Congressional relations? You are reaching the point where the agency is being spread pretty thin.'' 
 Mr. Bernanke's views, which have evolved as the financial crisis has unfolded, contrast markedly with those of his predecessor. Alan Greenspan, who said last year in his book ''The Age of Turbulence'' that the idea of the Fed as a systemwide regulator was ''mission impossible.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (88%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); TESTIMONY (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); PERSONAL DEBT (69%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (68%); PERSONAL FINANCE (64%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (90%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2009



661 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 738 words

HEADLINE: WHAT'S ON TODAY

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
10 P.M. (ABC) QUESTIONS FOR THE PRESIDENT: PRESCRIPTION FOR AMERICA In this special episode of ''Primetime,'' Charles Gibson and Diane Sawyer moderate a conversation with President Obama, broadcast from the East Room of the White House, about the future of the nation's health care system. The president will answer questions from an audience, selected by producers, of people with divergent opinions on the subject. Dr. Timothy Johnson, the ABC News medical editor, will also join the conversation, which will focus on how to fix the system and how proposed changes may affect the economy.
 7 A.M. (CBS) THE EARLY SHOW Mary Tyler Moore discusses juvenile diabetes; Katie Lee Joel grills pizza. 
 7 A.M. (ABC) GOOD MORNING AMERICACameron Diaz talks about her new film, ''My Sister's Keeper,'' before moving over to ''Live With Regis and Kelly,'' at 9 on ABC.
 8 P.M. (TCM) GREAT DIRECTORS: STANLEY KUBRICKThis tribute begins with Jan Harlan's documentary ''Stanley Kubrick: A Life in Pictures'' (2001), which uses film clips, home movies and interviews with Kubrick's wife, and Mr. Harlan's sister, Christiane; the directors Woody Allen and Alex Cox; and the art director Ken Adam to offer insight into Kubrick's personality and perfectionism. ''Dr. Strangelove or: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb'' (1964), Kubrick's satire on the nuclear arms race, starring Peter Sellers, above, in three roles, follows at 10:30. ''Lolita'' (1962), with James Mason as Nabokov's Humbert Humbert and Sue Lyon as the nymphet he loves, wraps up the evening at 12:15 a.m.
 8 P.M. (HBO2) BE LIKE OTHERS (2008) In the last of three documentaries focusing on Iran, Tanaz Eshaghian tells the story of men and women in their 20s struggling with identity in a country where homosexuality is punishable by death but sex change operations are legal.
 9 P.M. (13, 49) THE MUSIC INSTINCT: SCIENCE AND SONG Bobby McFerrin is host of this program, in which Dr. Daniel Levitin, a neuroscientist, leads researchers as they investigate the biological, emotional and psychological impact of music and its role in human evolution. The musicians Yo-Yo Ma, Jarvis Cocker, Richard Hawley and Evelyn Glennie demonstrate.
 9 P.M. (BBC America) GORDON RAMSAY'S F WORD Krishnan Guru-Murthy, a British news anchor, and his family cook dinner for 50, while Kate Garraway, a morning-show host, challenges Mr. Ramsay to better her recipe for bread-and-butter pudding. Meanwhile, Janet Street-Porter continues her quest to raise veal calves for the ''F Word'' restaurant, and Mr. Ramsay takes his son, Jack, rabbit hunting.
 10 P.M. (Sundance) EROS (2004) Three short tales from Wong Kar-Wei, Steven Soderbergh and Michelangelo Antonioni examine the psychology of human desire. Mr. Wong turns clothing into an explicit metaphor for sex in ''The Hand,'' the story of a courtesan (Gong Li) in 1960s Hong Kong and an apprentice tailor (Chang Chen). Mr. Soderbergh's ''Equilibium'' dissects the relationship between a '50s advertising executive (Robert Downey Jr.) and his voyeuristic psychiatrist (Alan Arkin). And ''The Dangerous Thread of Things,'' Antonioni's final film, starring Christopher Buchholz, Regina Nemni and Luisa Ranieri, ponders the intersection of marital discord, ennui and sexual adventure. Writing in The New York Times, A. O. Scott said, ''Sampling the works of three prominent directors in one sitting may be what gives anthology films like this one their appeal, but the experience is often more frustrating than fulfilling. (I leave it to you to supply the appropriate sexual metaphor).''
 10 P.M. (NBC) THE PHILANTHROPIST James Purefoy plays Teddy Rist, a billionaire playboy who decides to channel his money and power into helping those in need -- even if what they need is a little vigilantism -- after he rescues a boy during a hurricane in Nigeria in this new series. Jesse L. Martin is Philip Maidstone, his business partner and friend. Neve Campbell is Olivia, Philip's wife and the head of the charitable foundation established by the two tycoons. 
 10 P.M. (MTV) THE REAL WORLD In this 22nd-season premiere, eight new roommates prepare to frolic and fight in Cancun, Mexico.
 10 P.M. (Bravo) TOP CHEF MASTERS The chefs Rick Bayless (of the Frontera Grill), Cindy Pawlcyn (Mustards Grill), Wilo Benet (Pikayo) and Ludo Lefebvre (Ludo Bites) each create a quick dish based on a color for Los Angeles pedestrians. KATHRYN SHATTUCK 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); MUSIC (84%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); PSYCHOLOGY (75%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (73%); FILM (73%); HEALTH CARE (72%); NEUROSCIENCE (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (67%); ARMS RACE (64%); MILITARY WEAPONS (64%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (60%); GENDER IDENTITY DISORDER (60%); DIABETES (54%)

PERSON: DIANE SAWYER (73%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); TIM JOHNSON (57%); REGIS PHILBIN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2009



662 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
 FISHERMEN FEEL TRAPPED
 In Clash Between Koreas
 The fisherman of Yeonpyeong Island, which is claimed by both North and South Korea, said they felt caught in the middle of the rising tensions between the two nations. PAGE A8
 3 KILLED IN AFGHAN BOMBING 
 A roadside bomb killed three Afghan aid workers with a partner organization of the United Nation's refugee agency in a relatively peaceful northern province, a sign of the militants' efforts to extend their reach in the country. PAGE A4
 BERLUSCONI ON THE DEFENSIVE
 Facing a growing wave of criticism about his personal life, Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi of Italy pleaded his case this week in a magazine he owns. PAGE A6
 National
 OBAMA TO ADD PROTECTIONS
 For Transgender Workers
 White House lawyers are quietly drafting first-of-their kind guidelines barring workplace discrimination against transgender federal employees, officials said. PAGE A15
 NEARING A VOTE ON ENERGY
 The House is moving toward a vote on energy and climate change legislation, with several issues still unresolved but with Democratic leaders expressing confidence that it will pass. PAGE A15
 EASING FINANCIAL AID
 The Obama administration is moving to simplify the Free Application for Federal Student Aid, or Fafsa, a notoriously complicated form that asks students seeking financial aid for college as many as 153 questions. PAGE A14
 New York
 SONGWRITER IS ACCUSED
 Of Raping Starlets
 Joseph Brooks, a 71-year-old Oscar-winning songwriter and director, was arrested on charges of raping or sexually assaulting 11 women lured to his East Side Manhattan apartment from 2005 to 2008, with his female assistant charged with helping him. PAGE A23
 Business
 FED CHIEF BELIEVES AGENCY
 Needs an Expanded Role 
 Ben Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, has been a forceful proponent of giving the Fed more power, both defending his management of the economic crisis and arguing that more authority would help the agency act more decisively to reduce the chances of a recurrence. PAGE B1
 PROTECTING CABLE TV
 Aware of how print, music and broadcast television have seen their businesses severely eroded, the chief executives of the major media conglomerates have made protecting cable TV from the ravages of the Internet a top priority. PAGE B1
 LENIENCY FOR MADOFF?
 Lawyers for Bernard L. Madoff, who has confessed to running what may be the biggest Ponzi scheme in history, asked a judge to impose a sentence of 12 years in prison on their client. PAGE B2
 ANOTHER DELAY FOR JET
 The Boeing Company said that it would again delay the first flight of its new jet, the 787, the latest setback in a program that is considered crucial to the plane maker's future. PAGE B3
 Sports 
 MAESTRO OF SPAIN'S MIDFIELD 
 Is Set To Bedevil U.S.
 Spain's Xavier Hernandez, known simply as Xavi, is only 5 feet 7 inches. But the American soccer team, which faces him on Wednesday in the Confederations Cup, are well acquainted the outsize influence he focuses on a game. PAGE B11
 EARLY EXITS FOR TENNIS STARS
 Marat Safin said he was a step closer to retiring after losing to a quick-footed American qualifier named Jesse Levine at Wimbledon. And Kimiko Date Krumm, a Japanese star who came out of a 12-year retirement last year, lost in three sets to a player not even half her age. PAGE B12
 Arts
 INVASION OF THE ROBOTS
 From Space, Redux
 ''Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen,'' is the follow-up to the action film based on the popular toy franchise, and Manohla Dargis writes that this installment is steeped in director Michael Bay's specific worldview and moral sensibility. PAGE C1
 GROWING A CONSCIENCE
 Alessandra Stanley writes that the duality of the title character in ''The Philanthropist,'' an NBC show about an egotistical billionaire who tries to reform himself, makes the show an unusual and exhilarating network series. PAGE C1
 HIT SHOW PLACED ON HIATUS
 TLC put ''Jon & Kate Plus 8,'' the reality show about a large family, on hiatus for more than a month, following the announcement that the title couple was separating after a decade of marriage. PAGE C1
 Record Low Network Ratings C3 
 Dining
 COPING WITH SOBRIETY 
 In Jobs Steeped in Alcohol
 Although the hospitality industry has itself calmed down and has outgrown many of its hard-partying ways, nondrinkers and restaurant work don't always mix easily. PAGE D1
 The Pour D2
 Reviews: Spice Market D6
 Op-ed
 MAUREEN DOWD PAGE A29
 THOMAS FRIEDMAN PAGE A29

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TRANSGENDER PERSONS (88%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (86%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (86%); SEX OFFENSES (86%); LAWYERS (78%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); BOMBINGS (77%); LEGISLATION (74%); EMPLOYMENT (73%); SENTENCING (73%); REFUGEES (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%); SONG WRITING (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); DISCRIMINATION (69%); JUDGES (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (66%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (66%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (66%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (65%); ARRESTS (65%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (64%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (64%); JAIL SENTENCING (64%); AIRCRAFT MFG (63%); PONZI SCHEMES (60%); SOCCER (60%)

COMPANY: BOEING CO (81%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (81%); BAB (BRU) (81%); BA (NYSE) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (81%)

PERSON: SILVIO BERLUSCONI (70%); BARACK OBAMA (68%); BERNARD MADOFF (50%); BEN BERNANKE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); SPAIN (88%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2009



663 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: In Reversal, Kyrgyzstan Won't Close A U.S. Base

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SCHWIRTZ and CLIFFORD J. LEVY

DATELINE: MOSCOW 

 BODY:
Kyrgyzstan has essentially reversed a decision to close an American air base that is central to the NATO mission in nearby Afghanistan, after the United States acceded to sharply higher rent and to minor restrictions on the site, Kyrgyz and American officials said Tuesday.
 The turnabout is a victory for the Obama administration as it seeks to step up operations to quell the Taliban insurgency in Afghanistan. The Kyrgyz government had ordered the base closed in February, apparently under pressure from the Kremlin, which has resented the deep American military presence in an area of the world that it has long considered its zone of influence. 
 The Manas Air Base in Kyrgyzstan has been used since 2001 as a refueling stop and transit hub for about 15,000 troops and 500 tons of cargo a month headed for Afghanistan.
 It has also been a focal point in the struggle between the United States and Russia for influence in the countries of the former Soviet Union. Russia pledged a $2 billion loan to Kyrgyzstan on the day in February that the Kyrgyz president announced that the United States would be evicted from the base.
 It was not immediately clear what role the Russian government played in the new agreement between the Kyrgyz and American governments, but President Obama is scheduled to travel to Moscow next month for a summit meeting with Russia's president, Dmitri A. Medvedev, and the two powers have been seeking to improve relations in recent months.
 The Kyrgyz and American governments both said the new arrangement would put limitations on the base. But neither side could point to any significant ones, and it seemed as if the agreement was written to offer the Kyrgyz government a face-saving way to undo its earlier decision. 
 For example, the base is to be renamed a transit center, as opposed to an air base. And the Kyrgyz will control security around the base; currently, American military personnel do. The text of the new agreement specifies few other restrictions on how the United States can use the base. There do not seem to be any prohibitions on shipping weaponry.
 One major change, though, is the rent. It will rise to $60 million annually from $17.4 million, Kadyrbek Sarbayev, Kyrgyzstan's foreign minister, told the Kyrgyz Parliament on Tuesday.
 Washington will also pay $36.6 million to expand the airport and will contribute tens of millions of dollars toward economic development and the fight against drug trafficking, Mr. Sarbayev said. He said the agreement would be for one year and would be contingent on the situation in Afghanistan.
 Ian C. Kelly, a State Department spokesman, confirmed the accord at a daily news briefing but declined to discuss details. 
 The agreement now goes before the Kyrgyz Parliament for ratification, which is considered all but assured.
 The United States had pursued a strenuous campaign to persuade the Kyrgyz government to reconsider ahead of the Aug. 18 eviction date.
 This month, President Obama sent a letter to the Kyrgyz president, Kurmanbek S. Bakiyev, calling for greater cooperation in the fight against terrorism, Kyrgyz officials said. The officials insisted at the time that the American base would close on schedule.
 On Tuesday, Russia's Foreign Ministry said in a statement that it was Kyrgyzstan's ''sovereign right'' to forge the agreement, which it said limited operations at the base to the transport of nonlethal cargo. In fact, there is no such stipulation.
 ''If the issue is transit of nonmilitary NATO cargo for use in the counterterrorist operation in Afghanistan, then Russia and Kyrgyzstan's neighbors have also given their permission for this,'' the statement posted on the ministry's Web site said. 
 The Kyrgyz government also said the new arrangement was fundamentally different from the previous one. ''It is to be a transit center for supporting operations of antiterrorist forces,'' said Almas I. Turdumamatov, a spokesman for Kyrgyzstan's president. 
 Some Kyrgyz politicians said the new arrangement was just cosmetic.
 ''I think the base will remain, but only under a different name,'' said Bakyt Beshimov, leader of the opposition Social Democrats in Parliament. ''Substantively, nothing is changing.'' 
 According to the text of the new agreement, United States personnel and contractors can transport ''any kinds of personal belongings, equipment, supplies, materials and technologies'' into and out of Kyrgyzstan.
 Supplies will be exempt from inspection or licensing by the Kyrgyz government, the agreement says.
 There had long been speculation that the Kyrgyz government never intended to evict the Americans, but only wanted more rent.
 In announcing the eviction, Mr. Bakiyev cited Washington's failure to adequately compensate the government. Relations also soured in 2006 when an American serviceman killed a Kyrgyz driver on the base.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: American soldiers during a military exercise at Manas Air Base in Kyrgyzstan in 2007. A new deal will keep the base open. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MISHA JAPARIDZE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); CLOSINGS (90%); MILITARY BASES (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (88%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); TALIBAN (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); ARMED FORCES (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (65%); DRUG POLICY (50%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (50%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%) KYRGYZSTAN (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2009



664 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 617 words

HEADLINE: Energy Bill Unfinished, but Vote Nears

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The House is moving toward a vote Friday on energy and climate change legislation, with several significant issues still unresolved but with Democratic leaders expressing confidence that they will muster the votes to pass it.
 President Obama endorsed the measure on Tuesday at a White House news conference, calling it ''extraordinarily important.'' He has sent aides to Capitol Hill to lobby for the bill almost daily and dispatched cabinet officers and senior advisers to a half-dozen states this week to try to drum up public support.
 Mr. Obama said the measure, sponsored by Representatives Henry A. Waxman of California and Edward J. Markey of Massachusetts, both Democrats, ''will finally spark a clean energy transformation that will reduce our dependence on foreign oil and confront the carbon pollution that threatens our planet.'' 
 He said the changes wrought by the bill would be paid for by utilities and other industries that produce climate-altering emissions and would help position the country as a global leader in clean energy technology. ''And that is why I urge members of the House to come together to pass it,'' he said. 
 At the heart of the 1,201-page measure is a cap-and-trade program to limit emissions of carbon dioxide and other heat-trapping gases that scientists blame for global warming.
 Mr. Waxman and Mr. Markey are still negotiating elements of the complex legislation, and there is no certainty that they will assemble enough votes to pass it on Friday over near-unanimous Republican opposition.
 They have been in talks with farm-state lawmakers over a number of agriculture-related provisions. Mr. Waxman and Representative Collin C. Peterson, the Minnesota Democrat who heads the House Agriculture Committee, said Tuesday that they had resolved the most contentious of these issues: the Agriculture Department, not the Environmental Protection Agency, would regulate the use of farm and forestry projects intended to offset carbon dioxide emissions from industrial sources. 
 The bill's sponsors are also trying to resolve questions over whether to impose trade sanctions on countries that do not limit emissions and thus would enjoy an added manufacturing cost advantage if a cap-and-trade system was enacted here.
 Supporters and opponents continue to argue over the bill's costs. Supporters cite new studies from the Congressional Budget Office and the E.P.A. that found that the bill would bring relatively small increases in household energy prices. 
 The budget office study concluded that the cap-and-trade provision of the bill would cost the average household $175 a year in higher energy costs by 2020. Because of rebate provisions, the lowest-income homes would see their energy bills actually fall by $40 a year by 2020, according to the study.
 The E.P.A. reached similar conclusions, finding that the bill's overall cost to the average household would be $80 to $111 a year in 2020. The agency also contended that because of the legislation's efficiency provisions, utility bills in 2020 would be roughly 7 percent lower than if there were no change in law.
 House Republican leaders oppose the bill, saying it would effectively impose a national energy tax that would destroy jobs and cause large price increases for all forms of energy.
 The House Republican leader, Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, said in a letter to his caucus that the vote on the legislation would be one of the defining events of the 2010 election cycle and that Democrats who supported it would pay at the ballot box.
 Senate action is awaiting the outcome in the House, where, concerned about the bill's politics and economics, dozens of Democrats remain undecided.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Henry A. Waxman is an author of the energy bill pushed by President Obama.(PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (88%); AGRICULTURE (88%); LOBBYING (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (73%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (73%); SCIENCE NEWS (70%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (70%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (69%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (68%); AIR POLLUTION (68%); CARBON OFFSETS (68%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (65%); BUDGETS (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); HENRY WAXMAN (89%); EDWARD J MARKEY (58%); COLLIN PETERSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2009



665 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM.; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 739 words

BYLINE: By DWIGHT CASS, ROB COX and YOREE KOH

 BODY:
All Sides Win
 In Buyout Battle
 One of the last big clashes of the leveraged buyout boom has finally sputtered out. Deutsche Bank and Credit Suisse have settled Huntsman's lawsuit over the chemical maker's broken leveraged buyout by Apollo Management. Reaching the settlement, of $1.7 billion, when a Texas jury could have hit the banks up for seven times that amount, is sensible.
 Huntsman has already extracted a $1 billion settlement from Apollo. The private equity firm owns Hexion Specialty Chemicals, which had agreed to buy Huntsman in 2007 before backpedaling, leaving Apollo to call off the leveraged buyout. The economic downturn had taken a big toll on the chemicals business, and Apollo argued the combination would be insolvent from day one. 
 That should have let the banks -- which said the lending agreement required the borrower to be able to service the debt -- off the hook. But the chemical company's combative founder, Jon Huntsman, filed a $13 billion action against the lenders. 
 And given the unpopularity of Wall Street firms in heartland locations like the court's location -- Conroe, Tex., a town of about 40,000 people north of Houston -- and the complexity of the case, the banks were right to worry they might lose.
 Still, in the end, the banks only have to pay out $316 million each; the remainder of the settlement is in the form of loans to Huntsman. If the banks had financed the buyout, and even if Huntsman-Hexion didn't default, the more than 13 percent decline in junk loan prices since the deal was struck implies that they would now be sitting on at least a $2 billion paper loss. At the market's nadir last December, that loss would have been more like $6 billion. 
 So the banks appear to have gotten off relatively easily. Huntsman's shareholders thought so -- they lopped about 10 percent off the company's share price immediately after the settlement was announced. The shares recouped most of that loss by the end of the day. Perhaps investors realized the combined Apollo and bank settlements still come to a tidy sum -- twice Huntsman's market capitalization. That means all the combatants have something to celebrate.
 Want MySpace?
 By his own admission, Sumner Redstone has long coveted MySpace. Mr. Redstone's Viacom media conglomerate missed out on grabbing the Internet company four years ago. But it could get a second chance. 
 That's because MySpace's future looks shaky. Mr. Redstone's rival, Rupert Murdoch, snapped up the business for $580 million in 2005 as social networking took off. That allowed the News Corporation, which he controls, to sign a deal with Google that guaranteed $300 million in advertising revenue annually until next year. 
 The trouble is that MySpace's chief rival, Facebook, has been the greater beneficiary of the social networking boom. And even Facebook is struggling to make money. With user traffic slowing and the Google deal winding down, MySpace looks strategically stuck.
 Last month, UBS analysts questioned whether MySpace would ever lift its revenue further. It has embarked on a major cost-cutting drive. It is slashing 30 percent of its United States staff and two-thirds of its international ranks. 
 Enter Mr. Redstone. The Viacom chairman acknowledged firing the chief executive, Tom Freston, for failing to purchase MySpace when he figured he could have had it for $500 million. Losing out to Mr. Murdoch was ''a humiliating experience,'' Mr. Redstone told Charlie Rose in a 2006 interview.
 But the reason Viacom should have wanted MySpace was not for social networking. The fit was actually better with Viacom's existing franchises -- specifically the MTV cable networks -- than anything inside the News Corporation's empire.
 From the start, one of MySpace's greatest attributes was its ability to showcase music for established bands and up-and-comers. Pairing MTV with MySpace, therefore, would offer obvious content synergies. 
 Mr. Murdoch isn't likely to part with MySpace at a loss. But Mr. Redstone once figured the business was worth $1.5 billion. Without the Google deal, that looks optimistic. Even so, split the difference with what his rival paid, and Mr. Redstone could own his musical quarry for a mere $1 billion. Maybe it's not always so bad to lose an auction the first time around. 
 DWIGHT CASS, ROB COX and YOREE KOH 
 For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sumner Redstone, chairman of Viacom, for years has wanted to own MySpace. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN WINTER/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHEMICALS (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (90%); CHEMICALS MFG (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (86%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); PRIVATE EQUITY (78%); SPECIALTY CHEMICALS MFG (77%); JURY TRIALS (77%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (77%); LITIGATION (77%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); SPECIALTY CHEMICALS INDUSTRY (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (68%); SOCIAL MEDIA (64%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%)

COMPANY: MOMENTIVE SPECIALITY CHEMICALS INC (83%); NEWS CORP (80%); MYSPACE INC (64%); APOLLO GLOBAL MANAGEMENT LLC (58%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (58%); APOLLO ADVISORS LP (58%); GOOGLE INC (51%); VIACOM INC (51%); FACEBOOK INC (50%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (80%); NWS (ASX) (80%); APO (NYSE) (58%); DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%); CSGN (SWX) (58%); CS (NYSE) (58%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (51%); VIA (NASDAQ) (51%); FB (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325910 PRINTING INK MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS325194 CYCLIC CRUDE, INTERMEDIATE, & GUM & WOOD CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (80%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (80%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (80%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (64%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (64%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (51%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (51%)

PERSON: SUMNER REDSTONE (82%); KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (58%) TEXAS, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2009



666 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1290 words

HEADLINE: A Resort Downriver From Washington

BYLINE: By EUGENE L. MEYER

DATELINE: OXON HILL, Md. 

 BODY:
For decades, a manmade cove on the eastern bank of the Potomac River just downstream from the nation's capital was the focus of ambitious development plans, but repeatedly the dreams ran aground. Now, however, despite a deep recession, a mini-city with the hopeful name National Harbor is rising at the site. 
 The initial phase of the project, which sits on 300sloping acres, includes the $1.1 billion Gaylord National Resort and Convention Center, a 2,000-room property that had its first anniversary in April. Four hotels are clustered nearby, along with about two dozen restaurants and shops, a marina, condos, office buildings and parking for 6,000 cars. 
 The project already fills several square city blocks of low to midrise buildings, many with water views. Only the Gaylord soars -- by Washington standards -- with an 18-story glass atrium. Slicing through the property toward the waterfront, the American Way is a grand pedestrian boulevard modeled after Las Ramblas in Barcelona, Spain, with shops, a wide median and 96 London plane trees. 
 On weekends, National Harbor draws tens of thousands of visitors -- a mix of convention-goers, business people, tourists and local residents. National Harbor officials expect the crowds to swell as the development grows. 
 Last month, the Peterson Companies, National Harbor's developer, announced that Disney had paid $11 million to acquire 15 acres of prime real estate there for what is expected to be a family-themed resort hotel. Disney is already building a themed resort in Hawaii, its first, for a reported $800 million and has not disclosed a timetable or cost estimate for the resort at National Harbor.
 ''For us to get them now, in this economy, is almost like an unnatural act,'' said Milton V. Peterson, the company's 73-year-old founder and owner, beaming as he spoke. His family company has long been a major developer in the Washington area. 
 ''At the end of day, we're storytellers,'' said Jay Rasulo, chairman of Walt Disney Parks and Resorts, ''and we felt National Harbor with its proximity to the nation's capital, and all the stories behind it, could serve as a fun-filled destination for local visitors on a weekend getaway, but also as base camp for distant visitors to explore those many inspirational stories from our nation's capital.''
 Disney's investment is a tangible vote of confidence in the project on the cove, which was first named Smoot Bay, after the sand and gravel company that dredged it decades ago. The soil was used in construction of the Pentagon during World War II. 
 The groundwork for a large development at the site was laid in 1983, when it was rezoned for mixed use. Initially called the Bay of the Americas, the project was renamed Port America by another developer, who hired the famed architect Philip Johnson to design a 52-story office tower as its centerpiece. 
 But the tower, which would have been the tallest building between New York and Atlanta, ran into opposition from federal officials, and the project was redesigned. Then, after a groundbreaking in 1987 and construction of a $5 million marketing center, the economy soured and the project went into foreclosure.
 Mr. Peterson bought the property in 1995 for $30 million from the Resolution Trust Corporation, which was selling off the assets of failed savings institutions.
 Unlike the earlier developers, who had focused on office development, Mr. Peterson concluded that the site ''should be a destination-waterfront resort,'' he said. 
 The Potomac has been ''such an underutilized resource,'' he said. Along his 6,700 feet of riverfront, he resolved to change that. In addition to the marina, there is a water taxi that runs to Old Town Alexandria, the historic riverfront Virginia town. Eventually, it will also carry baseball fans upriver to the Washington Nationals ballpark. 
 ''D.C. is the third-largest tourist destination after Las Vegas and Orlando,'' Mr. Peterson said. ''All good parents take the patriotic pilgrimage to the nation's capital.''
 John A. Lally, a land-use lawyer formerly involved with the project, said, ''The magic wand it took was making it a tourist attraction as opposed to a business center -- someplace Mom and Dad would want to come to with the kids.''
 Mr. Peterson said that the Gaylord and the other hotels house an estimated 3,000 people daily, who naturally patronize its restaurants and shops. Special weekend wine and food festivals draw thousands more.
 ''Weekends are packed -- the foot traffic along the harbor is amazing,'' said Nicole Benolken, general manager of the Aloft Washington National Harbor, a boutique hotel that is part of the Starwood chain. The 190-room hotel, with nightly rates of $119 to $249, opened on March 26 and has had several sold-out weekends, she said. 
 Mr. Peterson asserts that the development is using ''an urban plan.'' A proponent of public art, he acquired ''The Awakening,'' a sculpture by J. Seward Johnson of hands and feet and a head rising from the ground, previously installed at Hains Point in southwest Washington, and he commissioned Albert Paley to create ''The Beckoning,'' an 85-foot-tall abstract sculpture. 
 The Capital Children's Museum, which had also been in Washington, is scheduled to relocate here in 2013 as the National Children's Museum. 
 But the centerpiece of the development is still the Gaylord National Resort, which broke ground in 2005 and opened for business in April 2008 with 1.5 million room nights presold and commitments for three conventions that had previously been held at the 1,300-room Washington Marriott Wardman Park Hotel. This year, the quadrennial Texas Black Tie and Boots Inaugural Ball, which had drawn 8,000 to the Wardman in 2005, attracted 13,000 to National Harbor, Gaylord officials said.
 The hotel-convention center, which sits on 46 acres that Gaylord owns, features a voluminous atrium with Potomac sunset views, six restaurants, shops, a spa and fitness center, and 470,000 square feet of meeting space. 
 It generated $14.8 million in cash flow in the first quarter of 2009, ''a solid performance in this challenging economic environment,'' said Colin V. Reed, chairman of Gaylord Entertainment, which also owns Opryland in Nashville. 
 While the recession has not been as deep here as elsewhere, National Harbor has not been immune to the downturn. ''Everyone is feeling the pain,'' said Steven B. Peterson, who oversees the project with his father and his brothers, Jon and William, and sister, Lauren.
 The vacancy rate in the two office buildings, which were completed last June, with a total of 160,000 square feet in five- and six-story structures, was around 78 percent a month ago, according to Jon M. Peterson, a senior vice president. Now, it is 23 percent.
 As incentives, the company cut its annual office rental rates 15.7 percent, from $38 a square foot to $32, and raised agent commissions. These changes, Milton Peterson said, resulted in ''letters of intent going back and forth.'' 
 Sales of the project's 420 residential condominiums, in three buildings up to 12 stories high and priced from $300,000 to $3.5 million, have also been affected. ''They were sold out,'' Steven Peterson said. ''Then the financing crunch changed the rules of the game,'' resulting in cancellations. Now, more than 200 have been sold and others are in contract. Price reductions, Mr. Peterson said, are on a ''unit by unit'' basis.
 But the developers can be certain the location will outlast the downturn. ''Its site is absolutely beautiful,'' said Mr. Rasulo, the Disney executive. ''We at Disney are very focused on design and location and accessibility, and certainly National Harbor has all that in spades.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Gaylord National Resort and Convention Center has an 18-story glass atrium and 2,000 rooms.
 Milton V. Peterson, the developer of National Harbor, next to ''The Awakening,'' a sculpture by J. Seward Johnson that has been brought to the resort. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DANIEL ROSENBAUM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESORTS (90%); RIVERS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); HARBORS & PORTS (77%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (76%); FAMILY TRAVEL (76%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (76%); OFFICE PROPERTY (75%); ZONING (73%); FAMILY COMPANIES (71%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (71%); ANNIVERSARIES (70%); RESTAURANTS (70%); SAND & GRAVEL MINING (60%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (56%); WORLD WAR II (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF THE POTOMAC (91%); WALT DISNEY PARKS & RESORTS (82%); PETERSON COS LC (67%); WALT DISNEY CO (54%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (82%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (82%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (67%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (67%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (54%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (54%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BARCELONA, SPAIN (79%) HAWAII, USA (79%); CATALONIA, SPAIN (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2009



667 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; CHIKAR JOURNAL; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1033 words

HEADLINE: Saving a Kashmiri Village After Remaking His Life

BYLINE: By ADAM B. ELLICK

DATELINE: CHIKAR, Pakistan 

 BODY:
The lone hospital in this Kashmiri mountain town was on the eve of hosting one of the year's biggest social gatherings, a health fair for several hundred villagers, and Todd Shea was not happy.
 The hospital's founder, Mr. Shea, an American who resembles a football coach more than a health worker, was outraged because one of the employees had failed to purchase enough hygiene kits -- freebies the villagers had come to expect at the fair. 
 ''This is a problem, and there is a solution,'' Mr. Shea, strident but good-natured, yelled to a staffer on the phone from the field. ''Let's see how good you are. I know there are kits lurking in the walls. I guarantee you that if I come there, I will find them. You know me!'' 
 Seven hours later, at midnight, the employee returned from a nearby city with a sheepish smile and 100 kits he had managed to round up. Mr. Shea hugged him, ''I believe in you,'' he said.
 If Mr. Shea, 42, had a resume, it would by his own admission reveal far more experience as a cocaine addict than as a medical professional. But with his take-charge demeanor, he has transformed primary health care here in this mountain town in Kashmir, where government services are mostly invisible. 
 ''Others are more qualified, but I'm the one who's here,'' he said.
 Most recently, he has focused on the millions of people who have been uprooted by the army's campaign against the Taliban, in the northwest. 
 But it is here that Mr. Shea spends his time and learned years ago that, as far as health care is concerned, every day is a crisis for Pakistanis. 
 He arrived as a volunteer rescue worker immediately after the 2005 earthquake that killed 80,000 Pakistanis. Overwhelmed by the community's long-term needs Mr. Shea never left, and in 2006 he set up a nonprofit charity hospital called Comprehensive Disaster Relief Services, or C.D.R.S. 
 Humanitarian aid flooded the region in the immediate aftermath of the earthquake, but the tide of aid and government support ebbed within months, leaving 25,000 wounded residents without doctors, medical supplies and an actual health outpost. That is, life returned to normal.
 In Pakistan, less than one percent of the national budget is devoted to the health of its citizens, and the nation's health care crisis is especially acute in remote communities. ''It's frustrating and sad that's the way it is,'' Mr. Shea said. ''But if I screamed from the mountaintop, it wouldn't change a thing.''
 So he does what he can. His hospital, with 38 employees and nearly $200,000 in financing from Americans and Unicef, highlights not only the needs of Pakistan's rural health system but also a glaring vulnerability for a government trying to brand itself an alternative to the Taliban.
 ''The Taliban terrorize people, but they put forth logical arguments about the state's failures,'' said Shandana Khan, the chief operating officer of the Rural Support Program Network. 
 ''It's very common to see primary health care facilities without doctors, or medicines,'' she added. ''Doctors don't want to be posted there. Or they'll sign up and get paid, but sit in cities and no one monitors them.''
 Chikar is only 85 miles from the capital, Islamabad, but it takes six hours up a switchback road to reach the hospital. Here, the government provides only 10 percent of the community's medicine needs. C.D.R.S. picks up the rest.
 Last year Mr. Shea recruited a doctor by doubling his government salary and offering him the only private room in the 20-room hospital, which he rents for $250 a month. Mr. Shea himself sleeps on a mattress in a room he shares with staff members.
 ''The things you see here are only because of C.D.R.S.,'' said the doctor, Rizwan Shabir, 27, who had come from a practice in Muzaffarabad, a city of 300,000. ''Frankly, without Todd, there would be no proper medicine, and patients would be dead.''
 Still, C.D.R.S. is more makeshift than miracle. On a recent morning, Dr. Shabir treated 140 patients in five hours. Without blood-testing laboratories, he diagnoses common illnesses like hepatitis and tuberculosis through clinical evaluations.
 Outside of Chikar, C.D.R.S. supplements 10 other regional government health outposts by paying salaries and purchasing medicines. Over all, it treats about 100,000 patients annually, and 70 percent are women and children.
 With the global economic crisis, Mr. Shea says he fears that his group's $200,000 annual budget may be difficult to raise for 2010. So he has proposed a community insurance program that would require a contribution of 31 cents per person per month, which would net $20,000 a month. He estimates that 65 percent of the town can afford it, and he hopes the government and private donors will pick up the rest. 
 Mr. Shea is an unlikely person to reform Chikar's decades of medical neglect. When he was 12, his mother died of a Valium overdose. By 18, he was addicted to crack cocaine. 
 In 1992, he moved from his native Maryland to Nashville to pursue a music career, he said, and spent the next decade playing in bars and restaurants around the country. At one point, he was forced to sell his own blood plasma for $40 a week to pay the bills.
 He moved to New York City in 1998, and had a gig booked at CBGB, the famed music club, on Sept. 12, 2001. As he watched the World Trade Center burn and fall, he said, he promptly emptied his band van and used it over the next week to ferry meals to firefighters at Ground Zero.
 He soon became addicted to rescue efforts, and volunteered in Sri Lanka after the 2004 tsunami. It was his first time overseas. After Hurricane Katrina, he said, he volunteered with another rescue organization. Then the earthquake hit Pakistan, and he left for a country he knew nothing about.
 Once in Chikar, he met a local M.B.A. student, Afzel Makhdoom, who had just dragged his aunt out from under the rubble of his home. As soon as he could scrape together the money, Mr. Shea hired him. 
 ''I had never met an American before,'' said Mr. Makhdoom, now 24. ''My first impression was: They just want to kill Muslims; it's an invasion, and they'll never go back home. But now we want to keep this American here.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Todd Shea, an American, volunteered after the 2005 earthquake that killed 80,000 Pakistanis and then set up a charity hospital.(PHOTOGRAPH BY VIDEO STILLS BY ADAM B. ELLICK/THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Mr. Shea's hospital in Chikar has a budget of $200,000. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (85%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (68%); NATURAL DISASTERS (67%); DISASTER RELIEF (67%); COCAINE (66%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (66%); VOLUNTEERS (65%); BUDGETS (64%); TALIBAN (63%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (62%); EARTHQUAKES (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KASHMIR (94%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); INDIA (90%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2009



668 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 992 words

HEADLINE: Lending Talent, and Money, on a Micro Scale

BYLINE: By KATE MURPHY

 BODY:
Government agencies and international aid groups have long supported programs that train the world's poor in how to start and run their own businesses. The training is seen as a way to end hunger and stabilize societies. 
 But interest in these programs has grown lately with the wider availability of microloans, or very small enterprise loans made to the poor. As with any start-up, these businesses are more likely to survive, advocates say, if the owners have basic operational skills.
 ''There's been a realization in the microfinance community that loan recipients are more likely to succeed if they also receive business education,'' said Bobbi L. Gray, research and evaluation specialist with Freedom From Hunger, a nonprofit organization in Davis, Calif., that provides financial education in developing countries. 
 Indeed, the nonprofit research group Innovations for Poverty Action in New Haven, Conn., published a paper in May that found that Peruvian villagers who had received microloans and had been randomly selected to receive business training performed significantly better than peers who had received loans and no financial education.
 ''Even those who reported having the least interest before getting the training had higher revenues,'' said Dean Karlan, a professor of economics at Yale, a founder of Innovations and lead author of the study. 
 From Botswana to Bolivia, entrepreneurship training has resulted in thriving microenterprises -- like soap makers, cocoa processors and handicraft exporters -- that would not have existed otherwise. Some programs may gather villagers in huts and use multiple baskets to demonstrate how to allocate capital. Other programs may focus on established but struggling businesses, giving owners DVDs that cover topics like pricing and distribution. 
 ''A good intervention doesn't treat everyone the same,'' said Bruce McNamer, chief executive of TechnoServe, a nonprofit group in Washington that has worked with entrepreneurs in developing countries since 1968 to expand their businesses and foster economic growth in their communities. ''How you help depends on the circumstance.''
 Mr. McNamer's group, which works with the United States Agency for International Development and the State Department, provides free business consulting services and also sponsors business plan competitions to identify aspiring entrepreneurs in developing countries. ''These are usually people who have started a business but they just don't know how to get from point A to point B,'' he said. 
 An example is a cooperative of 50 farmers in northern Nicaragua that four years ago was just getting by while cultivating coffee, he said. But the cooperative, with assistance from TechnoServe, turned to other crops, like the starchy staple malanga, that increased their profits. The cooperative now has 250 farmers and has opened its own packaging plant, which employs 80 people. The plant's products are exported as far as Miami.
 Teaching financial literacy and entrepreneurial skills is seen as particularly important to the reconstruction of war-torn regions like Afghanistan and Iraq. ''It doesn't matter if you build roads if one in four kids dies by age 5'' because of illness or malnutrition, said Ross Paterson, a self-described business coach and retired Army officer in Keller, Tex. 
 He has been to Afghanistan 10 times in the last seven years to teach entrepreneurship. It is more important, he said, to give Afghans the ability to build businesses that will provide the income to sustain them. 
 Occasionally fearing for his safety because of the continued Afghan fighting, Mr. Paterson says he primarily teaches leadership skills by helping the local residents to recognize and successfully work with different personality types, whether colleagues or customers. 
 While Mr. Paterson's courses last only a few weeks and are limited to those who speak fluent English, other organizations emphasize the importance of finding and training local people to teach business fundamentals. 
 ''You need people who are going to be there for the long term and who know what really works on the ground,'' said Fiona Macaulay, founder and president of Making Cents International, a 10-year-old nonprofit organization in Washington that creates entrepreneurship courses for the disadvantaged and trains the people who teach them.
 Continuing mentorship and support are crucial to helping entrepreneurs succeed, Ms. Macaulay said. Her organization also offers networking opportunities for its students. ''At a business fair in Jordan, for example, we were able to connect a woman who made cakes with a woman who made boxes to transport the cakes,'' Ms. Macaulay said. 
 Many of those who teach entrepreneurship in remote and impoverished areas say the biggest hurdle is persuading students to believe that there are opportunities beyond, say, selling fruits or trinkets in an open-air market. 
 ''I'd say getting them to identify new approaches and opportunities is the hardest part,'' said Harsh Bhargava, a business consultant in McLean, Va., who with his wife, Aruna Bhargava, a sociology professor at Rutgers, started the nonprofit group I Create in 1997 to teach entrepreneurship in India, their native country.
 He says many people I Create works with are so downtrodden they cannot envision another way of life. He discussed an Indian woman who was so abused by her husband and in-laws that she lacked the confidence even to look anyone in the face. After a local I Create trainer persuaded her to take an entrepreneurship course, she left her husband and started a grocery store. 
 Moreover, she successfully sued her husband and in-laws for the return of her dowry and for child support for her son. ''She's now studying to become a lawyer and hopes to work to protect women against dowry-related crimes,'' Mr. Bhargava said. ''It's these kinds of stories that make what we do so gratifying.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A meeting in India led by the nonprofit organization Freedom From Hunger, which provides financial education in poor nations.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MEDIA 7 FOR FREEDOM FROM HUNGER)
 Fred Phillips, right, a business adviser with TechnoServe, helping Susana Nsiah and Yaw Dankwa on a cocoa farm in Ghana. Since 1968, TechnoServe has helped small businesses worldwide.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TECHNOSERVE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MICROFINANCE (91%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); BUSINESS PLANS (78%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (78%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); PAPER & PACKAGING (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (69%); WRITERS (68%); ECONOMIC POLICY (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (66%); CONFECTIONERY MFG (64%); SOAPS & DETERGENTS (64%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: TECHNOSERVE (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (56%) CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (79%); PERU (79%); GHANA (79%); BOTSWANA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2009



669 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 992 words

HEADLINE: Atlantic Yards Project Enters a Crucial Period

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
Armed with a set of concessions wrung from state officials this week for his Atlantic Yards development in Brooklyn, the developer Bruce C. Ratner faces what may be his most daunting challenge. He is trying to raise more than $500 million over the next four months to build the $4.9 billion project's centerpiece: the most expensive basketball arena in the country.
 Mr. Ratner, chief executive of Forest City Ratner, the company that is to build the development, still must get final state approval and withstand any new lawsuits, while selling about $586 million in arena bonds by Dec. 31 in order to qualify for tax-exempt status. 
 On Wednesday, the board of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority voted 10 to 2 to revise a deal to sell Mr. Ratner a railyard that sits within the 22-acre development. Instead of insisting on a $100 million lump-sum payment, the authority gave Mr. Ratner 21 years to pay the money in increments. It also allowed the developer to build a more modest replacement railyard than he had once promised.
 Critics, and even some supporters, have complained that the Atlantic Yards project's public benefits are disappearing before construction even starts. Much of the housing at Atlantic Yards, including 2,250 units for moderate- and middle-income tenants, has been delayed, along with the creation of eight acres of open space. 
 Nonetheless, Gov. David A. Paterson and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg have been eager to ensure that Atlantic Yards, which will eventually include more than 6,000 apartments in 16 buildings, remains alive at a time when projects across the city have been halted by the recession.
 ''Nearly all the alleged public benefits are gone,'' said Daniel Goldstein, a spokesman for Develop Don't Destroy Brooklyn, the project's leading opponent. ''It's highly likely that we'll sue the M.T.A. as a result of their actions.''
 Mr. Ratner has already defeated a string of lawsuits, although courts are expected to rule in the fall whether two cases brought by opponents can be appealed.
 In the coming weeks, Mr. Ratner must complete the documents for his deals with state officials and weather what promises to be a raucous public hearing in late July sponsored by the Empire State Development Corporation. He is lining up construction contracts and designs for the $772 million arena, which would be home to the Nets.
 But Mr. Ratner's highest hurdle may be in securing tax-exempt financing, which would reduce his borrowing costs by tens of millions of dollars. If he fails to meet the Dec. 31 deadline, Mr. Ratner would have a short grace period to secure more expensive conventional financing, but most officials and bankers say that that is unlikely given the still frozen state of the credit markets.
 Atlantic Yards could collapse if that happens. 
 ''In the event they are unable to secure financing under those terms,'' said Gary Dellaverson, chief financial officer for the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, ''the agreement is no longer valid and the M.T.A. would have to decide what to do with the property.''
 Mr. Ratner and his bond underwriters -- Goldman Sachs and Barclays Capital -- expressed confidence in the project and their ability to sell the tax-exempt bonds for the arena (to be known as the Barclays Center), much as the Yankees and the Mets did for their new stadiums. On Tuesday, the Empire State Development Corporation agreed in principle to give Mr. Ratner an extra three years, until 2019, to complete the development.
 ''Delays due to litigation and a difficult economic environment required the approved changes,'' Mr. Ratner said in a statement released Wednesday. (Forest City Ratner was the development partner for the new Manhattan headquarters of The New York Times Company.) 
 The developer's bankers or underwriters are visiting bond rating agencies and a bond insurer to outline their plans for about $586 million in tax-exempt bonds and another $30 million in conventional financing, they say. The bonds would be issued by the state development corporation, possibly in early October, with the developer responsible for the annual debt payments, which are expected to be about $45 million.
 The bond proceeds would be placed in escrow until the state got court approval for condemnation, notified dozens of tenants on the site to vacate and conveyed the property to the developer.
 Although it is nearly impossible to get financing for large real estate projects today, the bankers say a bond sale should go smoothly. They are emphasizing the arena's proximity to a transit hub with 10 subway lines and a Long Island Rail Road station.
 ''The credit markets have gotten a lot better in the last 90 days, especially the tax-exempt market,'' said Gregg Carey, chief of the sports financing group at Goldman Sachs. ''We're attempting to get investment-grade rating. As long as the market doesn't deteriorate, we are confident this can be done.''
 The bonds are backed by arena revenues, including the sale of club seats, luxury boxes, advertising and sponsorships. Mr. Ratner and the Nets have already signed a 20-year, $400 million naming rights deal with Barclays Bank, and reached eight sponsorship deals worth $100 million.
 ''They have more sponsors signed up than any other deal I've financed before,'' said Mr. Carey, who has worked on 30 stadiums and arena projects. ''Brooklyn is a big deal, for the league, the team and the metro area.'' But they still need to sell the luxury suites and sign contracts with additional sponsors. That may not be easy. 
 The Yankees and the Mets had difficulty selling their most expensive seats this year for the opening season for their new stadiums.
 Matt Yonan, president of Tigris Sponsorship and Marketing, which represents corporations in sports deals, said companies were not spending as freely on advertising. ''Finding sponsors at the level they need for the long haul is a difficult proposition,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); LITIGATION (75%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (75%); TAX LAW (74%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (73%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); BASKETBALL (71%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (69%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (69%); EXECUTIVES (56%)

COMPANY: EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (62%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%); DAVID PATERSON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2009



670 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 624 words

HEADLINE: Our Crisis of Regulation

BYLINE: By RICHARD A. POSNER. 
Richard A. Posner, a judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, is the author of ''A Failure of Capitalism: The Crisis of '08 and the Descent Into Depression.''

DATELINE: Chicago 

 BODY:
 THE 88-page report issued by the Treasury Department last week proposes far-reaching changes in financial regulation. Unfortunately, the report is premature, overambitious and obsessed with reorganization. It is also afflicted by Roosevelt envy.
 It is natural for a new president, taking office during an economic crisis, to want to emulate the extraordinary accomplishments of Franklin D. Roosevelt's first months. Within what seemed the blink of an eye, the banking crisis was resolved, millions were hired into public-works jobs and economic output rose sharply. But that was 76 years ago, and the federal government has since grown fat and constipated. The program set forth in the new Treasury report, heavy on structural change, could take decades to put into effect.
 The report is premature because there hasn't been time to study causes of the current crisis in depth -- and until these causes are determined we won't know how to prevent a recurrence. We need some counterpart to the 9/11 commission's investigation of a previous unforeseen disaster. 
 The causal account in the report is radically incomplete. It ignores the elephant in the room: the regulators, including the Federal Reserve and the Securities and Exchange Commission, were asleep at the switch, oblivious to the housing bubble and the rapid deterioration of the finance industry. When suddenly awakened by the financial crash, they reacted with spasmodic improvisations that sapped business and public confidence. 
 The report is scathing about the financial incontinence of bankers and consumers but complacent about regulatory failures. It suggests that these failures can be cured bureaucratically by creating a consumer financial protection agency, a national bank supervisor and a council of regulators, and by giving the Federal Reserve discretionary authority over the entire financial sector.
 Politicians are instinctively drawn to plans for government reorganization, because such plans are cheap and visible and dramatic. But planning is the easy part; execution is where the American government falls down. Adding bureaucratic layers will not cure the pathologies of regulation, which are rooted in our regulatory culture -- the timidity of civil servants, the contamination of public administration by politics and interest groups, and the power of the ''office consensus'' to marginalize independent thinkers for not being team players.
 Regulatory structure is not the problem; Britain's central bank resembles what the report would like the Federal Reserve to be, yet it did no better in the crisis. The issue is indeed performance, and that is where the focus of reform should be.
 One possibility would be to rotate career regulators through the different financial agencies to reduce balkanization and make a regulatory career more interesting.
 Another possibility would be to finance regulatory agencies by Congressional appropriation rather than by fees paid by the firms they oversee. The current system makes the firms customers rather than wards and incites competition among agencies for clients -- a competition likely to be won by the agency with the least regulatory zeal. 
 The most promising reform would be to give the Federal Reserve, the National Economic Council or the president's Council of Economic Advisers the ability to collect and analyze financial intelligence and do emergency planning. Regulators failed to prevent the financial collapse not because they lacked adequate powers but because they lacked information, a culture of inquiry and a contingency plan. 
 There were abundant warnings of impending economic disaster. Had they been investigated rather than ignored, we might not be in the fix that we are in today.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); BANK FAILURES (76%); CONSUMER LENDING (76%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (72%); HOUSING BUBBLE (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); HOUSING MARKET (70%); APPROPRIATIONS (70%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (69%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (67%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (51%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2009



671 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: Picasso Musketeer Tops Sale By Sotheby's

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
In a crisp, 50-minute sale Wednesday that was choreographed for today's tastes, Sotheby's managed to sell more than $55 million worth of Impressionist and modern art. Though the auction featured just 27 lots, the smallest number of works in a comparable evening sale here since 1997, bidding was consistent, and a late Picasso fetched $11.5 million, the top price of the evening. 
 The spirited bidding on Wednesday night was in stark contrast to Christie's bloated sale the evening before. At that auction, 14 of 44 works went unsold, and it made only $60.4 million, barely above the low estimate. 
 Sotheby's chose not to fill its sale with mediocre material as Christie's did, and instead offered fewer works of higher quality in the hopes that they might be irresistible to those buyers who still have expendable cash in this economy. ''If something had a shred of quality, it went romping away,'' Thomas Gibson, a London dealer, said after the Sotheby's sale.
 The evening totaled $55.3 million, in the middle of its estimate of $44 million to $61 million. Just 4 of 27 works failed to sell. Still, Sotheby's, like all the auction houses, had trouble getting material. Ever since the fall, when these companies sharply curtailed their practice of giving sellers generous financial incentives, they have been struggling. With the price of art lower, collectors for the most part don't want to part with a prized painting, drawing or sculpture unless they have to. By contrast, last year's equivalent sale at Sotheby's brought $201.2 million. 
 Capitalizing on the current fashion for late Picassos, created in part by recent exhibitions at the Gagosian Gallery in New York, the National Gallery in London and the Grand Palais in Paris, both Christie's and Sotheby's sales this week featured the artist's images of musketeers holding swords. This theme of swashbuckling men captured Picasso's imagination during the last years of his life. 
 Sotheby's ''Man With a Sword,'' painted on July 25, 1969, was being sold by John Tolleson, the Dallas financier, who bought it from Landau Fine Art, of Montreal, for what experts say was around $6 million. On Wednesday two bidders were interested, and it wound up going to Samir Traboulsi, a Lebanese financier who lives in London, for $11.5 million, in the middle of the estimate of $9.9 million to $13.2 million. 
 Like Christie's musketeer, which was bought for $9.3 million on Tuesday by the Nahmad family, dealers with galleries in New York and London, Sotheby's painting had been included in an exhibition in Avignon, France, in 1969-70. But Sotheby's canvas -- a musketeer posed against a dramatic red and black background -- was used as the image for a poster advertising the show, and it was a far stronger composition than Christie's painting, which was executed a day later. 
 Final prices include the commission to Sotheby's: 25 percent of the first $:25,000 ($41,000), 20 percent of the next $:25,000 to $:500,000 ($41,000 to $825,000) and 12 percent of the rest. Estimates do not reflect commissions. 
 ''Man With a Sword'' wasn't the only late Picasso for sale at Sotheby's on Wednesday. ''Standing Nude,'' a monumental 1968 canvas depicting a voluptuous woman, carried a high estimate of $6.6 million, and it sold for $7 million to a telephone bidder, one of four potential buyers. 
 The evening also featured a group of three sculptures by Alberto Giacometti. Prices for the artist have been up and down depending on quality; at Christie's on Tuesday, a work by him made $1.6 million. On Wednesday his work did much better than that. ''Buste de Diego (Amenophis),'' a bronze head of the artist's brother cast in 1955, drew four bidders, ultimately going to one on the phone for $5.6 million, more than its high estimate of $4.9 million. Another bust of Diego, this one using painted plaster and made from 1951 to 1954, also went to a telephone bidder, this time for $4.5 million, well above its high estimate of $2.4 million.
 A bronze bust of the artist's wife, Annette, cast in 1963, didn't perform as well. Kim Heirston, a private art adviser in New York, bought it for $2.1 million, above its low estimate of $1.9 million. 
 The sales this week also demonstrated that the appetite for classic Impressionist paintings, seen at the New York auctions last month, remained strong. On Wednesday Sotheby's had Monet's ''Road to Giverny in Winter,'' an 1885 landscape that was being sold by the International Art Center, a company owned by the Nahmad family. Three bidders sought it, and it sold for $6.3 million, just below its high estimate of $6.6 million. (At Christie's Monet's ''At Parc Monceau'' went for $10.2 million, Tuesday night's top seller.)
 ''It was clever not to have any too many lots,'' said David Juda, a London dealer, standing outside Sotheby's after the sale, ''and the work was relatively good.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A Picasso swordsman from 1969 fetched $11.5 million at Sotheby's. (pg. C1)
 A Giacometti bronze was sold for $5.6 million in London.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY SOTHEBY'S)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); ART DEALERS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); PAINTING (89%); SCULPTURE (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%)

COMPANY: SOTHEBY'S (92%); CHRISTIE'S INTERNATIONAL PLC (85%); GAGOSIAN GALLERY (84%)

TICKER: BID (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (92%); SIC5963 DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (92%); SIC5999 MISCELLANEOUS RETAIL STORES, NEC (85%); NAICS453920 ART DEALERS (84%)

PERSON: LARRY GAGOSIAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%); PARIS, FRANCE (68%) NEW YORK, USA (87%); PROVENCE-ALPES-COTE D'AZUR, FRANCE (50%) FRANCE (87%); UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2009



672 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1083 words

HEADLINE: In the Andes, A Toxic Site Also Provides A Livelihood

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO; Andrea Zarate contributed reporting from Lima, Peru.

DATELINE: LA OROYA, Peru 

 BODY:
Claudia Albino, a washerwoman who earns about $3 a day and lives in a one-room hovel with her family in this bleak town high in the Andes, might seem at first to have nothing to do with Ira Rennert, the reclusive New York billionaire who built one of the largest homes in the United States, an Italianate mansion sprawling over more than 66,000 square feet in the Hamptons. 
 But Mr. Rennert's privately held industrial empire includes the smelter with a towering smokestack that overlooks Ms. Albino's home, so the health and economic fate of her and thousands of others here rest on the corporate maneuvers he is carrying out. 
 La Oroya has been called one of the world's 10 most polluted places by the Blacksmith Institute, a nonprofit group that studies toxic sites. But for several months, the Peruvian smelting company in Mr. Rennert's empire has claimed that low metals prices prevented it from completing a timely cleanup to lower the emissions that have given this town such an ignoble distinction. 
 The tensions here over the lead emissions and the smelter's financial meltdown is precisely the kind of dire mix of foreign investment and environmental contamination feared by indigenous groups elsewhere in Peru, particularly in the country's Amazon basin, where protests over similar issues left dozens dead this month. 
 Citing financial difficulties, the smelter's Peruvian operators, who have idled most of its operations, have threatened to close entirely for several months, putting in danger 3,000 jobs at the plant and thousands more who rely on it like Ms. Albino, who washes clothes for the wives of smelter workers. 
 This week, some workers and residents protested against the possible closing, halting traffic and commerce along the highway that descends from La Oroya to the capital, Lima. Then on Tuesday, the government signaled that it might be open to extending the October deadline for the cleanup. Officials involved in talks on Wednesday said that one possible solution to the impasse would involve giving workers some control of the plant. 
 ''This man Rennert, I've heard of him on television, of his great wealth and the homes he has around the world,'' said Ms. Albino. ''As for me, I cannot afford to test the lead levels in my daughters' blood any longer,'' she said, attributing the stunted growth of her youngest daughter, 7, to the smelter's emissions. 
 Residents of La Oroya, with a population of 35,000, talk about the lead in their blood like people elsewhere discuss the weather. Ninety-seven percent of children under the age of 6 had lead levels that would be considered toxic by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in the United States, according to a 2005 study by scientists from Saint Louis University. 
 But while some here seethe against Mr. Rennert and the company, Doe Run Peru, others defend them for providing work, making for a sharply divided town. 
 ''We are thankful to Doe Run,'' said Elizabeth Canales, 40, a seamstress and a member of a company-supported group that teaches hygiene to poor families here. ''It truly saddens me because I don't know if this is happening because there's a misunderstanding.'' 
 Some publicly praise Doe Run Peru while requesting, amid fear of retribution, anonymity to vent their anger at the company. ''This town is owned by one company, and we vassals cannot be seen as disloyal to our owners,'' said one longtime worker. 
 The discord between those for and against the company festers in La Oroya's labyrinthine streets, packed with stands selling foods like seasoned guinea pig and bars catering to the plant's workers, who largely move here from other parts of Peru and earn salaries that dwarf those of other residents. 
 Insults and threats are common. Some workers at the plant recently paraded an effigy of Archbishop Pedro Barreto, an outspoken critic of the company's environmental record, burning it at the culmination of their protest. 
 ''When insults don't work, the company resorts to intimidation, and when that fails, to blackmail, which is what it's doing now by saying it will shut the plant unless it gets an extension for its cleanup,'' said Pedro Cordova, 50, a production mechanic at the smelter who is suing the company over health claims related to a lung ailment. 
 Environmental activists in La Oroya said they saw parallels between Doe Run Peru's strategies here and those employed elsewhere by Renco, Mr. Rennert's holding company. Even as his fortune remained intact, they contend, some Renco companies in the United States faced complaints over environmental contamination and went into bankruptcy earlier this decade. 
 Through a spokesman in New York, Mr. Rennert declined to be interviewed, and Renco would say only that it was in talks aimed at ''reaching a viable solution.'' 
 Doe Run Peru claims that it has ''dramatically reduced'' the toxic emissions at the smelter since buying it from Peru's government in 1997, leading to ''a radical improvement in environmental conditions.'' 
 Still, researchers contend Doe Run Peru has misled officials by using 1997, the year it took control of the smelter, as a point of comparison for pollution levels, since contamination climbed that year. ''Doe Run Peru has overseen an absolute increase in contamination in La Oroya,'' said Corey Laplante, an American scholar who researched La Oroya at the Peruvian Society for Environmental Law in Lima. 
 Despite being pressed by workers here to find a solution, officials in Lima this week said they had concerns about taking over or intervening in the company, pointing to legal battles that could arise from taking some control of a foreign-owned asset. 
 News reports that Renco had tried this month to buy the Swedish automaker Saab, led angry residents here to ask why Doe Run Peru could not complete its cleanup or prevent a shutdown of the smelter at a time when metal prices have begun to climb again. 
 Nearly everyone here wants the smelter to remain open and for the cleanup to proceed. But with Peru forging closer ties to the United States in Latin America through its new trade deal with Washington, some here question the benefits of such a pact.
 ''It's like we're pawns in a game,'' said Rosa Amaro, 52, a leader of an environmental group here. ''What I still fail to understand is why we are exposed to the risks of an American investment,'' she added, ''but not to the environmental protections enjoyed by the citizens of the United States.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Children played soccer, above, next to the American-owned smelter Doe Run Peru in La Oroya. It has been called one of the world's 10 most polluted places.
 Children doing schoolwork at a poorhouse in La Oroya. Many of them have high levels of lead. Additional photos are online at nytimes.com/world.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY TOMAS MUNITA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Discord festers in La Oroya over the possible closing of the smelter. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEAD (89%); HEAVY METALS & TOXIC MINERALS (88%); EMISSIONS (88%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (75%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); LEAD POISONING (75%); CHILDREN (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (68%); SCIENCE NEWS (68%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (68%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (64%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ANDES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) PERU (94%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2009



673 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 325 words

HEADLINE: European Central Bank to Offer Record Amount in Loans

BYLINE: By DAVID JOLLY

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
The European Central Bank said on Wednesday that it would extend one-year loans of more than 442 billion euros ($620 billion) as it sought to thaw lending in the 16 nations that share the currency. 
 The allotment is the largest ever by the European monetary authorities and the first time the bank has offered refinancing loans at 12 months. The operation dwarfs the 348 billion euros that the bank poured into the financial system in December 2007.
 The central bank has so far resisted the ultralow interest rate policies put in place by the Federal Reserve in the United States, the Bank of England and the Bank of Japan, which have taken overnight rates in their economies to near zero.
 ''It's part of the E.C.B.'s strategy for making sure that all of the market's liquidity needs are being met,'' Guillaume Menuet, senior European economist at Bank of America, said in London.
 While it ''clearly makes sense to give the banks as much liquidity as they need,'' Mr. Menuet said, ''it's still not clear that they will actually lend. Lending standards are still being tightened, according to some surveys, so fixing the supply side doesn't necessarily fix the demand side for loans.''
 The bank said that it had filled all requests for loans by the record 1,121 banks that bid at a fixed rate of 1 percent and that the funds would be transferred on Thursday.
 The central bank announced plans on May 7 to undertake such longer-term refinancing operations, but the scale of the offering came as a surprise.
 Christoph Rieger, a strategist at Commerzbank in Frankfurt, wrote in a research note that the amount of funds sought by banks ''has been higher than what could have been expected by most reasonable estimates.'' 
 The initial reaction in European markets was modest, with bond yields and money market rates declining slightly. Stocks, which were little changed after the news, later rose across Europe after a strong opening on Wall Street.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENTRAL BANKS (91%); EURO (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); BONDS (75%); BOND MARKETS (68%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%); COMMERZBANK AG (90%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); BANK OF ENGLAND (57%); BANK OF JAPAN (57%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (94%)

TICKER: CZB (LSE) (90%); CBK (FRA) (90%); BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (57%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (57%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (56%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2009



674 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 537 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 ARAB STATES ALLIED WITH U.S.
 Savor Turmoil in Iran
 The rancorous dispute over Iran's presidential election could turn into a win-win for Arab leaders aligned with Washington who in the past have bitterly criticized President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, political analysts and former officials around the region said. PAGE A10 
 TALKS RESUME IN CHINA
 Chinese and American officials gave a positive assessment of their military talks aimed at addressing the growing nuclear threat from North Korea and several naval skirmishes that have marred relations between the two countries. PAGE A12
 National
 CALIFORNIA MAY BE FORCED
 To Issue I.O.U.'s
 Signaling that California is slipping deeper into financial crisis, the state's controller said Wednesday that his office would soon be forced to issue i.o.u.'s to scores of the state's creditors, as lawmakers failed at their first attempt as a body to close the state's multibillion-dollar shortfall. PAGE A15
 SEARS TOWER GOES GREEN
 The Sears Tower, the 110-story Chicago skyscraper and the tallest office building in the Western Hemisphere, will soon have another unique feature: wind turbines sprouting from its recessed rooftops high in the sky. PAGE A13
 New York
 INCREASE IN JOBLESS BENEFITS 
 Is at Risk in Albany
 A campaign to increase New York's unemployment benefits for the first time in a decade has been sidetracked by the political stalemate in Albany -- possibly for the rest of the recession. PAGE A17
 Business
 DEVELOPING NATIONS 
 May Push World Economy
 After bruising global downturns, the American economy has usually led the world back to growth, but developing countries could be the engine that powers the next recovery. PAGE B1
 ROLE REVERSAL ON THE HILL
 Republican lawmakers are mounting a ferocious attack on Ben S. Bernanke, the Republican chairman of the Federal Reserve, in an inquiry into his role in orchestrating Bank of America's takeover of Merrill Lynch -- while Democrats are coming to his defense. PAGE B1
 Sports
 A SPANISH PROSPECT 
 With Plenty of Hype
 No international player since Yao Ming of China, perhaps, has had the same buildup as Ricky Rubio of Spain. Before playing a single N.B.A. game, the 18-year-old has earned a reputation as a dazzling prodigy. PAGE B13
 Arts
 THE STARS ARE ALIGNED,
 And They're Playing It Big
 Helen Mirren, Ian McKellen, and Patrick Stewart are among a host of television and film stars taking on challenging theater parts in the West End of London this summer. PAGE C1
 IN DEMAND, DESPITE FLOPS
 With two big flops in a row, another risky project on the way and a diva reputation, Eddie Murphy is raising a question in people's minds: Why does Hollywood keep hiring him? PAGE C1
 Home
 LIVING IN A TIME CAPSULE
 Of Home Design
 In the wake of the last decade's renovation boom, house flipping became almost commonplace. But some homeowners have managed to resist the urge, making their houses virtual time capsules of decor. PAGE D1
 Styles
 LEARNING HOW 
 To Listen to Your Body
 When you work out, everyone tells you to listen to your body. But what are you supposed to listen to? Turns out it's not so obvious. Gina Kolata, Personal Best. PAGE E1
 Op-ed
 GAIL COLLINS PAGE A21

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (90%); IRANIAN ELECTION PROTESTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); RECESSION (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (74%); CREDIT CRISIS (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (65%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (65%); FILM (64%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (56%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (58%); BEN BERNANKE (57%); HELEN MIRREN (50%); EDDIE MURPHY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); CHINA (93%); SPAIN (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (55%)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2009



675 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 637 words

HEADLINE: Official Says California May Be Forced to Issue I.O.U.'s

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
Signaling that California is slipping deeper into financial crisis, the state's controller said Wednesday that his office would soon be forced to issue i.o.u.'s to scores of the state's creditors, as lawmakers failed at their first attempt as a body to close the state's multibillion-dollar shortfall. 
 If the i.o.u.'s are issued as threatened, it would be the first time since 1992 -- when Gov. Pete Wilson paid roughly 100,000 state employees with them -- that the warrants were used to hold over those to whom the state owed money. Before that budget crisis, California last issued the warrants during the Depression. 
 ''Next Wednesday we start a fiscal year with a massively unbalanced spending plan and a cash shortfall not seen since the Great Depression,'' the controller, John Chiang, said in a written statement. He added, ''Unfortunately, the state's inability to balance its checkbook will now mean short-changing taxpayers, local governments and small businesses.''
 The issuing of the i.o.u.'s would reflect the state's lack of cash flow and its Legislature's inability to agree on a way to close the roughly $24 billion budget gap, as tax revenues have continued to fall. 
 On Wednesday, shortly after Mr. Chiang made his announcement, lawmakers rejected a plan presented by Democrats to close the gap through service cuts, tax increases and accounting maneuvers intended to push some of the problem into the next fiscal year. 
 Before even broaching the tax increase -- which Republican legislators said they would not accept and Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, a Republican, vowed to veto -- Democrats failed to get enough Republican votes in the Assembly or Senate for the first of 20 proposed budget bills, which contained $11 billion in cuts. After the vote, the Senate president, Darrell Steinberg, dismissed lawmakers until Thursday.
 In February, the Legislature passed a budget for both the 2009 and 2010 fiscal years, but the legislation was dependent on the passage of several ballot propositions that were rejected by voters in May.
 In response, Mr. Schwarzenegger has proposed $16 billion in cuts, largely to state programs for the poor, like the Healthy Family Program, the health insurance program that covers more than 900,000 children, and the state's main welfare program, known as CalWorks, which provides temporary financial assistance to poor families. He also wants to borrow millions from local governments and release some prisoners early to save money. 
 Republican lawmakers are more or less on board with the governor other than on his plan to borrow from localities and release prisoners or lay off corrections officers.
 Democrats wish to reduce the cuts, increase taxes on cigarettes, oil production and cars, and use some accounting maneuvers to get through the years. 
 The threat of i.o.u. warrants ''underscores just how serious this situation is,'' H. D. Palmer, the spokesman for the state's Department of Finance, said in an e-mail message, ''and why it's absolutely critical for the Legislature to get a budget package to the governor in a form that he can sign -- and do it in a matter of days.'' 
 If all sides cannot come to an agreement by July 2, the unusual i.o.u's will be issued to a plethora of creditors. 
 Borrowing money to cover the shortfalls, which is usually done as the Legislature bickers its ways to a budget this time of year, was made impossible this June by the banking crisis, and the Obama administration refused a request to back loans as well. 
 In 1992, Governor Wilson, a Republican, issued the i.o.u.'s to state workers; the workers immediately brought a lawsuit, contending that the state had violated the federal Fair Labor Standards Act. A federal judge approved a $558 million settlement, and some workers received additional vacation time.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); TAX INCREASES (87%); VOTERS & VOTING (86%); GOVERNORS (78%); GREAT DEPRESSION (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); VETO (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); LAYOFFS (75%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (75%); CASH FLOW (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (74%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (74%); FAMILY SERVICES (69%); LEGISLATION (68%); CHILDREN (64%); FAMILY (64%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (64%); REFERENDUMS (63%); HEALTH INSURANCE (60%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2009



676 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ART 'NO SOUL FOR SALE'; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1218 words

HEADLINE: Restoring The 'Eek' To Eking Out A Living

BYLINE: By HOLLAND COTTER

 BODY:
If a marauding spacecraft were to visit Manhattan in the next four days and beam up the former Dia Art Foundation headquarters in Chelsea, a large chunk of the world's nonprofit art spaces would disappear too. 
 From now through Sunday the four-story Dia building on West 22nd Street, with its wide-open spaces and capacious made-for-art roof, is serving as a gathering spot for more than 40 alternative galleries and organizations, with a geographical spread ranging from Rabat, Morocco, to Marfa, Tex. They've come together for an event -- an un-art fair, nonexhibition, sort of convention -- called ''No Soul for Sale: A Festival of Independents.'' 
 It was organized by a New York City nonprofit called X Initiative, which was started earlier this year by a group of artists, curators, and collectors, led by the Chelsea dealer Elizabeth Dee. In March X took over the empty, leaky Dia premises, which the foundation sold in 2007, and installed the first of a series of long-term shows, one of them a fabulous survey of early films by Derek Jarman, who is represented by Ms. Dee. 
 In addition the small but fervent curatorial staff (Cecilia Alemani is director) has pulled together some seriously interesting topical panels and performances. Admission to everything is free. And -- talk about not wanting to overstay a welcome -- X was conceived to last just one year. It is scheduled to close on March 6 next year. Why the big nonprofit powwow? Two reasons: X is between installation cycles, so the building was empty. (The next show opens on July 9.) And, at a time when a whole lot of the art world is nonprofit, whether it wants to be or not, genuine nonprofits, sometimes called alternative spaces, are feeling the pinch in a special way. For organizations dependent on handouts or their own resources, the recession has put the ''eek'' back into eking out an existence. 
 So whether on the principle of safety in numbers or of misery loves company, a passel of these outfits is in Manhattan to mingle, compare notes and show their stuff: books, magazines, films, videos, sound pieces, installations and performances, presented mostly in super-sparse camping-out style. The festival is far less for looking than for hanging out and talking, and conversation is all but inevitable.
 There is, for one thing, little privacy, no art-fairish partitions to give each nonprofit its own nook. Instead the gallery floors have been marked off with strips of masking tape -- the set of Lars von Trier's film ''Dogville'' was the purported model -- and everyone is on the honor system to stay within those lines. And fair use of certain communal resources is being enforced, with all participants being given one (pretty flexible) hour's access to the performance space in the building's ground-floor lobby. 
 Thursday from 1 to 2 p.m. the founder of L'Appartement 22, Abdellah Karroum, will introduce his alternative space through a live Internet feed from Morocco. (He had visa hassles and couldn't make it to New York, though films and zines produced by the gallery did.) 
 Later the New York artist Marilyn Minter will screen her new video, ''Green Pink Caviar.'' And the next few days will bring, among other things, a reading of the Declaration of Independence, a reworked performance of the 1992 Freddie Mercury Tribute Concert and free haircuts. A schedule of performances will be available at the door or at x-initiative.org. It's still in formation as of this writing, but according to the organizers there's room for everyone. 
 Everyone in this case includes some of the most visible alternative spaces in Manhattan, including White Columns, Participant Inc., Storefront for Art and Architecture, Swiss Institute, Dispatch, and the pioneering Internet resource Rhizome, as well as floating publishing ventures like K48 and Empty Purse. 
 Light Industry, an enterprising film-and-electronic-art space in Brooklyn, has assembled a compelling program for the occasion, with lectures on the experimental filmmakers Stan VanDerBeek and Stan Brakhage, and screenings of work by Jaime Davidovich, George Kuchar and Luther Price, an underappreciated artist also showing at Participant Inc. 
 From Brooklyn too come organizations I want to know more about. The activist group Not An Alternative, showing a smartly barbed collaborative take on a public relations campaign, is one. Another is W.A.G.E. (Working Artists and the Greater Economy), which addresses artists' livelihoods and the distribution of wealth, and starts a conversation we should all be having: Why does most of the money generated by the art industry end up in so few hands? 
 The artist collectives Vox Populi and Fluxspace are in from Philadelphia, a city rich in do-it-yourself ventures. Fluxspace will be perched on an elevated platform, carpeted with real grass, from which its members will give audio tours of what's on view by cellphone to off-site callers . 
 Variety is the name of the game. Some groups are represented primarily by publications: Mousse from Milan and Mono.Kultur from Berlin are present in the form of stacks of giveaway magazines. At Swiss Institute's space you can pick up a tabloid written by New York artists who did stints as gallery guards when Dia occupied the premises. (Apparently the building was a quiet place to work before Chelsea became the new SoHo. After that, forget it.) 
 In general group shows are the norm, with an outstanding one at the Rhizome space, and good ones at those of Kling & Bang (Reykjavik), Thisisnotashop (Dublin) and Transformer (Washington).
 But there are a few solo shows, too: Vishal Jugdeo at Lax Art from Los Angeles, an artist called Yokoland at the Office for Contemporary Art Norway, and another called Know Hope, with a mural at Artis Contemporary Israeli Art Fund. David Shull, with an assist from his band Left Coast, has a free-floating exhibition, and he's earned it: he's the chief art installer for X. (Work by a dozen members of his X crew can be seen in a roundup downstairs.) 
 And at least one absentee artist will make his presence felt. Surasi Kusolwong had to stay home in Thailand but gave instructions that $10 bills be regularly dropped on the gallery floors in his name. 
 In a generosity contest, though, Galerie im Regierungsviertel, a k a. Forgotten Bar Project, from Berlin, may get the prize. Installed in Dia's freight elevator, the gallery will change floors every day and provide free drinks to all. If that isn't festive enough, head up to the roof, where Studio Film Club from Trinidad, brainchild of the artists Peter Doig and Che Lovelace, has screenings from 9 to 11 p.m. each night (weather permitting) in an open-air lounge (in case of rain, everything will move indoors). 
 The lounge seats, made from rolled-up up pool noodles of the kind found in children's swimming pools, are designed by the architect Jeffrey Inaba and are arranged to form a giant X, best seen from a spaceship perspective. Bright-colored, resilient and 100-percent recyclable, the material tops off ''No Soul for Sale'' on a positive note: profit or no profit, artists keep doing their thing and art's still afloat.
 ''No Soul for Sale: A Festival of Independents'' continues through June 28 at 548 West 22nd Street, Chelsea; x-initiative.org, (917) 697-4886. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: No Soul for Sale: A woman and a disco ball, part of the festival at the former Dia headquarters in Chelsea.(pg. C1)
A gathering of artists and art lovers on the roof of the X Initiative space in Chelsea on Tuesday night.
 An exhibition space for the ''No Soul for Sale: A Festival of Independents'' art show being held in Chelsea.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); ART COLLECTING (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); FESTIVALS (89%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); FILM (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); MOROCCO (57%)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2009



677 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 368 words

HEADLINE: Judge Allows Lehman To Investigate Barclays Deal

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
A federal bankruptcy judge said Wednesday that managers of the Lehman Brothers estate may investigate whether Barclays got ''too good of a deal'' when it bought Lehman's broker-dealer unit last fall. 
 Barclays, based in Britain, bought the unit after emerging as the lone bidder in the chaotic week after Lehman filed for Chapter 11 protection last September, touching off a global credit crisis. Now Lehman says it wants Barclays to hand over documents and let it interview employees to determine what Barclays actually paid.
 The proceeds of the sale benefit the Lehman estate, which will pay off creditors.
 One issue Lehman seeks to investigate is how much Barclays paid former Lehman employees who went to work there. 
 Barclays had originally promised to pay $2 billion in bonuses. Robert Gaffey of Jones Day, who represents Lehman, said Barclays might have paid only $700 million of that.
 Mr. Gaffey said Bryan Marsal, chief executive of Lehman, had asked how much was paid and had not received an answer.
 Lehman's lawyers also want to investigate whether Barclays gained $5 billion through an undisclosed ''discount'' in a $50 billion repurchase deal tied to the sale. Lehman also plans to look into $1.5 billion Barclays was to pay to get out of some contracts.
 Judge James M. Peck of the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York sided with Lehman, saying that it deserved to know what liabilities Barclays had absorbed. 
 Judge Peck said the sale agreement had been rushed as an unprecedented financial crisis unfolded, and that mistakes might have been made.
 Hamish Hume, a lawyer for Barclays, had argued that the investigation was redundant because the court had appointed an independent examiner. ''It's exceptionally broad and it's very intrusive,'' he said. 
 Peter Truell, a spokesman for Barclays, said it did not expect the investigation to result in any additional claims and that it would continue to cooperate with Lehman.
 Anton R. Valukas, a former federal prosecutor and specialist in white-collar crime, is investigating whether Lehman executives lied, committed fraud or mismanaged the company. He will also look into the Barclays deal.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (90%); JUDGES (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); LAWYERS (78%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (92%); BARCLAYS PLC (91%); JONES DAY (56%)

TICKER: BCS (NYSE) (91%); BARC (LSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (91%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (56%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2009



678 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1579 words

HEADLINE: How to Enlist a Global Work Force of Freelancers

BYLINE: By KERMIT PATTISON

 BODY:
Small businesses increasingly are tapping a new talent pool: the world.
 A new generation of online service marketplaces is giving small companies more opportunities than ever to find specialized expertise and affordable labor. Main Street businesses can shop a virtual international bazaar of freelancers to recruit computer programmers in Russia, graphic designers in San Francisco or data analysts in India.
 ''This is one more step in the path to leveling the playing field between small and large businesses,'' said Thomas W. Malone, a professor at the Sloan School of Management at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and author of ''The Future of Work'' (Harvard Business School Press, 2004). ''A small-business person in a company of one can look to the world like a very large company and have access to all kinds of services -- and that's largely because of this kind of model.''
 These online marketplaces are fueled by several trends. The recession and recent wave of downsizing have forced many corporations to eliminate in-house services and use independent contractors instead. Buyouts and layoffs have pushed many skilled professionals into the freelance marketplace. 
 Meanwhile, technological advances make remote work and virtual teams more feasible. Business processes are allowing companies to mix and match services with more ease than ever. An array of freelance marketplaces are making services tradable online, much as eBay and Craigslist made goods tradable a decade ago. These sites include general freelance marketplaces (Guru, Elance, oDesk) and others offering specialties like software (Rent A Coder), personal assistants (virtualassistants.com), graphics (99designs), or creative services (CrowdSpring).
 Some of these freelance marketplaces are booming. In the first quarter of this year, oDesk freelancers logged 830,000 hours, more than double the figure for the same period the year before and five times the rate in 2007. Nearly 234,000 jobs were posted at Elance last year, an increase of 64 percent over the previous year.
 Fabio Rosati, chief executive of Elance, said his clientele was shifting from an earlier wave of technology-oriented companies toward more traditional small businesses, which now represent about 80 percent of his clients, including mom-and-pop retail stores, manufacturing companies, real estate agencies and physicians. ''We're shifting from early adopters to mainstream,'' he said. 
 These platforms are diversifying beyond mainstay tasks like Web and software development and graphics. Freelancers increasingly are taking on assignments like customer service, data entry, writing, accounting, human resources, marketing, payroll, accounting -- and virtually any ''knowledge process'' that can be performed remotely. Some businesses even are hiring freelancers to set up and manage their corporate profiles on social networking sites like Facebook or Twitter. Using these platforms does not necessarily mean going overseas. In many cases, they are used for ''homeshoring'' to freelancers in the United States for services like graphic design, writing, sales or customer service. The research firm IDC says homeshoring is growing by 18 percent a year.
 In some cases, the cost savings can be substantial: the hourly rates of programmers in Russia, India or Pakistan are a fraction of those in the United States. These freelance marketplaces also allow companies to assemble teams quickly, find specialized expertise, begin new initiatives and drop everything when it's no longer needed. Organizations can remain flat and focus on their core missions.
 When John Wilde, chief executive of Tailor Made Products, a manufacturing firm in Oconomowoc, Wis., wanted to build a Web site for a new line of children's kitchen gadgets called the Curious Chef, he turned to oDesk and hired a firm in India. He paid about $20,000, which he estimates is roughly half what he would have paid in the United States. 
 ''This has given our company a chance to play really, good, solid Internet ball at an affordable price,'' Mr. Wilde said. ''Our little company can afford to have a really top-notch Internet play with this new product line.''
 Getting Started
 The first step is to identify what tasks might be ripe for outsourcing. , an equipment and services firm in Anaheim, Calif., seeks freelancers for two types of tasks: specialized skills that fall outside the expertise of in-house staff, such as programming, and time-consuming tasks, such as researching new sales leads.
 ''We recognize the core competencies of our businesses,'' said Carl N. Kasalek, vice president for business development at Delta Wye. ''In areas where we might not be as strong, we're looking outside for individuals with that as their strong suit who can pick up projects that we're not able to accomplish efficiently on our own.''
 The next step is to choose the platform that best suits the project you have in mind. The marketplace is now crowded with sites of varied specialties and business models. Familiarize yourself with sites by reading the guidelines, job posts and pay rates.
 Start with small bites. Even if you plan to use the contractor for a major project, pick a small assignment as a test run -- preferably one with little financial or operational risk.
 ''When I hire someone new, I give them a little test project on a backup server so they can't mess up any data,'' said Alex Auseklis, vice president for finance at the of Oakland, Calif., which makes True Fruit cups and uses oDesk freelancers for virtually all of its computer programming. ''If it's obvious they're not the right person, you have lost very little.''
 Writing a precise project description is essential. Those who work in offices often forget how much gets picked up by osmosis. A remote employee doesn't have that opportunity -- and may also be hampered by language barriers. ''You need to be crystal clear about what you want,'' said Gary Swart, chief executive of oDesk. ''What do you need done? When do you need it done by? What are characteristics of the people who have been successful in that job in the past? The cleaner you can articulate that, the higher degree of success you'll have.''
 Managing a Virtual Work Force
 Managing freelancers is an easier task when companies are buying a finished product. For example, on CrowdSpring and 99designs, companies post fixed-price jobs and pick their favorite proposal.
 Still, 99designs urges companies to provide continuing feedback as the proposals roll in. ''First and foremost, it's important to be as hands-on as possible,'' said Matt Mickiewicz, co-founder of 99designs. ''If you post a project and leave it for a week, you probably won't be happy with the result. Design is an iterative process. The more you participate, the happier you will be with the final output.''
 Jeremiah Owyang offered $250 for a blog logo on CrowdSpring and spent hours critiquing the proposals. ''I received over 100 entries,'' he said. ''It required a lot of manual review and feedback from me -- a tremendous amount of time. Whatever I was saving in money, I had to put in a lot of extra time to keep the communications up.''
 Other sites require more careful vetting of workers because companies are hiring someone for a future task. Many feature ratings from past employers and job histories. Elance and oDesk offer a battery of tests to measure skills like English proficiency, e-mail etiquette, accounting and hundreds of Web and programming applications.
 When hiring, companies should follow all the usual best practices short of the in-person interview. ''Do the same things you would do offline -- you're still going to interview, still going to get references and still going to ask for samples of work,'' Mr. Swart said. ''Treat it like the real word because it is -- it just happens to be remote and online.''
 One common mistake is to think outsourcing allows you to put a project out of sight and out of mind. Instead, Mr. Rosati of Elance recommends that companies break projects into segments, establish milestones and keep tabs on progress. ''Whenever you hire someone, it's really important to recognize you have responsibility for the outcome,'' Mr. Rosati said. ''You can't completely hand things over to someone and say, 'Go off and do it, and I'll see you in a month' -- unless you've worked with the person, and they know exactly what you want.''
 Some sites have features to assist oversight and collaboration. Elance and oDesk offer virtual work rooms and automated systems for tracking hours and payments and for generating tax documents. Some even allow snooping: oDesk takes screen shots of the freelancer's computer six times an hour.
 When Carl Kasalek, a tech-savvy 26-year-old, first proposed using freelancers at Delta Wye, he encountered skepticism from his boss -- the founder of the company who also happens to be his father. How could they trust a stranger from the murky online world? How could they be sure the freelancer wouldn't take their sales leads or data to competitors? But after a dozen successful projects conducted through Elance with both domestic and international freelancers, Mr. Kasalek says his father is sold on the freelance marketplace.
 ''There have been multiple times when I've said, I'll do this on my own, and he'll say, 'No, let's send that one out,' '' Mr. Kasalek said with a chuckle. ''The mind-set has completely changed.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (91%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); SOCIAL MEDIA (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (77%); RETAILERS (77%); HUMAN RESOURCES (77%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (77%); TRENDS (76%); REAL ESTATE (73%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); VISUAL ARTISTS (72%); WRITERS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (60%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (50%)

COMPANY: CRAIGSLIST INC (54%); FACEBOOK INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (57%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (54%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (72%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (57%) INDIA (91%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2009



679 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: The Only Public Health Plan We Need

BYLINE: By DAVID RIEMER and ALAIN ENTHOVEN. 
David Riemer is the director of Community Advocates Public Policy Institute in Milwaukee. Alain Enthoven is a professor emeritus of management in the Graduate School of Business at Stanford.

 BODY:
CONGRESS will soon decide whether to create a public health plan to compete with private insurance companies and thus lower the cost and raise the quality of care.
 Everyone assumes that a public plan means a government-sponsored insurer that makes payments to doctors and hospitals, whether in the form of Medicare or -- the latest idea -- state-sponsored cooperatives. But Medicare has a dismal record of controlling costs and improving quality, and we lack evidence that co-ops could do any better.
 A better public plan would not be a new government-run insurer at all, but rather a government-chartered mechanism that would let employers and individuals buy health coverage from private insurers in a manner that uses the three most essential market forces -- choice, competition and incentives -- to reduce the price and improve care. 
 Congress is already looking to create federal or state ''exchanges'' through which individuals could comparison shop for health insurance. Exchanges pool large numbers of people and give them access to various health care plans -- so that individuals can enroll in the plan of their choice, and so that risks and administrative costs can be spread widely. 
 An exchange is a key feature of the public plan we'd like to see, but it's only one element. Two other features are needed to give an exchange the power to pressure insurers -- whether health maintenance organizations, preferred provider organizations, or fee-for-service plans -- to hold down prices and improve care.
 First, the exchange would need to act on behalf of a critical mass of people -- at least 20 percent of the insured population that does not already receive Medicaid or Medicare. Only a pool of this size could attract serious bids from insurers. To amass such a large purchasing pool, Congress might need to require that all government employees, or all employers with fewer than 100 employees, join the pool. 
 Second, the exchange would need to ensure that no subsidies for health insurance, whether provided by employers or the government (through the tax system), exceed the price submitted by the lowest-bidding qualified insurer and benefit package. All individuals in the pool would be free to join any insurer that submits a bid. But enrollees would have to pay out of pocket -- and preferably with after-tax dollars -- any amount above the price of the lowest-bidding plan. 
 This second feature would ensure that all parties would have a strong incentive to enroll in the lowest-cost plans. 
 If insurance buyers had this incentive, insurance sellers would finally face what's been entirely missing in America's health insurance market: a powerful reason to put together good, economical plans. 
 How would insurers lower prices and raise quality? By passing their incentive along to doctors and hospitals. To maximize their revenue from insurance companies, doctors and hospitals would need to provide better care at a lower price -- something they can accomplish only by squeezing out error, waste and inefficiency.
 This type of public plan has already been proven to work. In Dane County, Wis., the state employee health plan operates a purchasing pool on behalf of nearly 24 percent of the roughly 350,000 insured residents of the county who don't get coverage from Medicaid, Medicare or other federally subsidized programs. These state employees (and their spouses and children) choose from among four well-regarded H.M.O.'s as well as a fee-for-service alternative. The state limits its contribution to a dollar amount just below the prices bid by the comparably low-priced H.M.O.'s, and requires enrollees to pay much of the cost of the high-priced, inefficient fee-for-service alternative. 
 Even though the Wisconsin plan doesn't follow all the rules for the ideal public plan exchange, the state spends far less per employee in Dane County than it does in other parts of the state, where a key feature -- a big enough pool -- is missing. According to a December 2007 study, individual coverage in Dane County cost the state $360 to $1,500 a year less than in the rest of Wisconsin, and family coverage was $950 to $3,840 less -- even though all state employees have similar incentives to choose economically. 
 Yes, the United States needs a public plan to discipline the private insurance market. But simply adding another insurer, whether it's Medicare or a cooperative, won't do the job. At worst, it would simply add a high-cost, mediocre-quality insurer to a market already crowded with them. At best, it would misuse the government's power to set prices without getting at the underlying errors, waste and inefficiency in America's overpriced health care system.
 What we need instead is a public plan that will impose a stern and lasting discipline on our insurance market -- and at the same time insure everyone, provide excellent benefits and offer abundant choices.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JOEL HOLLAND) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (93%); HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); TAX LAW (79%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (72%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (58%); MEDICAID (58%)

COMPANY: AMERICA'S HEALTH PLAN INC (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2009



680 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: Emerging Countries May Also Be Driving the Global Economy

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ and MATTHEW SALTMARSH; Cat Contiguglia contributed reporting from Paris.

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
After bruising global downturns, the American economy has usually led the world back to growth, but developing countries could be the engine that powers the next recovery.
 Despite fears just months ago that they would be among the biggest victims of the financial crisis, emerging giants like China, India and Brazil are set to rebound strongly next year, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development predicted Wednesday -- as Europe, the United States and Japan lag.
 ''It's good to have a locomotive out there pulling the train,'' Angel Gurria, the O.E.C.D.'s secretary general said, referring to China, India and Brazil. ''But we can't put the onus on their shoulders -- they help, but they can't get us out of the hole.'' 
 The divergence between the emerging and the developed countries suggests that the once-popular theory of decoupling -- the notion that the emerging markets could be moving independently of the developed economies -- may make a comeback. 
 When the emerging markets were also brought low by the global financial crisis, the theory was abandoned for talk of ''recoupling.'' 
 Now, is ''re-decoupling'' at hand?
 Mr. Gurria argues that the net result of faster emerging market growth would be ''absolutely positive,'' but he acknowledges that one early side effect is already evident in the form of surging oil prices, which have risen to nearly $70 a barrel, from $33 in February. 
 ''Why is oil doubling when we are in the deepest recession ever?'' Mr. Gurria asked.
 ''Decoupling is back as a thesis,'' said Adam Posen, deputy director of the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington. ''And we should recognize how different the current situation is from past crises.''
 Striking a somewhat optimistic note, the O.E.C.D. said that thanks to stimulus programs in the United States and elsewhere, the downturn appeared to be nearing bottom. It warned, however, that the recovery was likely to be fragile, with unemployment growing and unused production capacity remaining for years.
 And increased savings by American corporations and consumers could partly offset the stimulus, tamping down growth in the United States and around the world.
 Economists have furiously debated whether decoupling was taking place. It would mean a fundamental shift in the global economy -- that traditionally dependent developing economies move according to their own fundamental trends rather than the ups and downs of the developed countries. Increasing independence could lead to increasing influence and a relative shift in global economic weight toward the emerging giants, especially China. 
 The 30 industrialized members of the Paris-based policy and research group account for roughly 60 percent of global economic output. 
 ''I think it's clear that the situation in emerging economies has changed if you compare it with where we were 15 years ago,'' said Jorgen Elmeskov, acting head of the O.E.C.D.'s economics department.
 According to the O.E.C.D.'s semi-annual report, China could grow 7.7 percent this year and 9.3 percent next year, faster than previous estimates. India could grow 5.9 percent this year and 7.2 percent next year, and Brazil's economy, after slowing down, will reverse this year and expand 4 percent next year.
 The O.E.C.D. predicted the United States economy would shrink by 2.8 percent this year and grow by 0.9 percent next year, a bit better than the flat performance the organization estimated in March.
 By contrast, the Japanese economy is expected to shrink 6.8 percent this year while Europe should contract 4.8 percent in 2009, with both regions hit harder than in earlier O.E.C.D. forecasts.
 The decoupling hypothesis has had nearly as many ups and downs as the global economy itself.
 As the post-World War II economy recovered and globalization took hold, economists detected a pattern in which a slowdown in the developed world led to an effect that made conditions far worse in poorer countries, said Mr. Posen.
 But by 2007 and 2008, he explained, decoupling was gaining currency as the United States economy slowed but Brazil, Russia, India and China continued to grow. When those countries then hit the wall late last year, it seemed as if the decoupling thesis was also dead.
 Now, he said, with China and other emerging countries seemingly leading the way, the idea that countries like China, India and Brazil are going to play a far bigger role in global economic expansion is coming back in vogue.
 If decoupling were a reality, it could be good for the developed countries, as growing wealth in China and India could, in theory, increase demand for goods made in recession-battered countries like Japan, Germany and the United States. (China and India might require import-oriented consumer economies for that to happen, which is not currently the case.) 
 On the negative side of the ledger, emerging market-centered growth could spur higher interest rates in the West and Japan, and push up prices for oil and other commodities when the developed world could least afford it.
 Another potential downside of decoupling could be a tsunami of capital from developed markets washing over emerging economies and inflating values, said Simon Johnson, a former chief economist for the International Monetary Fund who is now a professor at the Sloan School of Management at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
 That boom-and-bust pattern has a long history, he said, including in the 1970s, when petrodollars recycled by American banks created a bubble in Latin America.
 Today's rising crude prices could eventually help revive Russia, another emerging giant that is still ailing, but they could prove to be an especially painful blow for the euro-zone economy, which the O.E.C.D. predicts will continue to shrink for the rest of 2009 before barely growing in the first half of 2010.
 Economic performance will be ''very patchy in Europe,'' Mr. Gurria said, with unemployment projected to reach 12.3 percent for the region by the end of 2010, compared with 10.1 percent in the United States and 5.8 percent in Japan.
 In the meantime, the prolonged slowdown on the Continent, especially in Germany, is spurring locally based giants like Siemens to look to the emerging markets for growth.
 Siemens, a diversified manufacturer, already derives about a third of its nearly 80 billion euros in revenue ($111 billion) from emerging markets -- with 9 billion euros coming from Brazil, India and China alone. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CHINA: The economy is expected to grow 7.7 percent this year and 9.3 percent in 2010, the O.E.C.D. said. Construction in Wuhan.(PHOTOGRAPH BY AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
INDIA: The economy is expected to grow 5.9 percent this year, and 7.2 percent next year. An oil bottling plant in Mundra.(PHOTOGRAPH BY AMIT DAVE/REUTERS)
 BRAZIL: The forecast is for a contraction of almost 1 percent this year, and 4 percent growth in 2010. Stock traders in Sao Paolo.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MAURICIO LIMA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMERGING MARKETS (92%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); TRENDS (78%); RECESSION (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); MARKET SIZE (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (65%); PRICE INCREASES (64%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (65%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (58%) CENTRAL CHINA (78%); HUBEI, CHINA (58%) UNITED STATES (96%); INDIA (94%); CHINA (94%); BRAZIL (94%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (65%)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2009



681 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1311 words

HEADLINE: Irony and the Old Lady

BYLINE: By CATHY HORYN

 BODY:
FIRST go the knees, then goes irony. Sometime around age 50, women start to let go of certain ideas about themselves and fashion. Up till then you can wear lots of silly or brash things, and if you are reasonably fit and attractive or consistently daring, it doesn't really matter. You're still with the tide. You are home free with your esoteric Pradas, your porkpie hats and coy Lolita socks, and no little voice is going, ''Heh-heh-heh, you're too old for that.''
 Let's assume, for argument's sake, that you are not Helen Gurley Brown, the miniskirted octogenarian. You love your youthful ideals but draw the line at being a slave to them 50 years on. Saying goodbye to short skirts and flimsy tops is actually liberating.
 Irony is harder to part with -- for the simple reason that many of us who are now in our 50s grew up with that kind of cerebral fashion and were happy to have clothes that made reference to ideas, worlds, that only those in our orbit could understand. Our mothers (mine, anyway) did not see the point in adopting flannel shirts or rummaging through Goodwill bins for just the right filthy cardigan. 
 And why would they? Grunge and deconstruction, which provided a counterpoint to the slick, aggressive fashion of the late 1980s, were our peculiar trip. My mother always preferred her own rose-colored glasses. ''Can't you be a lady?'' she would say with a sigh. She thought women should look beautiful, while I pondered the meaning of Miuccia Prada's ''ugly beauty.''
 So it goes. I still think I will buy myself a pair of knee socks and wear them with high heels -- didn't Prada show a fabulous pair this season? But the truth is I won't be buying them. While I'm still in love with the ironical gesture and its mild but wholly satisfying orneriness and freedom in the face of so much conformity and New Jersey housewife opulence, I can't pull it off anymore. I mentioned this to a friend, Luca Stoppini, the art director of Italian Vogue. I asked him why it is that fashionable women can't wear certain things after 50. Luca had the answer right away. ''It's like fighting with the wind,'' he said. 
 Nothing conveys that struggle better than Madonna's attire last month at the Costume Institute gala at the Metropolitan Museum. In addition to wearing a taffeta hair bow that poked up like rabbit ears, she had on a bright blue minidress with a romper hem and a pair of swashbuckler boots that noticeably left a crack of skin showing at the top of her thighs. 
 Although the outfit was plainly a riff on exuberant Paris fashion -- it was designed by a host of the event, Marc Jacobs of Louis Vuitton -- many people took the excessiveness seriously. It shouldn't come as a surprise that some members of the low-brow media on the steps of the Met didn't get the joke. But, in any case, they thought that Madonna, who is 50, looked like a nut. 
 One person who didn't was Simon Doonan, the creative director of Barneys New York, who said last week, ''To me, that's the Madge I fell in love with.'' He let out a laugh. ''Scandal!''
 Tama Janowitz, whose fiction chronicles a mixed bag of urban obsessions, often with fashion at the flaky core (her next novel, ''They Is Us,'' projects a future in which women wear codpieces and men high heels), sent her thoughts in an e-mail message. It began: ''90 percent of the time designers create a look that is basically unflattering to the female physique unless you are a 20-year-old, six-foot-tall model, in which case it does not make any difference what you have on. Madonna looked stupid in her rabbit ears.'' Then she added, ''Is that because of the times or her age?''
 Yet a feeling of betrayal soon nipped at Ms. Janowitz's e-mail message, and I understood it. She mentioned the names of a half-dozen eccentric women, birdlike creatures and deities less admired for their beauty than their captivating presence. She might have also mentioned Marchesa Luisa Casati, who was pre-goth. Or Anna Piaggi of Italian Vogue, whose highly theatrical style places her above mundane questions of appropriateness. It must be said that Ms. Piaggi's look, highlighted by bright color and a miniature hat tipped over her whitened brow, demands a commitment few women possess. 
 As Luca said: ''Even in the middle of summer, in the countryside, she doesn't go out unless she's dressed like that. It's her sense of life.''
 By the end of her note, Ms. Janowitz had come to the defense of women everywhere who resent being bullied and sniggered at and wish to express themselves at the risk of looking ridiculous. ''If Madonna was wearing a bustle and a hoop skirt,'' she wrote, ''why would it irritate?''
 Still, I wonder: Madonna certainly looks in terrific shape for 50. Yet precisely for that reason did the queen of self-presentation slide toward self-persuasion with her rabbit ears? Was there a wind blowing through the Met?
 Irony has been an essential ingredient in fashion for at least the last 40 years -- in the kinky clothes of Jean Paul Gaultier, in the recontextualizing of drag and vintage styles by Yves Saint Laurent and John Galliano, in a spree of men's wear that deconstruct the I.B.M. suit, most recently by Thom Browne. In women's fashion, Mr. Jacobs and Ms. Prada use irony liberally, with Mr. Jacobs roaming across a range of ideas, from Margaret Thatcher's unlikely sexiness to small-town formality during the Depression.
 Some older women who love fashion still prefer a look with an edge rather than a polish. And with the economy forcing many to shop in their closets, they're finding wonderful things. Last week, on a visit to New York, Sandy Schreier, a well-known collector of couture from Detroit, had on a black Jil Sander jacket with a 10-year-old Sander pink tulle skirt and black leggings, finished off with Prada ballet flats.
 ''People stopped me on the street and said, 'Where did you get that?' '' Ms. Schreier, a grandmother, reported. ''I think that for a while I stopped being Sandy Schreier who would mix up things from different decades. I was getting complacent.'' She added, ''The reason I dress this way isn't just to have fun with fashion, but it's attention-getting -- let's face it.''
 Yet just as many women dislike attention -- or, anyway, that kind of attention. ''The fashion message we're so used to in New York doesn't translate elsewhere in the country,'' said Charla Krupp, a stylist and the author of ''How Not to Look Old.'' ''People don't get the joke.'' 
 For that reason, Ms. Krupp tells older women to err on the side of classic and elegant. ''No irony,'' she said. ''You can't wear that porkpie hat. People will think you've lost it.''
 It may just be that we've had a bellyful of abstractions like irony and now hanker for something direct and concrete. This desire for clarity isn't limited to an age group -- young people seem to crave it, too -- and it's not a defense against the standard complaint that you're not cool enough to get the joke. Who cares if the joke is available to everyone through the Internet?
 Madonna's bunny ears are just the last gasp. Fashion needs a new antidote for modernity.
 ''It's impossible to think of something you can drag out from the land of naffness and make cool,'' Mr. Doonan said, referring to the process by which banal or out-of-date styles are brought back and, after much analysis and decoding and finally brand approval, become fashionable. He offered up the drop-waist denim dress, a wholesome style from the '80s, saying it was rife with ironic potential. 
 I laughed. That was really scraping the bottom of the barrel.
 He thought for a moment. ''To be overweight and not care, like Beth Ditto, is the most transgressive you can be right now.'' But he only said that, I think, because plus-size stories were in a couple of newspapers that day. And you know what they say about newspapers. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: LETTING GO: When do coy socks, Heidi braids and vintage hats stop working? (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FROM LEFT, FRANcOIS GUILLOT/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES
BARRY KING/WIREIMAGE
RICHARD TERMINE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.E1)
IT'S SO HER: The Italian Vogue editor Anna Piaggi's virtuouso look is a full-time job. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JONATHAN PLAYER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 HMMM: Madonna arriving at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EVAN AGOSTINI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.E6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (64%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (59%)

PERSON: MIUCCIA PRADA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2009



682 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 699 words

HEADLINE: Amid Senate Chaos, Hope Fades for a Bill to Raise Jobless Benefits

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
A campaign to increase New York's unemployment benefits for the first time in a decade has been sidetracked by the political stalemate in Albany -- possibly for the rest of the recession.
 Despite having the support of the governor, labor leaders and advocates for the unemployed, a bill to raise weekly jobless benefits on July 1 and close the gap in the state's unemployment trust fund was not addressed by state lawmakers before their regular session ended this week. 
 The maximum benefit, which had been $405 a week for about 10 years until the federal economic stimulus program temporarily added $25 a week, is significantly smaller than those available to residents of New Jersey and Connecticut. New Jersey's maximum is $584 a week; Connecticut's is $576. 
 Negotiations to make the bill more palatable to employers continued through the weekend, giving its supporters hope that Gov. David A. Paterson would present a compromise that could be enacted. But with party leaders distracted by the battle for control of the State Senate, no progress was made.
 The issue was not among those taken up by the Assembly in the final hours of the session that ended early Tuesday, nor was it on the governor's list of measures to be considered by the Senate in special sessions on Tuesday and Wednesday. The Assembly is not currently scheduled to convene until January. 
 The lack of action left advocates worried about the fate of the growing ranks of unemployed New Yorkers.
 ''Meanwhile, the unemployment rate keeps going up, and more and more people are losing their jobs,'' said James Parrott, chief economist for the Fiscal Policy Institute, a research group that focuses on tax, budget and economic issues. ''New York doesn't look good compared to its neighboring states.'' 
 Last week, the state's Labor Department said that more New Yorkers were out of work than at any time in more than 30 years. For May, the state's unemployment rate rose to 8.2 percent and the city's hit 9 percent.
 For certain groups, the situation is much bleaker, Mr. Parrott said. He said that the official unemployment data showed that more than 23 percent of all black men in New York City were either unemployed, working less than full time or had become too discouraged about their prospects to look for work. 
 With many economists forecasting that the national recession will end by late summer, the recovery could begin before additional relief arrived for New York's unemployed.
 The rapid rise in unemployment has also strained the state's trust fund that provides the weekly benefits. The fund has been borrowing from the federal government to cover a shortfall this year. 
 To fill the gap, which is projected to grow through next year, the bill before the State Legislature would have increased the amount of a worker's annual pay that is taxed. Only the first $8,500 is currently taxed to finance the unemployment insurance system, a much lower limit than those in New Jersey and some other states.
 The bill called for annual increases in benefits, starting next Wednesday, July 1, that would raise the maximum weekly benefit to $625 and adjust it for inflation each year after that. Along the way, it would have also gradually raised the payroll tax that goes into the unemployment trust fund.
 But representatives of employers, led by the Business Council of New York State, have opposed the bill, arguing that the automatic annual increases would make the payroll tax too onerous for some businesses. Last week, the Business Council called the legislation a ''job-killing proposal'' that would raise the tax by almost 15 percent in a year.
 The governor's office had signaled that it would create a revised bill that both sides could support, but hopes for a compromise before July 1 faded as the chaos in the Senate dragged on.
 ''It's a big problem that we've fallen so short in terms of not doing this,'' said Andrew Stettner, deputy director of the National Employment Law Project, which advocates for the unemployed. ''What was nice about this legislation was it got the benefits out during the recession and it had a plan for paying back the fund over several years. It was a smart approach.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (93%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POLITICS (90%); RECESSION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); BUDGETS (77%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (76%); LAYOFFS (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (70%); DISMISSALS (68%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2009



683 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 699 words

HEADLINE: Fed Maintains Status Quo, Keeping Interest Rate Near Zero

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Facing an economy that is perking up slightly but still deep in recession, the Federal Reserve left its rescue policies unchanged on Wednesday and said that it would keep interest rates low for ''an extended period.''
 As expected, the central bank said that it would keep its benchmark overnight interest rate at virtually zero -- where it has been since December -- and signaled that it would continue buying long-term Treasury bonds and other government-backed securities to keep long-term rates low. 
Policy makers did not announce any expansion of efforts to stimulate the economy, even though government forecasters predicted that unemployment would continue to rise from its already high level of 9.4 percent and would not begin to edge down until next year.
 In a statement accompanying its decision, the central bank said that the ''pace of economic contraction is slowing'' and noted that financial markets had generally improved while consumer spending had shown signs of stabilizing. 
 Policies put in place ''will contribute to a gradual resumption of sustainable economic growth in a context of price stability,'' the statement said. 
 But the Fed warned that ''economic activity is likely to remain weak for a time,'' and repeated its longstanding vow to use ''all available tools'' to promote a recovery. In its statement, the Fed said that the economy would remain weak and that inflation would remain ''subdued for some time.''
 The Fed's announcement came hours after new data offered more evidence that the downturn was slowing, but hardly over. Orders for durable goods jumped 1.8 percent in May, the second consecutive monthly increase and a much stronger rise than forecasters had been predicting. 
 By contrast, sales of used homes slumped 0.6 percent last month and the supply of unsold homes remained at high levels. As a result, analysts said, home prices have probably not stopped falling.
 The central bank's caution and the new data highlighted the difficult balancing act that policy makers increasingly face. On the one hand, the economy remains so weak that many policy makers want to keep revving up activity by printing money. On the other, they are under pressure from bond investors, who have signaled growing worry that the Fed's efforts will eventually drive up inflation.
 Long-term interest rates have edged up noticeably since the central bank's last policy meeting on April 29, partly because investors have become worried about the huge scale of government borrowing.
 Since the central bank reduced the overnight federal funds rate to a hair above zero, it has been forced to focus on lowering long-term rates by buying nearly $2 trillion in Treasury bonds, government-guaranteed mortgage-backed securities and bonds issued by government agencies. Buying bonds drives up their prices and reduces their yields, effectively lowering interest rates.
 Those purchases did have that effect initially, but long-term Treasury rates have been edging up again, threatening the central bank's recovery plan. 
 ''The Fed is in a box,'' said Frederic S. Mishkin, a former Fed governor who recently returned to his post as a professor of economics at Columbia University's business school. 
 ''With an economy that still has so much slack in it, having an accommodative monetary policy that will help promote a recovery is what's needed right now,'' Mr. Mishkin said. At the same time, ''The Fed does not want to be seen as enabling fiscal irresponsibility, and the markets are very concerned about that.''
 Economists estimate that the American economy continued to shrink in the second quarter but much more slowly. Macroeconomic Advisers, a forecasting firm in St. Louis, estimated that the economy shrank at an annualized rate of 1.3 percent from March through June. By contrast, economic output declined 5.7 percent in the first three months of 2009 and 6.3 percent in the last three months of 2008.
 Largely because of the depth of the contraction, Fed officials and most forecasters see no signs of inflation ahead. Indeed, the fear has been about deflation, a systematic decline in consumer prices of the kind that plagued Japan through much of the 1990s. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An electronic billboard on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange displayed the Fed's announcement on interest rates Monday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SPENCER PLATT/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); RECESSION (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BONDS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); BOND ISSUES (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (74%); EXISTING HOME SALES (74%); HOME PRICES (71%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (70%); DURABLE GOODS (69%); FACTORY ORDERS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2009



684 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 891 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Expected to Paint Bernanke as Ally of Big Government

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS and LOUISE STORY; Edmund L. Andrews reported from Washington and Louise Story from New York. Jo Becker contributed reporting from New York.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
In a peculiar role reversal, Republican lawmakers are mounting a ferocious attack on the Republican chairman of the Federal Reserve, while Democrats are coming to his defense.
 Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed chairman, will be grilled on Thursday by the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee about his role in orchestrating Bank of America's controversial takeover of Merrill Lynch late last year. 
 The House investigation is heavily colored by partisanship. President Obama is proposing to give the Federal Reserve formidable new powers to regulate giant institutions, including Bank of America, that could pose risks to the financial system. 
 Republicans, along with some Democrats, argue that the Fed already has too much power. 
 Unhappy about the huge bank bailouts that the Fed arranged with the Treasury Department during the Bush administration, many Republicans are even more displeased that Mr. Bernanke is now working hand-in-glove with the Obama administration.
 The result is a set of dueling narratives and agendas, all of which will be on full display when Mr. Bernanke testifies on Thursday. Henry M. Paulson Jr., the former Treasury secretary, is expected to testify next month.
 A memo written by Republicans, citing e-mail and internal Fed documents that were subpoenaed from the central bank, is building a case that Mr. Bernanke was a Machiavellian autocrat who forced Bank of America to go through with a disastrous merger that it no longer wanted to complete.
 But the committee's Democratic chairman, Representative Edolphus Towns of New York, is investigating whether Bank of America executives were engaged in an elaborate shakedown, demanding that the Fed and the Treasury provide more than $100 billion in fresh capital and guarantees against the losses that were building up at Merrill Lynch.
 Republicans are circulating newly unearthed e-mail that suggests Fed officials kept the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency in the dark about its efforts to keep the merger alive by informally reassuring Kenneth D. Lewis, the chief executive of Bank of America, that the government would provide the bank with extra help if it was needed.
 By that point, however, the S.E.C. had abdicated to the Fed its authority over investment banks like Merrill Lynch. And the comptroller's office was responsible for overseeing commercial banks, but not the umbrella holding company. 
 The new e-mail message reinforces the impression that Fed officials badly wanted Bank of America to complete the Merrill takeover, despite Merrill's spiraling losses.
 But other e-mail between Fed officials shows that Bank of America executives were pressuring the Fed and the Treasury up to the last minute on Dec. 30, when the deal was scheduled to close, to provide written promises that the government would provide billions in new capital and other protection.
 The documents show that Fed officials refused to provide any specific commitments, though a top official did assure the bank's chief financial officer, Joe L. Price, that the government would provide help, if needed.
 ''I told Joe that we were not yet in a position to proffer a package, but we were working toward something that works for them and for us,'' wrote Kevin M. Warsh, a Fed governor, in an e-mail message to a senior Treasury official on Dec. 30. 
 A little more than two weeks later, the Fed and the Treasury indeed provided huge assistance -- $20 billion in new capital and guarantees against losses for $118 billion in Merrill Lynch assets -- over the protests of Sheila C. Bair, chairwoman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, whose agency would be the guarantor. 
 Mr. Lewis told the oversight committee on June 11 that Fed and Treasury officials pressured him to keep the deal alive, even threatening his job and those of his board members. Mr. Lewis testified early this year to the New York attorney general that Fed and Treasury officials urged Bank of America not to disclose Merrill's losses, but he retreated from that assertion at the June 11 hearing.
 Fed officials have acknowledged that they warned Mr. Lewis that he would be on shaky legal ground if he tried to back out of the deal by invoking a ''material adverse change'' clause. 
 But Fed officials insist they never threatened to oust the bank's executives if they scuttled the deal. In e-mail disclosed before the last hearing, Mr. Bernanke referred to Mr. Lewis's qualms about the merger as a ''bargaining chip'' to get more help from the government.
 Despite Mr. Bernanke's Republican roots, and the fact that President Bush nominated him to be Fed chairman, the Republican memo prepared for the hearing on Thursday describes Mr. Bernanke as a champion of government intrusion and an ally of President Obama.
 ''Given the Obama administration's proposal to vastly expand the Federal Reserve's financial regulatory power over virtually any economic actor,'' it warned, ''the Fed's willingness to keep key regulatory partners such as the S.E.C. and O.C.C. in the dark raises important questions.''
 But Kevin Mukri, a spokesman for the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, said on Wednesday that Fed officials had in fact kept the agency informed about Bank of America's situation.
 ''We were kept apprised,'' Mr. Mukri said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ben S. Bernanke has been criticized by the left and the right.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN LAMARQUE/REUTERS) (pg. B1)
 John A. Thain, left, the former head of Merrill Lynch, and Kenneth D. Lewis, Bank of America's chief executive, last year during takeover negotiations. Mr. Thain was ousted in January.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARIO TAMA/GETTY IMAGES)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); SUBPOENAS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); TAKEOVERS (89%); MERGERS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); BANK FAILURES (72%); EXTORTION (71%); HOLDING COMPANIES (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (92%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); JOHN THAIN (73%); ED TOWNS (58%); KENNETH D LEWIS (58%); HENRY PAULSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2009



685 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM.; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 747 words

BYLINE: By ALIZA ROSENBAUM and GEORGE HAY

 BODY:
A Visa Affiliate
 Is About to Bloom
 The multibillion-dollar initial public offering is back -- at least in Brazil. 
 VisaNet, a credit card processor and Visa affiliate, is set to raise $3 billion in the biggest I.P.O. anywhere since last summer. The company is profitable and growing fast. The offering is also an attempt to harness prospects of a country whose left-leaning government's surprisingly conservative policies have put its economy on relatively solid footing. 
 Brazil's central bank helped it avoid the asset bubbles that have plagued the United States by keeping interest rates high, but not so high as to dissuade consumers from spending, or from paying with plastic. 
 The credit card business in Brazil has been growing rapidly. According to Banco Itau Unibanco, it has risen 48 percent from 2006 to 2008. Card processors enjoyed even stronger growth: VisaNet's earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization jumped 74 percent during the same period, more than the 62 percent at a rival, Redecard.
 Now interest rates are falling, though at 9.2 percent, they remain above inflation. The country's budget deficit is also in check and the economy is expected to grow by 2.7 percent next year. The monetary stimulus and debt reduction is helping to expand the economy as exports drop. That should be good news for the domestic credit card business. 
 Securities regulators have barred 19 retail brokerage firms from participating in the I.P.O. after they advertised the offering ahead of the sale in violation of rules. But the shares could still do well. Investors certainly seem keen: they lapped up Redecard shares when Citigroup sold most of its 17 percent stake in March and the stock has since jumped more than 15 percent.
 VisaNet's offering will give them another chance to play. And at the midpoint of the offering's expected price range, VisaNet would be valued at 10.2 times last year's earnings before taxes, depreciation and amortization. That is an enticing discount to Redecard's 11.4 multiple. 
 VisaNet's size and profitability dwarf those few American companies that have gone public this year. Given the strong reception those smaller deals enjoyed, it will be no surprise if investors choose to give VisaNet -- and by extension the Brazilian government -- some much-warranted credit.
 Reasons to Stay
 Hedge fund investors have the whip hand. With managers desperate for capital after big losses in 2008, new investors have more clout than ever to negotiate fees and terms. But some fund bosses may have to do even more to stop existing investors from pulling out when they can. 
 Chris Hohn, founder of the Children's Investment Fund, could be one manager to find this out. His fund made stellar returns in the boom, buoyed by coups like persuading ABN Amro to sell itself. But picking good targets for activism has become tougher. A recent campaign involving a Japanese electricity wholesaler largely failed, while an initially more successful effort at CSX, the railway company, fizzled out. 
 The Children's Investment Fund, or T.C.I., an activist hedge fund based in Britain, lost more than 40 percent of its value in 2008, and some top staff members left. Investors, locked in for several years, could be forgiven for thinking Mr. Hohn should cut fees or make it easier for them to take money out. 
 With binding commitments from investors, Mr. Hohn could simply do nothing. But that's inviting them to withdraw all their money as soon as they can. The prospect might deter new investors, too. It's no surprise, then, that the fund has been in touch with investors to gauge their sentiment. 
 Certainly, plenty of other fund firms have given existing clients improved terms as an incentive to leave their money invested. In some cases, new investors are being wooed with lower fees. And big pension funds and other institutions are keen on changing the balance of power, for example by ensuring performance fees are based on several years' returns, not just one at a time. 
 The average fund has bounced nearly 10 percent so far this year, according to Hedge Fund Research. If that carries on, the pendulum could swing back a bit toward the funds. But with investors still nervous, even this year's star managers shouldn't count on it -- especially with existing clients still smarting from last year.
 ALIZA ROSENBAUM and GEORGE HAY 
 For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Children's Investment Fund, founded by Chris Hohn, fell more than 40 percent in 2008.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVEN HIRSCH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); EBITDA (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); LIBERALISM (76%); INTEREST RATES (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); CONSERVATISM (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%); BUDGET DEFICITS (69%); SECURITIES LAW (69%); HEDGE FUNDS (60%)

COMPANY: CIELO SA (92%); VISA INC (92%); REDECARD SA (85%); CIA BRASILEIRA DE MEIOS DE PAGAMENTO (VISANET BRASIL) (85%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); RBS HOLDINGS NV (57%); ITAU UNIBANCO HOLDING SA (56%)

TICKER: CIEL3 (BOVESPA) (92%); V (NYSE) (92%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); ABO (ASX) (57%); ITUB3 (BOVESPA) (56%); ITUB (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (92%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2009



686 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1322 words

HEADLINE: ENDING MYSTERY, A GOVERNOR SAYS HE HAD AN AFFAIR

BYLINE: By ROBBIE BROWN and SHAILA DEWAN; Reporting was contributed by Alexei Barrionuevo in Buenos Aires; Laurie Goodstein and Liz Robbins in New York; and Jim Rutenberg in Washington.

DATELINE: COLUMBIA, S.C. 

 BODY:
Gov. Mark Sanford of South Carolina said Wednesday that he had been having an extramarital affair with a woman in Argentina for the last year, ending the mystery surrounding his disappearance over Father's Day weekend and considerably dampening his prospects for a national political career.
 But his confession and apology, in a rambling, nationally televised news conference, left other mysteries unsolved, like whether he had lied to his staff members as late as Monday about his whereabouts, whether the affair had definitively ended, whether he would resign from the governorship and whether he would even have acknowledged the affair had he not been met at the airport in Atlanta by a reporter upon his return.
 Mr. Sanford, 49, admitted that he had been in Buenos Aires since Thursday, not hiking on the Appalachian Trail, as his staff members had said.
 Standing in the rotunda of the South Carolina Statehouse, the governor, a Republican who had been considered a possible presidential candidate in 2012, teared up as he spoke, taking more than seven minutes to apologize before getting to the crux of the matter. 
 ''The bottom line is this,'' he said. ''I have been unfaithful to my wife.''
 The governor's wife, Jenny, 46, who did not attend the news conference, issued a statement later in the day saying that while she loves her husband, she asked him to leave the family two weeks ago in a trial separation, though she still believes the marriage can be repaired. The couple have four sons, the youngest 10.
 ''We reached a point where I felt it was important to look my sons in the eyes and maintain my dignity, self-respect, and my basic sense of right and wrong,'' she said. Because of the separation, she said, she did not know where he was in the last week.
 The governor, who raised his national profile by opposing the Obama administration's economic stimulus plan, said he would resign from his position as chairman of the Republican Governors Association. He will be succeeded by Gov. Haley Barbour of Mississippi. A reporter tried to ask Mr. Sanford if he would resign from the governor's office, but he did not answer.
 Coming a week after the admission of an extramarital affair by Senator John Ensign, a Nevada Republican who had also begun exploring a presidential run in 2012, the governor's acknowledgment was yet another blow to Republican hopes for a strong field of challengers to President Obama.
 ''Personal circumstances over the course of the last week have managed to shrink the front line of the 2012 possible contender list by 30 percent,'' said Phil Musser, a former executive director of the Republican Governors Association.
 Mr. Sanford is regarded as a political lone wolf and has made numerous enemies even within his own party, which controls both houses of the state legislature. Scott H. Huffmon, a political science professor at Winthrop University in Rock Hill, S.C., said it was unclear whether there would be pressure on the governor to resign. ''His opponents,'' Dr. Huffmon said, ''are sitting back trying to figure out if they'd be better off with a completely emasculated governor to deal with or if they'd be better off with Andre Bauer,'' the lieutenant governor, who would take office if Mr. Sanford resigned.
 Mr. Sanford made at least one state-sponsored trip to Argentina during the period of his relationship. In an interview late Wednesday, Daniel Scioli, the governor of Buenos Aires Province, said he met with Mr. Sanford on June 26, 2008, in La Plata, a town outside Buenos Aires. Mr. Scioli said the request for the meeting had come from Mr. Sanford's office via the United States Embassy. 
 The governor was not known as a moralist but has frowned on infidelity and as a congressman voted to impeach President Bill Clinton after the Monica Lewinsky affair. ''He lied under a different oath, and that's the oath to his wife,'' Mr. Sanford said at the time on CNN. ''So it's got to be taken very, very seriously.'' 
 Mr. Sanford and his wife had joined an intensive Bible study group for couples in the last few months, according to William H. Jones, president of Columbia International University, a conservative evangelical college. Dr. Jones said the governor and his wife had been encouraged to join the Bible study by a longtime friend, Cubby Culbertson, a businessman in Columbia who teaches the Bible and who was thanked by the governor in his news conference.
 At the news conference, Mr. Sanford said his friendship with the unnamed woman began eight years ago and became a romance about a year ago. He said he had seen her three times since then. The relationship was ''discovered'' five months ago, he said, and he had been trying to reconcile with his wife. 
 Mr. Sanford strongly implied that he had ended the affair. ''The one thing that you really find is that you absolutely want resolution,'' he said. ''And so oddly enough, I spent the last five days of my life crying in Argentina.''
 On Wednesday afternoon, The State, the leading newspaper in Columbia, published on its Web site several e-mail messages it said it obtained in December between Mr. Sanford and a Buenos Aires woman the newspaper identified only as Maria. 
 In one of the messages, the governor describes himself as being in a ''hopelessly impossible situation of love'' and stops just short of going into what he describes as sexual details of their encounters.
 After a barrage of news media requests about the missing governor began Monday, the governor's spokesman, Joel Sawyer, released a statement on Monday afternoon saying that the governor was taking some time to recharge after the stimulus battle and to work on ''a couple of projects that have fallen by the wayside.'' Ms. Sanford told The Associated Press that her husband had gone somewhere over the Father's Day weekend to write, but that she did not know where.
 Mr. Sawyer played down the controversy as a creation of Mr. Sanford's political enemies.
 Then, around 10 p.m. Monday, Mr. Sawyer sent a ''high priority'' e-mail alert to reporters that Mr. Sanford was hiking on the 2,100-mile Appalachian Trail. Mr. Sawyer flatly denied a television news report that the governor had been seen boarding a plane at the airport in Atlanta.
 At the news conference, the governor said his staff members had based their statements on tentative scheduling information he had given before he left.
 Mr. Sanford's rivals immediately pounced on the apparent confusion in the governor's office.
 ''The people of this state deserve complete honesty from Governor Sanford,'' said State Senator John C. Land III, the Senate Democratic leader, in a statement issued Wednesday morning before the news conference. ''Never in my 32 years as a state senator have I witnessed a governor and his staff act in a more dishonest, secretive and bizarre manner.''
 But Mr. Land said that he doubted there would be pressure for Mr. Sanford to go because a resignation would mean that State Senator Glenn McConnell, the powerful president pro tem, would have to become the lieutenant governor, a relatively powerless position.
 Mr. Sanford recently lost a high-profile battle to divert $700 million in federal stimulus money toward reducing the state deficit, challenging the Obama administration on the issue. 
 Critics said he was simply seeking to raise his national profile, but the governor maintained that his primary goal was to strengthen the executive office in South Carolina, where the governor has few powers. 
 Mr. Sanford has long been known as an iconoclast. As a congressman, he slept on a futon in his office. To showcase his opposition to pork-barrel spending, he once brought two live piglets onto the floor of the legislature. 
 Still, many were shocked by his announcement. ''I never figured Sanford for anything like this, said Neal D. Thigpen, a political science professor at Francis Marion University in Florence, S.C.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gov. Mark Sanford of South Carolina, in a tearful, confessional news conference Wednesday. (pg.A1)
Gov. Mark Sanford, at his swearing-in ceremony in January 2007. On Wednesday, Mr. Sanford issued a public apology to his wife, Jenny, and four sons. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARY ANN CHASTAIN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.A14) GRAPHIC: HOW THE STORY UNFOLDED: THURSDAY Gov. Mark Sanford, a Republican, leaves the governor's mansion in Columbia, S.C., in a sport-utility vehicle assigned to his security detail. He had told members of his staff that week he was thinking of taking a trip to the Appalachian Trail. FRIDAY Law enforcement officials try to reach Mr. Sanford on his cellphone with no success. SATURDAY State Senator John M. Knotts, a Republican rival of Mr. Sanford, calls the State Law Enforcement Division, which is in charge of the governor's security, to confirm rumors of Mr. Sanford's disappearance. SUNDAY Lt. Gov. R. Andre Bauer, a Republican, learns of the situation. MONDAY Mr. Knotts issues a statement about Mr. Sanford's absence. Local news outlets begin to report the story. The governor's office issues its first statement of the day: ''Gov. Sanford is taking some time away from the office this week to recharge after the stimulus battle and the legislative session.'' Mr. Sanford's wife, Jenny, says she is unaware of her husband's whereabouts. Mr. Bauer's office says Mr. Sanford's chief of staff had ''assured'' them that he had spoken with the governor. But later Mr. Bauer tells reporters that the governor's office denied his request to speak to Mr. Sanford because ''the governor's chief of staff does not know where the governor is.'' Mr. Sanford's office denies telling Mr. Bauer's office that someone had spoken with the governor. In its second statement, Mr. Sanford's office says: ''Before leaving last week, he let staff know his whereabouts and that he'd be difficult to reach.'' Mr. Sanford's office issues another statement at 10 p.m. saying Mr. Sanford is ''hiking along the Appalachian Trail.'' The office does not say where, however, the governor is on the trail. TUESDAY Mr. Sanford's office says the governor was ''somewhat taken aback'' by the reaction to his trip and was planning to return the next day. His wife says she still has not heard from him. WEDNESDAY After returning from his trip, Mr. Sanford says he considered hiking the Appalachian Trail but decided ''to do something exotic'' instead. Later he admits to having an extramarital affair with a woman in Argentina. (Sources: The State newspaper
 other news reports) (pg.A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESS CONFERENCES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (88%); MARRIAGE (78%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); MISSING PERSONS (77%); RESIGNATIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (66%); EXECUTIVES (63%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (59%)

PERSON: MARK SANFORD (94%); HALEY BARBOUR (59%); JOHN ENSIGN (57%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBIA, SC, USA (93%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%); MADISON, WI, USA (79%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (95%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (94%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); ARGENTINA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2009



687 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1046 words

HEADLINE: Arab States Aligned With U.S. Savor Turmoil in Iran

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SLACKMAN; Mona el-Naggar contributed reporting.

DATELINE: CAIRO 

 BODY:
The rancorous dispute over Iran's presidential election could turn into a win-win for Arab leaders aligned with Washington who in the past have complained bitterly that President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad was destabilizing the region and meddling in Arab affairs, political analysts and former officials around the region said.
 The good-news thinking goes like this: With Mr. Ahmadinejad remaining in office, there is less chance of substantially improved relations between Tehran and Washington, something America's Arab allies feared would undermine their interests. At the same time, the electoral conflict may have weakened Iran's leadership at home and abroad, forcing it to focus more on domestic stability, political analysts and former officials said. 
 ''When Iran is strong and defiant they don't like her and when Iran is closer to the West they don't like her,'' said Adnan Abu Odeh, a former adviser to King Hussein of Jordan.
 Of course, such an outcome could also prove to be wishful thinking, political analysts cautioned. Other power centers in Iran, from the supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, to the military, can have more influence over regional policy than the president. It is also possible that a deeply divided leadership could aim to exacerbate regional tensions to distract attention from its domestic problems. 
 The Iranian standoff may also serve as a cautionary tale for Arab leaders who have watched as modern technology, like the Internet, social networking sites and cellphones, has yet again undermined the ability of authoritarian states to control access to and distribution of information.
 But the cultural and social differences between Iran and Arab states are so great, there was no sense that leaders feared their citizens would be inspired to rise up. Iran is an important and influential nation in the Middle East, but it is also distant from the Sunni Arab street as a majority Persian country with a majority Shiite population.
 ''A lot of young people in the Arab world would love to see something like that, but the kind of civil society they have makes it much more natural for this to happen in Iran than in a place like Egypt or Saudi Arabia,'' said Ahmed al-Omran, a college student in Saudi Arabia and author of the popular blog saudijeans.org.
 Moreover, the dramatic video of Iranians being beaten or shot by Basijis has done incalculable damage to Iran's image as the region's most religiously pure and populist state. Iran's allies in the region, including Syria, as well as Hezbollah in Lebanon and the Hamas movement in the Palestinian territories, also seem likely to suffer a blow to their credibility, and perhaps to their financing, if the election crisis is resolved with heavy suppression or an extended standoff with the opposition, analysts said. 
 One gauge of how Arab leaders are reacting to the Iran crisis is their silence. Officials seem eager to avoid even the appearance that they are trying to influence the outcome, political analysts said. The state-controlled media outlets around the region have also been relatively low key in their coverage. 
 ''When you are waiting so much for something that makes you happy, you hold your breath, you make less noise in order not to affect the outcome,'' said Randa Habib, a political analyst and columnist in Amman, Jordan. 
 Iran's allies, on the other hand, are restive. Emad Gad, an Egyptian expert in international affairs, said that he saw evidence of Iran's allies, especially in Syria, trying to hedge their bet on Tehran. He said that Syria had in recent days been more willing to help Egypt press for reconciliation between Palestinian factions.
 ''I think Ahmadinejad will concentrate in the economic field to improve living conditions for his population after this crisis,'' Mr. Gad said. ''That means less giving money, less meddling, less penetration in the Arab world, less involvement.''
 When the Iranian government first announced that Mr. Ahmadinejad had won a landslide victory, there was a collective sigh of regret among Arab leaders aligned with Washington. They had hoped that the reform candidate, Mir Hussein Moussavi, would win, but they instead ended up -- it appeared -- with an emboldened incumbent. So it is with a bit of surprise, indeed disbelief and no shortage of cheer, that events may yet turn out even better than if Mr. Moussavi had won, political analysts said.
 ''The Arab leaders are watching and they are very pleased,'' Mr. Gad said. ''The Ahmadinejad after this election will be very different than the Ahmadinejad before this election. He will be weaker.''
 There is, analysts acknowledged, a potentially darker sequence of events that could emerge -- one where Mr. Ahmadinejad comes out of this crisis even less concerned about domestic opinion than before and more aggressive. Analysts said that could prove difficult for him, though, because of deep splits that the conflict has already caused among the political elite. 
 The Arab governments aligned with Washington are part of a camp that has promoted an Arab peace initiative with Israel. Iran, they have charged, has worked to undermine the peace process by financing Hamas and Hezbollah and by attacking those in the peace camp. Before the elections, Iran was increasingly flexing its geopolitical muscles, often in disputes with its much smaller Arab neighbors in the Persian Gulf region. A former Iranian speaker of Parliament, for example, said that Bahrain was historically part of Iran. 
 Now, Arab leaders are looking to regain the momentum and slow Iran's spreading power and influence, analysts said. They are also looking to use the crisis in Iran to undermine political Islam in general. The Arab world is ruled by authoritarian leaders, kings and emirs -- and its greatest challenge to legitimacy and control is political Islamic movements like the Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt and Jordan.
 ''Opponents of the Islamist movement go far in anticipating the collapse of the Islamic revolution and the end of the Islamist movements and their political project,'' said Mohammad Abu Rumman, research editor at the newspaper Al Ghad in Amman. ''Anticipating the failure of the revolution is an anticipation of the failure of political Islam in general.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Iran, a majority Persian and Shiite country, is distant from most Sunni Arabs, though it has influence in parts of Lebanon, above.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BILAL HUSSEIN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IRANIAN ELECTION PROTESTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); SOCIAL MEDIA (69%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (64%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (64%); HEZBOLLAH (62%); HAMAS (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (88%); ALI KHAMENEI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); CAIRO, EGYPT (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); LEBANON (92%); EGYPT (79%); JORDAN (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); SYRIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2009



688 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1041 words

HEADLINE: Obama Set for First, Tentative Step Today on Immigration Overhaul

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON and DAVID M. HERSZENHORN; Jeff Zeleny contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama is expected to meet with Congressional leaders of both parties on Thursday to begin laying the political groundwork for sweeping immigration legislation, even though its passage this year is considered very unlikely.
 With lawmakers already immersed in health care, financial regulation and energy policy, and with the Senate set to hold hearings soon on Judge Sonia Sotomayor's nomination to the Supreme Court, administration officials and many in Congress say it is improbable that they will be able to add anything as challenging as an immigration overhaul. 
 And the clock is not the only obstacle. While there is a consensus that the immigration system is broken, Republicans and Democrats, politically burned over the issue in the recent past, remain divided even within their own parties over how to fix it. 
 The unemployment rate is expected to stay high, making Democrats who are wavering on immigration reform leery of supporting it. And while polls show that Hispanic voters care deeply about changing the system -- many of them are related to or at least know someone who is living in this country illegally -- even they see it as a lower priority than the economy and health care.
 Then there is the question of whether it is Congress or the White House that will take the lead.
 Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts and a longtime proponent of expanded guest worker programs and legal status for the estimated 12 million illegal immigrants currently in the country, has been succeeded as chairman of the Senate Judiciary subcommittee on immigration by Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York. In that role, Mr. Schumer would take the point in pushing for passage of a new bill.
 But Republicans have refused to put their political capital at risk without some assurances that Mr. Obama will spend some of his own. Senator John Cornyn of Texas, the senior Republican on Mr. Schumer's subcommittee, said: ''So far what we have seen from the White House, frankly, is a lot of photo-ops and not a lot of rolling up your sleeves and doing the hard work. And this is an issue that is going to take a lot of hard work.''
 Aides to Mr. Obama say he does not intend to get out in front of any proposal until there is a strong bipartisan commitment to pass it. That stance has the potential to paralyze the process, since lawmakers are looking to him to use his bully pulpit, and high approval ratings, to help them fend off any political backlash among their constituents. 
 ''His position is very clear: he thinks we need comprehensive immigration reform,'' David Axelrod, a senior adviser to the president, said in an interview. ''But that's not something that's going to happen simply on his volition.'' 
 ''Obviously work needs to be done,'' Mr. Axelrod added, ''and not just from our end, but from the proponents in Congress, to bring it to the point where it can get passed.''
 How to move Congress to that point is likely to be the focus of Thursday's meeting at the White House, lawmakers and presidential aides say.
 In recent days, the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada, has said he believes there are enough votes to pass a comprehensive bill this year. And in a speech here Wednesday before the Migration Policy Institute, Mr. Schumer agreed, though he said the key to assuaging opponents was to show that any new immigration legislation would not only legalize the status of illegal immigrants already in the country but also include tough measures to prevent new waves from entering. 
 Public sentiment about the proposed immigration overhaul that failed in the Senate two years ago was that it ''was too soft on illegal immigrants,'' Mr. Schumer said, adding, ''Unless we can convince Americans we're going to be really tough, then this is not going to work.''
 If the outlook is unclear in the Senate, it is even more so in the House, where at least 40 Democrats represent conservative districts. Among them is Representative Heath Shuler of North Carolina, who says he supports enforcing current immigration laws at the border and in the workplace before considering comprehensive immigration reform. 
 ''Congress is spending hundreds of billions of dollars to create new jobs, which should go to legal U.S. workers,'' Mr. Shuler said. ''Americans have demanded that Congress do something about illegal immigration, and enforcing existing laws is a good first step.''
 White House officials do not rule out the possibility of an immigration overhaul before midterm Congressional campaigns are in full swing next year. Some officials, however, say passage will more likely come in 2011, when Mr. Obama hopes to tap his broad support among Hispanic voters as he begins his run for re-election.
 On the other hand, Robert Menendez of New Jersey, the only Hispanic among Senate Democrats, says it ought to be this year. ''I think it is one of those issues that if you don't pass this year, it slips several years away,'' Mr. Menendez said.
 In the five months since Mr. Obama took office, he has used his administrative authority to reverse several Bush administration policies widely criticized as doing little to stem illegal immigration while wreaking havoc on immigrant families already here.
 At the Migration Policy Institute meeting Wednesday, John T. Morton, assistant secretary of homeland security, talked about some of those changes, including new guidelines that make employers, rather than workers, the target of workplace raids, as well as expanded humanitarian-release rules to keep parents detained on immigration charges from being separated from small children.
 Immigration advocates say that administrative changes are not enough and that Hispanics, a crucial voting bloc, are holding Mr. Obama to his commitment to winning a comprehensive overhaul.
 Representative Jason Altmire, a Democrat whose district includes the economically hard-hit Pittsburgh suburbs, says his constituents are holding him to a different commitment. 
 ''By definition,'' Mr. Altmire said, ''illegal immigrants are people who broke the law to get here. So any effort to reward them with legal status and work permits would not be supported by the people who elected me.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama at the Esperanza National Hispanic Prayer Breakfast and Conference on Friday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); IMMIGRATION LAW (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); VOTERS & VOTING (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (73%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); SOTOMAYOR HEARINGS (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (68%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); CHARLES SCHUMER (78%); DAVID AXELROD (59%); TED KENNEDY (58%); RICK PERRY (58%); JOHN CORNYN (58%); SONIA SOTOMAYOR (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2009



689 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 978 words

HEADLINE: A Recession Summer Theme: Come On In, the Travel's Cheap

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
LAST summer, travel marketers scrambled to cope with consumer anxiety over fast-rising gasoline prices and airfares. 
 Ah, the good old days.
 The economy has worsened significantly since then, making it more difficult to persuade consumers to take vacation trips. As a result, airlines, hotels, resorts and destinations are intensifying attempts to appeal to frugal, worried would-be travelers.
 ''Anything is a hard sell in this environment right now,'' said Tony Cortizas, vice president for marketing in the Miami office of Sol Melia Hotels & Resorts. 
 So to stimulate bookings for its ME by Melia luxury resort hotel in Cancun, Mexico, Sol Melia is spending on public relations what it would otherwise have been devoted to advertising, promoting that ME Cancun was the setting for the 22nd season of ''The Real World,'' which began on MTV on Wednesday. 
 Guests can now book ''Suite ME,'' where the cast members of ''The Real World: Cancun'' lived, for $15,000 a night. The rooms will even have their own Web site (www.realworldsuite.com). 
 The goal is to ''creatively shine a light on your brand and put it in the forefront,'' Mr. Cortizas said, and the series will ''expose us to a major audience.''
 ''We couldn't have a better way to relaunch a property,'' he added, after travel to Mexico slackened because of swine flu.
 Another innovative media approach is being taken by the Cayman Islands Department of Tourism, which helped support the production of a 90-minute movie, ''Cayman Went,'' filmed on the island Cayman Brac. The movie was the brainchild of Chowder, a New York agency that specializes in branded entertainment.
 ''The power of film to market a destination, a product, a service, is so great,'' said Kim Ketchell, a partner and strategic director at Chowder who was the executive producer of ''Cayman Went'' with her Chowder colleague, Jim Ritterhoff. The movie played in theaters briefly this month in three cities -- Miami, New York and Tampa, Fla. -- selected because ''they're where Cayman Airways offers direct service,'' Mr. Ritterhoff said. A DVD release is planned for the fall, to encourage travel to the Cayman Islands before the busy winter season.
 Bob Garfield, the ad critic for the trade publication Advertising Age, panned ''Cayman Went'' as a marketing vehicle, in a review in this week's issue. ''Obviously, we're not thrilled,'' Mr. Ritterhoff said, ''but we're happy that he said it succeeded in not hitting you over the head'' with its commercial purpose.
 The subtler sell is a hallmark of several campaigns intended to stimulate summer travel. For instance, the Convention and Visitors Bureau in Panama City Beach, Fla., is starting an online campaign with the YouTube unit of Google. Users who upload video clips to YouTube may see ads inviting them to enter a video creation competition sponsored by Panama City Beach (realfuncontest.com), with $50,000 in cash and prizes.
 ''There's a lot of destinations that have had a tougher go of it than we have,'' said Dan Rowe, president and chief executive of the Panama City Beach bureau, ''but it's tough here.''
 ''Demand has not come up to meet an increase in supply'' of hotel and motel rooms, he added, ''so rates are suffering; there's deals to be had.'' The campaign for the video contest is from Jennifer Barbee Inc. in Austin, Tex.; it is part of a summer marketing initiative by Ypartnership in Orlando, Fla.
 A Web site specializing in travel deals, Travelocity, is also hoping to capitalize on the consumer mania for thrift with a campaign carrying the theme ''the summer of possibilities sale.'' There will be elements featuring the company's ''roaming gnome'' character in new media like Facebook and Twitter along with ads in traditional media.
 The message is that ''it's an extraordinary time,'' said Victoria Treyger, chief marketing officer at the San Francisco office of Travelocity, part of Sabre Holdings, because ''you pay basically one-half of 2008 prices, so get out there and travel.''
 ''The getaway sale,'' as the company called its campaigns in March and May, ''did extremely, extremely well,'' she added, so the idea is ''to keep the momentum going during the summer months.'' The online part of the campaign is by Click Here in Dallas and the rest is by McKinney in Durham, N.C.
 Sales and deals may be inelegant, but that does not bother executives at the Palm Beach County Convention and Visitors Bureau in Florida.
 ''The only thing we want is to drive traffic,'' said Bill Vervaeke, vice president for marketing and brand management at the bureau, ''and this drives traffic.'' His reference was to a campaign offering an extra night at 75 local hotels and resorts for $19.09 -- a reference to the county's founding in 1909 -- after a stay of two, three or four nights (depending on the property).
 A campaign for the promotion, created internally, carries the theme ''the deal of the century.'' It includes ''lots and lots of radio,'' Mr. Vervaeke said, because ''I can put this proposition into 30 words.''
 As summer travel increasingly seems to depend on whether the price is right, the Aloft Hotels brand -- introduced last summer by Starwood Hotels and Resorts Worldwide -- is supplementing a campaign concentrated on the Internet (explorealofthotels.com, created by Shift Control Media in Greenwich, Conn.) with blandishments like free breakfasts.
 ''Certainly we're running more promotions than we would have,'' said Brian McGuinness, senior vice president and global brand leader for specialty select brands at Starwood in White Plains, ''but we're fortunate to be in the right space at the right time'' -- rooms in the so-called select service segment of the lodging market, priced at $100 to $150 a night.
 ''That resonates with the current economic conditions,'' he added. ''We're aren't wizards; we happen to be lucky.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Testing an alternative to the usual media, the Cayman Islands Department of Tourism helped to make a 90-minute movie, ''Cayman Went,'' starring Mike Lombardi and Jeffrey DeMunn.
 As travel companies try to stimulate demand, Travelocity's gnome is popping up all over, even on Facebook. Visitors to Cancun can rent the hotel suite where a ''Real World'' season was set. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); TRAVEL TICKETS (90%); RESORTS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); AIRLINES (89%); AIR FARES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (78%); LEISURE TRAVEL (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (78%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (77%); HOTEL CHAINS (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); ISLANDS & REEFS (76%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (75%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); GASOLINE MARKETS (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); TOURISM (70%); H1N1 INFLUENZA (50%)

COMPANY: MELIA HOTELS INTERNATIONAL SA (57%)

TICKER: MEL (MCE) (57%); MEL (FRA) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (57%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (90%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (90%) CAYMAN ISLANDS (98%); MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2009



690 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 821 words

HEADLINE: The Love Party

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS

 BODY:
On behalf of the people of Illinois and New York, I'd like to thank South Carolina for giving us Mark (''I've been unfaithful to my wife'') Sanford. Finally, a governor who's weirder than Rod Blagojevich and less responsible than Eliot Spitzer. 
 Really, we're extremely relieved. 
 Sanford, as we all now know, went AWOL from his state last week, then re-emerged to admit that he had not been on the Appalachian Trail writing a book, as the chaotic explanations from his family and his staff had suggested, but in South America where he had gone to break up with his lover. ''I spent the last five days crying in Argentina,'' he said, completely ignoring all we have learned from Andrew Lloyd Webber.
 Sanford was widely regarded as a Republican presidential contender. Many of you may have forgotten this, but for a while in 2008 he was a serious candidate to be John McCain's running mate. (We now stop briefly to contemplate the possibility that there were even worse options than Sarah Palin.) Now, he's become the second GOP hopeful in a week to do a swan dive off the adultery cliff. Perhaps the party has been too strict about the no-girlfriends-while-running-for-president rule. If they don't drop it, pretty soon the youngest contender will be 75.
 Until Wednesday's unpleasantness, Sanford was chairman of the Republican Governors Association, otherwise known as the Association of Possible Presidential Contenders Plus Arnold. Over the past few years, he has tried to woo the party's base with antics like bringing two piglets into the Capitol to protest political pork and refusing to accept $700 million in federal stimulus money aimed at preventing massive layoffs of public school teachers.
 For a state with an unemployment rate above 12 percent, that ranks 39th in public school performance, that last caper might not seem all that entertaining. But it did draw the attention and affection of right-wing commentators, who nudged Sanford right up the potential-contender ladder.
 However, all that is in the past. Although his wife issued a statement holding out the possibility of reconciliation, the press conference made it clear that sexual indiscretion is less the big problem here than the fact that Mark Sanford is a complete loony. ''I won't begin in any particular spot,'' he said, rambling on about his ''love for the Appalachian Trail'' (where he didn't go) and his fondness for ''adventure trips'' (clearly a personal specialty).
 Then Sanford apologized to his wife, his sons, his friends, his staff, his in-laws, ''anybody who lives in South Carolina'' and people of faith ''across the nation.'' At this point, I had the terrible feeling that I was the only person in the entire country to whom Sanford was not conveying his personal regrets.
 The peculiar thing about the apologies was that Sanford seemed to be under the impression that his worst dereliction of duty involved womanizing. I think I speak for us all when I say that if a governor wants to fly off for a rendezvous with his mistress, the first rule should be: leave a phone number. If you must flee to a love nest, make sure it's one with an Internet connection.
 ''It was interesting how this thing has gone down,'' Sanford told the assembled reporters, launching, with occasional teary asides, into an extremely boring story about how he and the unnamed Argentine had been good friends and then he tried to help her keep her marriage together, and then they started e-mailing and yadda yadda yadda. (When the governor said ''I'll tell you more detail than you'll ever want'' it was actually easy to believe him.) The whole confessional began to sound like an episode of one of those Finding Love reality shows, when the Bachelorette demands to know if her 25 suitors are all there for the right reasons.
 There are some larger lessons here. I know you're relieved to hear that, since it is highly unlikely that anybody actually gives a fig about Mark Sanford. (Including, perhaps, his beleaguered staff, which spent the last week fending off calls from the lieutenant governor and diligently filing Sanford's daily Twitter.)
 First of all, we may want to consider the possibility that the governor's decision to reject the federal stimulus money was not a mighty stand against government spending but instead an early sign of total nuttiness. 
 Second, perhaps it is time to rethink the idea of constantly electing middle-aged heterosexual men to positions of high importance. 
 Third, although the governor-run-amok thing is worrisome, South Carolinians can take comfort in the fact their state gives its chief executive slightly less power than a game warden.
 Fourth, before this search for a presidential nominee goes any further, I'm thinking it's time for the Republicans to apologize for putting us through the Clinton impeachment. We seem to have pretty well established that sexual stone-throwing is a dangerous sport.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (88%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (75%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (72%); LAYOFFS (70%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (64%); PRESS CONFERENCES (60%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (50%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (50%)

PERSON: MARK SANFORD (79%); ELIOT SPITZER (58%); ROD BLAGOJEVICH (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); SARAH PALIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (90%) UNITED STATES (93%); ARGENTINA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2009



691 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ANTIQUES; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1121 words

HEADLINE: An Artist's Treasures

BYLINE: By EVE M. KAHN

 BODY:
A SMALL-TOWN CHURCH
 Sells All, Pews to Stones
 MIDDLETOWN, Conn. -- ''Isn't it just a lovely little church?'' Marguerite Cogliati asked, looking around Shiloh Christian Church, a white-shingled building finished in the late 1860s at the edge of downtown here. Meanwhile a builder was ripping out chestnut wainscoting, and buyers browsed through the chestnut pews, floral stained glass, pipe organ with ivory buttons, and hand-cut foundation stones. Ms. Cogliati, an owner of Antiques on the Green in Woodbury, Conn., started selling off Shiloh's components last weekend so that a Walgreens can replace the church (across the street from a CVS). 
 Salvaged chunks have found homes nearby. An Episcopal church bought the carved pulpit, and some windows will be used in Shiloh's new church, under construction a mile away. An organ restorer is hauling out the pedals and tubes, and the altar will become a bar in ''a Victorian home owned by a very eccentric tattoo artist,'' said Fred Cogliati, Ms. Cogliati's husband and business partner. 
 Predemolition church sell-offs have become something of a regional trend. In May a brick Victorian church in Fulton, N.Y., was dismantled, and pieces were auctioned off, to make room for a video store. Small-town churches, according to Ann-Isabel Friedman, director of the Sacred Sites Program at the New York Landmarks Conservancy, are proving susceptible to development even in slow economic times. ''Prominent locations with parking, that's what the chain stores gun for,'' she said.
 FRIDA KAHLO SUITCASES
 Frida Kahlo expressed masochistic love for her philandering husband, Diego Rivera, not only by incorporating his image into her self-portraits but also by obsessively monitoring his tastes in food.
 In her recipe books, which turned up a few years ago at a reclusive collector's home in Mexico City, Kahlo scribbled notes about which desserts and monkey brain dishes Rivera would eat ''with great gluttony,'' and how he would paw through tortillas on the table at Christmas and make them ''simply disgusting.'' She imagined a love potion that might tether him to her: concocted from wormseed twigs and ground-up toads, it would take effect after a ''serenade during a night of an eternal moon.''
 Carlos and Leticia Noyola, antiques dealers in San Miguel de Allende, Mexico, bought the Kahlo archive four years ago, along with suitcases and chipped lacquered boxes painted with Rivera and Kahlo's names. The trove also contains Kahlo's embroidered blouses, coral jewelry, lottery tickets, hotel receipts, taxidermied hummingbirds and a French medical textbook about amputation. ''I am only a circus spectacle,'' Kahlo wrote in the book's margins, probably soon after her gangrenous lower right leg was removed in 1953.
 The Noyolas have collaborated with Barbara Levine, a photography curator in San Miguel de Allende, on a book about the collection of more than 1,200 items, ''Finding Frida Kahlo: Diaries, Letters, Recipes, Notes, Sketches, Stuffed Birds, and Other Newly Discovered Keepsakes'' (written with Stephen Jaycox and due this fall from Princeton Architectural Press). It shows the clutter that the Noyolas acquired, although the couple now keep the artifacts in neat vitrines and binders at their store, La Buhardilla (the Attic).
 Ms. Levine set out to document how everything looked when she first stopped by La Buhardilla last year. ''I knew the material would become more formalized, sorted and classified, and this amazing landscape would not remain intact for very long,'' she said in a recent phone interview. ''I wanted people to experience the immediacy of the lifting of the lid, the looking into the case, the stories that shake loose as you unpack. It's a question we can all relate to: What material universe do we leave behind by accident? What would happen if a stranger opened the boxes we all keep under the bed, or in shoe boxes up in the closet?''
 The Noyolas bought the collection from a lawyer who lived behind double sets of gates. ''The house was like a bunker,'' protected by 200 dogs, and ''everything was dirty, dusty and full of fungus,'' the Noyolas explain in an interview with Ms. Levine in the book, adding that ''we wish him to remain nameless.'' The lawyer told the Noyolas that he purchased the artifacts in 1979 from a woodcarver who had been friends with the Riveras. (The dealers have since verified the story with scholars.) Kahlo bartered her pictures and trinkets for the craftsman's picture frames, and just before her death in 1954 she handed him papers marked, ''Personal Archive for my private life.''
 The Noyolas display the objects ''in a guarded and restrained area,'' they wrote in an e-mail message. ''Curators, investigators, dealers, collectors, etc.,'' can make appointments to browse but must be content with handling photocopies of the papers, not fragile originals. ''At the moment the collection is not for sale,'' they added. ''Its economic value has not been quantified.'' An institution or private collector could persuade them to part with it, but only if Kahlo's suitcases stay together: ''It would have to be sold in its entirety.''
 CERAMIC VESSEL TROVE
 Sidney Swidler, a retired architect in Bloomfield Hills, Mich., wants to keep his thousands of ceramic vessels out of storage. But his apartment's floor-to-ceiling glass shelves could not hold any more of his American and European pieces. Made by studio potters mostly between 1970 and 2000, they include Angela Verdon's ethereal china slashed with translucent stripes and Colin Pearson's rough stoneware with shaved curls that seem about to fall off.
 So on and off for a decade Mr. Swidler has been trying to find a museum that will accept his vessels while promising to keep many on view. The Crocker Art Museum in Sacramento, Calif., has met his conditions. Next year it will start showing his gift of 800 objects in 2,500 square feet of new galleries dedicated to ceramics.
 ''They've promised not to de-access for at least 50 years, and they're publishing a catalog of everything,'' Mr. Swidler said.
 He started collecting ceramics in 1984 while living in Boston. He wandered down Newbury Street during a ceramists' convention when galleries that did not normally handle clay had stocked their windows with handmade ceramics and found himself drawn to everything from Lucie Rie's striped cylinder vases to Chris Gustin's cartoony puffed teapots.
 ''I had to limit myself somehow, so I decided everything has to have at least a vessel form,'' even if it could not actually hold water, he said. ''There's been no straight sculpture, no wall plaques or tiles. The piece has to have started out as a pot, at first, in the potter's mind.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A trunk with Frida Kahlo's paintings and artifacts, purchased by antiques dealers in Mexico and the subject of a new book.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PRINCETON ARCHITECTURAL PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (87%); RETAILERS (78%); RELIGION (78%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); AUCTIONS (76%); ANTIQUE COLLECTING (75%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (75%); CHRISTMAS (72%); TRENDS (71%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (71%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (67%); TEXTBOOKS (62%); LOTTERIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (69%) MEXICO (93%); UNITED STATES (88%); FRANCE (54%)

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2009



692 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 265 words

HEADLINE: Art in Review

BYLINE: By KAREN ROSENBERG

 BODY:
KATRIN SIGURDARDOTTIR
 Eleven Rivington
 11 Rivington Street, 
 Lower East Side
 Through July 3
 Greenberg Van Doren
 730 Fifth Avenue, at 57th Street 
 Through Aug. 21
 In the past decade or so Iceland's art scene flourished along with its economy. Now that the bubble has burst, the country's young artists are in a sorting-out phase. (See Ragnar Kjartansson, at the Icelandic Pavilion of the Venice Biennial.)
 One of those artists, Katrin Sigurdardottir, is having her first solo New York gallery show. It takes place at two locations, with small sculptures uptown and a new installation on the Lower East Side. Taken together they suggest that the whimsical elements of her art have given way to a brooding seriousness.
 In the smaller and mostly older sculptures at Greenberg Van Doren, Ms. Sigurdardottir displays models of the Icelandic landscape in shipping crates and open-storage units. These works reflect loss, homesickness and the nomadic life of the contemporary artist, and perhaps a bit of cynicism about Iceland's natural resources. They are conceptually transparent and visually too cute.
 Ms. Sigurdardottir's installation downtown at Eleven Rivington feels more transitional. Architecture, not nature, is the focus, and the Alice in Wonderland quality of her earlier work has been replaced by a sense of foreboding. The room-size piece employs infinity mirrors and an arched gateway inspired by royal palace architecture, creating an atmosphere of isolation and compartmentalization. It makes you wonder what's next, for Ms. Sigurdardottir and for Iceland. KAREN ROSENBERG 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Katrin Sigurdardottir's ''Haul XX,'' made of resin and pigments, on display at the Greenberg Van Doren gallery.(PHOTOGRAPH BY GREENBERG VAN DOREN GALLERY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCULPTURE (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) ICELAND (94%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2009



693 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 389 words

HEADLINE: Saving City Opera

 BODY:
New York City is at least a two-opera town, a cultural capital that needs and deserves the creative tension between the edifice of grand opera and the productions of a more iconoclastic opera company. 
 Those roles were long played by the grand Metropolitan Opera and the nimbler New York City Opera, just across the plaza from the Met at Lincoln Center. But in recent years, under the leadership of Peter Gelb, the Met has been electrified, while the City Opera has seen its fortunes dwindle to the point where real questions are being raised about its survival.
 For the past few years, the story at the City Opera has been about anything but opera. Its search for a new home took up enormous amounts of energy. In the end the opera's managers decided to stay put and renovate its old home in the New York State Theater (now the David H. Koch Theater). As a result of those renovations, City Opera missed the entire 2008-9 season and will present only five operas this season.
 The opera's endowment has dwindled from $57 million in 2003 to $16 million now -- in part because of the financial crisis but also because of ''raiding'' to cover operating expenses. The board is now hoping for a cash infusion from the renovation budget to keep going until it can get back full time into the business of staging operas. Mr. Koch, the major donor for the renovation, told The Times recently that was ''out of the question.''
 The good news is that City Opera has a new general manager and artistic director, George Steel, who appears to have sound ideas and not a lot of attitude. The board's previous choice, Gerard Mortier of the Paris National Opera, resigned before he started, complaining that the $60 million operating budget he had expected had fallen to $36 million. Mr. Steel, who spent 11 years as head of the Miller Theater at Columbia University and three months as general director of the Dallas Opera, seems better prepared to guide the company through its necessary retrenchment. 
 We have always admired the City Opera's artistic brio. It's going to take a lot of business brio to keep going: a commitment to living within its limited means, a return to the spirit of its modest origins as the ''people's opera,'' and, especially, a clearer kind of thinking -- artistic and managerial -- than we've seen in recent years. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OPERA (91%); THEATER (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); ENDOWMENTS (71%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (68%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2009



694 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 777 words

HEADLINE: Italy Intercepts Billions in Fake Treasuries

BYLINE: By ELISABETTA POVOLEDO

 BODY:
Ever since two middle-aged men with Japanese passports were caught in Italy this month trying to smuggle a purported $134.5 billion in United States government bearer bonds into Switzerland, the Internet has been abuzz with theories.
 Was the Japanese government, or some other creditor nation, secretly trying to dump Treasury bonds to drive down the value of the dollar? Had the Italian mafia stolen the equivalent of 1 percent of the American gross domestic product, using the paper, which supposedly was instantly convertible into cash, to run a giant scam? 
 Adding spice was the whole Bond -- James Bond -- aspect of the tale. A crowded customs checkpoint near the Alps; two men traveling on a local train, professing that they had nothing to declare; and a false-bottom suitcase containing United States government bonds made out in stratospheric denominations. 
 In all, the Italian financial police and customs guards confiscated 249 paper bonds, each supposedly worth $500 million, and 10 bonds with a face value of $1 billion each.
 Too bad the bonds were fake.
 ''The whole thing is a total fraud,'' Stephen Meyerhardt, a spokesman for the Treasury Department, said Thursday. ''They don't look anything like real securities, which in any case were never issued in any of those denominations.''
 The highest denomination ever issued by the Treasury Department was $10,000, he said. The Italian financial police claimed some of the paper was ''Kennedy bonds'' from the 1930s, but no such bonds ever existed. And the total of Treasury bearer bonds still outstanding is a mere $105 million; the Treasury has been issuing bonds in electronic form since 1986.
 But none of this has stopped the rumor mill from grinding away. After reports of the seizure began to trickle out of Italy, the blogosphere sprang into action, the ponderings fueled by suspicions that the mainstream media was willfully ignoring the tale.
 The story took on greater life after Italian authorities -- who have refused to talk about the scandal -- declined to declare the bonds fakes until they were examined by Washington. After all, although the Guardia di Finanza suspected the bonds were false, if they were not, the Italian treasury stood to profit from a law that permits the government to pocket up to 40 percent of the total value of cash or securities smuggled into the country over the legal export limit, which is 10,000 euros.
 Repeated telephone calls to the prosecutors' office in Como, Italy, that is handling the investigation were not returned.
 Darrin Blackford, a spokesman for the United States Secret Service, which was contacted by the Italian financial police and the prosecutor's office to determine the ''legitimacy of the seized financial instruments,'' said that his agency had verified the bonds were ''fictitious instruments and were never issued by the United States government.''
 Col. Rodolfo Mecarelli, the provincial commander of the financial police in Como, said the investigations were focused on ''understanding who these men were and where they were from.''
 Or where they might have been going. ''Switzerland may not have been their final destination,'' he said in a recent interview. ''They could have taken a plane anywhere.''
 Also unknown are the whereabouts of the two men, who were released after being stopped in early June. Italian law does not call for the criminal arrest of persons found to be taking funds without permission to another country. It might have been another matter if the police had determined immediately that the bonds were false.
 ''The men were questioned, but not arrested,'' said Naoki Oyakawa, an official at the Japanese consulate in Milan, which contacted judicial officials in Como after reading about the seizure in the Italian papers.
 He said the two men had valid Japanese passports, but he would not elaborate further on their identities. ''We don't know where they are now,'' he said. ''We have had no contact with the two men. They have not asked us for our help.''
 What the bonds were for remains unclear. ''It's not the sort of thing that you can just go into a bank and convert,'' said Colonel Mecarelli. ''But they may have been useful to guarantee business deals among people who don't use cash.''
 Agencies that deal with financial crimes, including Europol, declined to comment while the Italian investigation was still under way.
 The Treasury Department says it is stumped, too.
 ''I can't speak to the motives of the person or persons who tried to do this,'' Mr. Meyerhardt said. ''I would guess that they were trying to find someone foolish enough to buy the securities for real money.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Some confiscated bonds had a face value of $500 million each, but only $105 million in Treasury bearer bonds is outstanding. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEN (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (90%); SMUGGLING (90%); BONDS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ORGANIZED CRIME (78%); US DOLLAR (76%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (75%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (74%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (72%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); SCANDALS (71%); EXPORT TRADE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALPS (58%) ITALY (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (92%); SWITZERLAND (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2009



695 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Escapes; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1230 words

HEADLINE: When the Grass Is Not Greener

BYLINE: By JOANNE KAUFMAN

 BODY:
RICHARD LAERMER had always thought of himself as a quintessential New Yorker. As evidence, he pointed to his birth in Jackson Heights, his long-time residency in Chelsea and his authorship of seven guidebooks about the city. 
 Even so, his business -- Mr. Laermer owns a public-relations firm and has written books on marketing -- often required that he spend time in Los Angeles. 
 He didn't much like Los Angeles, but he fell hard for the California desert town of La Quinta where, six years ago, he and his partner, Steve Bradley, bought a casita-style vacation home. ''It became a kind of drug,'' Mr. Laermer said. ''I'd get back to New York, walk into my apartment and say 'I don't want to be here.' '' 
 Finally came the realization that he didn't have to keep walking into that apartment. ''Most of my work is on the phone, so I've found myself living in La Quinta,'' he said. ''It was supposed to be the vacation home, and now it's the primary residence. I found calm here.'' 
 Still, after a point, Mr. Laermer found himself restless. Despite La Quinta's charm, it was scorching in the summer and a long journey home after those weeks when he had unavoidable business in Manhattan. 
 All of which helps explain why he and Mr. Bradley came to buy a vacation house -- a Colonial with a kitchen fireplace -- in Ridgefield, Conn. ''When we're in Connecticut relaxing we think to ourselves, the desert is such an albatross because it's 3,000 miles away,'' Mr. Laermer said. ''But then we get off the plane in California and we slap ourselves. We feel we've been unfaithful to La Quinta.''
 It's a familiar sensation for people who are fortunate to own more than one home. But it may be particularly keen for those who, like Mr. Laermer, give up their primary residence for their weekend or vacation getaway, certain that they had found everything they wanted in a home. And actually have it all the time, not just on weekends, not just in the summer. But then, they start to feel rather like the man who marries his mistress only to realizes he's created a vacancy in the position. 
 ''People who are used to going someplace else like to go someplace else,'' said Diane Saatchi, a senior vice president in the East Hampton office of the Corcoran Group who has had clients abandon their New York residences to move full time to their summer beach homes -- only to rethink things and buy a Manhattan pied-a-terre. ''For a lot of people, living in the vacation house doesn't turn out to be all they wanted it to be. It doesn't scratch all the itches.''
 Joanna Simon, a vice president of Fox Residential Group, recently sold a co-op to a couple who gave up their Sutton Place apartment a few years ago to move to their weekend house in Litchfield, Conn. ''Their kids had grown up and moved out, and they thought it would be wonderful to be country squires,'' Ms. Simon said. ''But it wasn't everything that they'd envisioned. Their choices were limited in terms of the cultural offerings, and they found the winters depressing. So they came back and bought a smaller apartment on Sutton Place. 
 ''People always have the idea that the grass is going to be greener somewhere else,'' she added. ''But then they find that the people in that other place aren't compatible or the weather isn't what they expected, that the fireplace needs to be cleaned or the bathroom could use a new coat of paint.'' 
 For most, the decision to jettison the primary residence is a gradual one. When, in 2000, Eileen and Larry Chimerine built a house at Lake Naomi, a resort community in the Poconos, they had no intention of selling their house in Radnor, Pa. Mr. Chimerine, an economist who is semiretired, had business that kept him in the Philadelphia area. 
 The property worked so well as a holiday gathering spot for the Chimerines, their children and grandchildren that in 2004 they built a larger house a few lots down. ''There's plenty of room for everybody, activities for the grandchildren, and golf is right there,'' he said.
 But what with the drawing power of the Poconos, the extended family had no desire to visit the house in Radnor. ''It evolved over a three- or four-year period,'' Mr. Chimerine said of the decision to sell their primary home and buy a condominium in nearby Bala Cynwyd. 
 Just as the weather in La Quinta was sometimes troubling for Mr. Laermer, so the Poconos weather was problematic for the Chimerines. Yes, it was 10 degrees cooler than anywhere else in the summer. It was also 10 degrees cooler than anywhere else in the winter. ''We realized we wanted a home in Florida as a vacation place in the winter,'' said Ms. Chimerine, referring to the couple's condo in Hyland Beach, just north of Boca Raton, which they bought in 2006. 
 Michelle Marie Heinemann hadn't planned on pulling up stakes in Manhattan and moving full time to the house in Wappingers Falls, N.Y., that she and her husband, Jon, a financier, bought nine years ago as a weekend retreat. ''We'd come up maybe twice a month at the beginning,'' Ms. Heinemann said. ''Then we started doing renovations. I had craftsmen doing paneling and murals. You feel closer to a house when you're doing all these projects.''
 The projects continued: an indoor pool, an outdoor pool, a skating rink, a bowling alley, a tennis court, a basketball court, a sculpture garden. ''And we started spending more time there,'' said Ms. Heinemann, an artist and socialite. For three or four years, the Hudson Valley was their full-time home.
 ''But when things become very familiar and rooted, change needs to occur,'' said Ms. Heinemann, who proved her point by visiting friends in Kennebunkport, Me., in the summer, then renting a house there. At the end of one August, ''my husband and I looked at each other and say 'Hell-o! Why don't we just buy a home here,'' she said of the decision to buy a Cape Cod-style house in Maine. 
 For some, it's the wish for some new scenery, for others, like the Chimerines and Mr. Laermer, it's the desire for a change in climate. Alan Lieberman and his wife, Diane, were also looking for a change in the cultural climate. 
 Residents of Bryn Mawr, Pa., ''we were snowbirds for 16 or 17 years,'' said Mr. Lieberman, a real estate investor and developer whose properties include the Catalina Hotel in Miami Beach. ''We had a vacation condo in North Miami Beach, and our stays kept getting longer and longer. Finally we said: 'We love Miami so much. Why go back?' 
 ''We loved the diversity. We loved the culture. We loved everything about it. Bryn Mawr was a very white-bread neighborhood. Miami was different languages, different foods, different ways of life,'' continued Mr. Lieberman, who subsequently traded up to a larger condo in nearby Aventura, Fla. 
 Still, he acknowledged, it was a struggle for his wife to abandon her Northern roots. Thus, the decision, more than 15 years ago, to rent a place in the Hamptons for the summer. Thus, the purchase of land at the end of that summer and the subsequent construction of a vacation house in Water Mill. ''When we get there at the beginning of May, people ask, 'How was your winter?' Mr. Lieberman said. ''And I say, 'This is my winter.' It's cold and damp. I go to the Gap and buy a pair of wool socks. 
 ''We have a real passion for the Hamptons,'' he added. ''But come Labor Day I can't wait to get back to Miami.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: July 1, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article in the Escapes pages on Friday about people who decide to live full time in their vacation home misspelled part of the name of the town in Florida north of Boca Raton where Eileen and Larry Chimerine bought a condo. It is Highland Beach, not Hyland Beach. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: RETREATS: Eileen and Larry Chimerine, left, with their daughter, Carrie, and two granddaughters in the Poconos. Above, Richard Laermer in Ridgefield, Conn.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LAURA PEDRICK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER CAPOZZIELLO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C30)
 FAMILY: The Chimerines' granddaughters, Molly, right, and Elizabeth. The Poconos house is the one they like to visit.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LAURA PEDRICK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C31) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC RELATIONS (72%); DESERTS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2009



696 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 394 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Jobless Claims Rise; G.D.P Revised Upward

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Labor Department said on Thursday that new jobless claims rose unexpectedly last week. And the number of people continuing to receive unemployment was higher than expected.
 The figures indicate that jobs remain scarce even as the economy shows some signs of recovering from the longest recession since World War II. 
 A revised reading on gross domestic product, the broadest measure of the nation's output, said the economy posted a 5.5 percent annualized decline from January through March. That was slightly better than the 5.7 percent estimate made a month ago. Economists generally think the economy is shrinking at a slower rate, about 2 percent, in the current quarter.
 During the quarter, businesses held larger stockpiles of goods than in previous quarters, and imports declined more sharply than previously estimated.
 Initial claims for jobless benefits rose last week by 15,000 to a seasonally adjusted 627,000. Economists had expected a drop to 600,000. Several states reported more claims than expected from teachers, cafeteria workers and other school employees, a Labor Department analyst said.
 The number of people who are continuing to receive unemployment insurance rose by 29,000, to 6.74 million, slightly above analysts' estimates of 6.7 million. The four-week average of claims, which smoothes out fluctuations, was largely unchanged, at 616,750.
 Most economists still expect the number of initial unemployment insurance claims, which reflects the level of layoffs, to decline slowly in coming months as the recession bottoms out.
 ''We still firmly believe that the underlying trends in claims is downwards, but it is slow and uneven,'' Ian Shepherdson, chief United States economist for High Frequency Economics, wrote in a client note.
 The number of people continuing to receive unemployment aid remains below the peak of 6.8 million reached on May 30. That means job losses are most likely slowing, economists said.
 Meanwhile, the rebound in consumer spending in the first quarter was slightly less vigorous than previously reported. Consumers increased their spending at a 1.4 percent rate, down from a 1.5 percent growth rate estimated last month.
 Still, that was the strongest showing in nearly two years and a huge improvement from the fourth quarter, when skittish consumers cut spending by the most in nearly three decades.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); RECESSION (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); LAYOFFS (78%); TRENDS (78%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); WORLD WAR II (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2009



697 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 533 words

HEADLINE: The House and Global Warming

 BODY:
American politicians, from both parties, insist that they want to combat global warming and reduce this country's dependence on fossil fuels. Members of the House will soon have a chance to show they mean it. Voters should watch carefully to see what they do. 
 The American Clean Energy and Security Act would, for the first time, put a price on carbon emissions. The bill has shortcomings. But we believe that it is an important beginning to the urgent task of averting the worst damage from climate change. Approval would show that the United States is ready to lead and would pressure other countries to follow. Rejection could mean more wasted years and more damage to the planet.
The outcome depends on perhaps 30 Democrats who fear higher energy costs for businesses and consumers, and a dozen or so Republican moderates who also worry about costs and who have been pressed by their leadership not to give President Obama a victory. 
 We urge all to examine several recent studies showing the costs of the legislation to be minimal. The non-partisan Congressional Budget Office projects average costs of $175 a year per American household by 2020 -- vastly lower than the $3,000-plus figure bandied about by Republican leaders. We also urge them to read the scientific analysis forecasting the catastrophic costs to the planet, this country's security and its economy if global warming is left unchecked. 
 The centerpiece of the legislation is a provision that aims to cut America's production of greenhouse gases by 17 percent by 2020 and 83 percent by midcentury -- the minimum reductions scientists say are necessary to avert the worst consequences of climate change.
 Its mechanism for doing so is a cap-and-trade system that would place a steadily declining ceiling on emissions while allowing emitters to trade permits, or allowances, to give them flexibility in meeting their targets. The point is to raise the cost of older, dirtier fuels while steering investments to cleaner ones.
 The two seasoned politicians behind this bill -- Henry Waxman of California and Ed Markey of Massachusetts -- have also insisted on provisions that would mandate more efficient buildings, require cleaner energy sources like wind power and provide subsidies for new technologies. They have tried hard to shield poor consumers from higher energy costs. The C.B.O. estimates that, with rebates, the bottom 20 percent would actually come out ahead. 
 They have bent over backwards -- too far backwards, according to some critics -- to ease the cost of compliance for polluters by giving them relatively inexpensive ways to satisfy their emissions quotas before they have to invest heavily in cleaner energy sources and new technologies. 
 The C.B.O. did not factor in the potential cost savings to consumers from other parts of the bill -- the energy efficiency provisions, for instance. Nor was it asked to quantify the costs of doing nothing.
 But we know the answer to that. By any measure -- drought, famine, coastal devastation -- the costs of inaction, of clinging to a broken energy policy, will dwarf the costs of acting now. It is this truth that the House must keep firmly in mind as it votes. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLOBAL WARMING (91%); POLITICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); WIND ENERGY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); SCIENCE NEWS (67%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (67%); BUDGETS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%)

PERSON: EDWARD J MARKEY (58%); HENRY WAXMAN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2009



698 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; DONGGAOCUN JOURNAL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 851 words

HEADLINE: From a Beijing Suburb, Vibrant Strings

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS; Xiyun Yang contributed reporting.

DATELINE: DONGGAOCUN, China 

 BODY:
Perhaps the only thing more aurally challenging than a roomful of novice violinists screeching their way through ''Mary Had a Little Lamb'' is a roomful of novice violinists screeching along on out-of-tune instruments.
 ''Stop,'' Chen Yiming shouted to her students, an enthusiastic bunch, ages 8 to 47. ''Can we please pay attention to our instruments and make sure they are tuned correctly?'' 
 After a short break for adjustments, the cacophony resumed. 
 Violin fever has hit this drab rural township with hundreds of residents, young and old, picking up the bow as Donggaocun tries to position itself as the string instrument capital of China. 
 Once known primarily for its abundant peach harvest, the town, about an hour's drive from downtown Beijing, has become one of the world's most prodigious manufacturers of inexpensive cellos, violas, violins and double basses. Last year the town's 9 factories and 150 small workshops made 250,000 instruments, most of them ending up in the hands of students in the United States, Britain and Germany. 
 The city fathers have taken to boasting that Donggaocun produces 30 percent of the world's string instruments, although another town in southeast China, Xiqiao, makes a similar, if slightly more credible, claim. 
 Feng Yuankai, of the China Musical Instrument Association, said that Xiqiao, in Jiangsu Province, is still the top producer, but that Donggaocun, which opened its first factory in 1988, is catching up. ''Even with the economic slowdown their output is growing very quickly,'' he said, adding that Donggaocun is responsible for less than 20 percent of China's violin market.
 A disputed ranking, or the recent slump in orders, is not about to dent Donggaocun's ambition of becoming China's violin mecca. Last month, officials began promoting the creation of a tourist attraction they are calling China's first ''string instrument experience center.'' When it opens this summer, Instrument City will include a museum of ''world-famous'' violins, a 500-seat concert hall, a musical fountain and what the vice mayor describes as a ''folklore village.''
 Then there was this spring's annual peach blossom festival, which featured a violin extravaganza with 1,000 fiddlers taking to the stage. Even if about half of the players -- those too green for public consumption -- were asked to refrain from actually playing, the concert was an auditory tour de force. 
 Since 2006 the local education department has trained 40 teachers to become violinists so that every school in Donggaocun and surrounding communities can offer music instruction. Violins not only have become a driver of economic development, but also have elevated the town's sense of itself, said Wang Junying, the department's chief propaganda officer. ''They have helped us become a more cultured and elegant place,'' Ms. Wang said.
 The workers at Beijing Hongsheng Yun Violin Instruments Company largely agree. Most of the factory's employees used to work in the same building, a paper plant that belched out noxious smoke. But in their effort to clean Beijing's air for the Summer Olympics last August, the authorities closed the plant and invested government money in violin production. Although 200 workers lost their job when the paper plant closed, the two dozen people who were hired back by the violin workshop earn nearly twice as much as they did before. 
 Among the workplace perks are free instruments for the children of employees. ''Violins have made us richer, and they have raised our artistic awareness,'' said Zhao Gangcai, who assembles violins six days a week and whose 13-year-old daughter recently started playing. ''Her classmates think it's cool, and now they want to learn, too.''
 Some of Donggaocun's most promising musicians end up in classes led by Ms. Chen, 28, a woman of inordinate patience who started playing the violin around the same time she began to talk. She rejects the reluctant and those with stubby fingers, although she does take a handful of adults whose zeal makes up for their lack of raw talent. 
 Few students match the eagerness of Song Wei, 47, a retired kindergarten teacher who gave up the accordion for the violin after her husband and uncle began making string instruments. She practices an hour or two each day, and several friends, also retirees, have also caught the violin bug, although they dare not play together. ''The noise would be unbearable,'' she said with a laugh. ''My only goal is to play a nice song when I hear it and to make myself happy.''
 Ms. Chen has loftier goals. She hopes to turn Donggaocun into a talent factory, although she cautioned that prodigies usually emerge from musically inclined families, which, she suggested, were in short supply in this largely rural township of 33,000. ''I want this place to produce world-class musicians,'' she said.
 In the meantime, she is working on her 1-year-old daughter. A few weeks ago, she gingerly placed a violin in the girl's hands, and the results were encouraging. ''She knows how to hold it now,'' Ms. Chen said. ''I'm taking that as a good sign.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Violin lessons in Donggaocun, about an hour's drive from downtown Beijing. The town manufactures string instruments.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DU BIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (94%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (92%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (91%); MUSIC (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); STONE FRUIT PRODUCTION (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (70%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (69%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (66%); FESTIVALS (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (62%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (91%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); JIANGSU, CHINA (57%); EAST CHINA (56%) CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (75%)

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2009



699 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 441 words

HEADLINE: India Undertakes Ambitious ID Card Plan

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

DATELINE: MUMBAI, India 

 BODY:
One of India's most successful technology entrepreneurs was tapped by the government on Thursday to lead an ambitious project to give every citizen an identification card within three years. 
 The entrepreneur, Nandan M. Nilekani, a founder and former chief executive of Infosys Technologies, will leave his post as a co-chairman of the board to take on the ID card project. In his new job, he will have the rank of a cabinet minister, giving him significant autonomy within the government. Mr. Nilekani's appointment is a coup for the government of Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, which has made a series of big promises about economic development and reform since it was re-elected in May to a second five-year term. While many Indian executives serve on public advisory boards and committees, few have joined the government and headed such big public projects.
 The appointment of someone with no political or a civil service background suggests that the government may be more willing and able than it has been in the past to tap the expertise of the country's successful business sector in executing difficult endeavors, many of which have languished under career politicians and bureaucrats.
 Policy makers see a national ID card as critical to improving the delivery of social services, subsidies and other government programs while also strengthening national security. The Indian government and outside observers have shown that the majority of aid earmarked for the poor does not reach them, and it is hard for the government to detect embezzlement and misuse of funds.
 If administered properly, experts say a universal ID card could help ensure that most of the billions India and other organizations spend on aid reaches the people for whom it was intended. Today, Indians use a variety of documents to prove their identities, like state-issued driver's licenses, ration cards used for food purchases at government-run stores and a tax identification card that is akin to the American Social Security card.
 Many people here have expected Mr. Nilekani, 54, to take on a public service role. Last year, he published a book, ''Imagining India: Ideas for the New Century,'' that dissected a range of political, economic and social issues confronting the country. He has not been involved in the day-to-day operation of Infosys since he stepped down as chief executive two years ago.
 Mr. Nilekani will join a government led by the same party, Congress, that carried out most of the socialist policies that he has criticized for stifling the country's growth and democracy in the early decades after India gained independence from the British.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Nandan M. Nilekani, a founder of Infosys Technologies, will lead the ID project.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NAMAS BHOJANI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES, 2008) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (91%); EXECUTIVES (89%); NATIONAL IDENTITY CARDS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (71%); SOCIAL SECURITY (69%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (69%); EMBEZZLEMENT (69%); NATIONAL SECURITY (66%); FOOD INDUSTRY (66%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (65%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (64%); DRIVERS LICENSES (50%)

COMPANY: INFOSYS LTD (84%)

TICKER: INFY (PAR) (84%); INFY (NYSE) (84%); INFY (NSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (84%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (84%)

PERSON: MANMOHAN SINGH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (58%) INDIA (96%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2009



700 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 409 words

HEADLINE: Hartmarx Wins Court's Approval for a Sale

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
The Hartmarx Corporation, the bankrupt suit maker, won court approval on Thursday to sell itself to the British private equity firm Emerisque Brands, Representative Phil Hare said.
 The sale to Emerisque and its partner, SKNL North America, was approved by Judge Bruce W. Black in Federal Bankruptcy Court in Chicago. Emerisque valued the deal earlier this month at $128.4 million. 
 At an auction this month, Hartmarx named Emerisque the so-called stalking-horse bidder. The sale includes the assumption of $33.5 million in debt, court papers show.
 Emerisque plans to keep many of Hartmarx's 4,000 workers, it said in a statement before the deal was approved. The private equity firm said it was the only company that planned to keep Hartmarx operating as a going concern.
 ''Today's approval of Emerisque's bid to buy Hart Schaffner Marx and the cooperation by Wells Fargo is good news for nearly 4,000 workers, their families and our economy,'' Mr. Hare, a Democratic Congressman from Illinois, said in a statement.
 Wells Fargo, Hartmarx's biggest creditor, had argued the suit maker should be liquidated because it defaulted on loans. Gov. Patrick Quinn of Illinois and lawmakers in Washington had urged the bank to support the deal and avoid liquidation, citing the bank's receipt of $25 billion in federal aid.
 Wells Fargo's Wachovia unit, acquired in December, is agent for itself and other lenders in the case. The group extended more than $100 million in financing to the company since it filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy in January. Hartmarx, the 120-year-old maker of Hickey Freeman and Hart Schaffner Marx brands, has made several suits for President Obama, including the one he wore at his inauguration. 
 Alexi Giannoulias, the Illinois state treasurer, threatened last month to take away Wells Fargo's management of the state's $8 billion portfolio if the bank did not support a sale of Hartmarx.
 Wells Fargo was also under pressure from unions and Barney Frank, the House Financial Services Committee chairman, not to close Hartmarx.
 Hartmarx and 50 subsidiaries sought Chapter 11 protection Jan. 23 amid a group of retail industry bankruptcies brought on by a tight credit market, rising unemployment and the recession. The company also blamed changing fashion trends.
 Hartmarx listed assets of $483 million and debt of $261 million as of Oct. 9. The company said it owed $113.5 million to banks that gave it bankruptcy financing.

CORRECTION-DATE: June 30, 2009

 CORRECTION:
A Bloomberg News article on Friday about a bankruptcy court's approval of the sale of the Hartmarx Corporation to the British private equity firm Emerisque Brands misstated the position of Wells Fargo, Hartmarx's biggest creditor, in the case. The bank had argued that Emerisque's original offer was too low to repay the loans Hartmarx had defaulted on; it did not argue for the company's liquidation.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Last month, a Hartmarx employee sewed the lining of a suit jacket at a factory in suburban Chicago. Hartmarx's buyer, Emerisque Brands, said it would keep many of its 4,000 employees.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SALLY RYAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); LIQUIDATIONS (90%); APPAREL MFG (90%); APPROVALS (90%); PRIVATE EQUITY (90%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); MAMMALS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); FASHION & APPAREL (73%); RECESSION (72%); TRENDS (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (67%)

COMPANY: HMX LLC (96%); WELLS FARGO & CO (95%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC2337 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' SUITS, SKIRTS, & COATS (96%); SIC2325 MEN'S & BOYS' SEPARATE TROUSERS & SLACKS (96%); SIC2311 MEN'S & BOYS' SUITS, COATS, & OVERCOATS (96%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%)

PERSON: PHIL HARE (88%); BARNEY FRANK (58%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); PAT QUINN (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2009



701 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1075 words

HEADLINE: Recession's Children

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

DATELINE: WEST CARROLLTON, Ohio 

 BODY:
In the tight-knit, middle-class communities surrounding Dayton, many members of the class of '09 knew exactly what they would do when they grew up. 
 They would get a good-paying job at the General Motors factory or at one of the Delphi auto parts plants, get married and start families. 
 But the deep recession and the downsizing of American manufacturing have bulldozed those plans, leaving many of these young people confused and rudderless, with some contemplating a path that might be new to their families: college. 
 ''It used to be kids would say, 'I don't need to go to college. I can go to work with my dad at G.M. and have a good life,' '' said Carol Romie, the chief guidance counselor at West Carrollton High School in this blue-collar Dayton suburb. ''With G.M. closed, that's not an option nowadays.'' 
 Brandon Abney, a newly minted high school graduate, would have loved to work at the G.M. truck plant in Moraine, a neighboring suburb, but it closed last December. 
 So he is enrolling in an 18-month college program to become a firefighter. ''After what happened at G.M., you have to go to college to find a job,'' he said. 
 Dezarae Austin, of the class of '09, moved in with a friend after her father lost his job at G.M. and left the state in search of employment. With the job market offering high school grads little beyond $7.50-an-hour fast-food and supermarket jobs, she is enrolling in community college to become a physician assistant.
 Nick Salyers would like to follow in the footsteps of his grandfather, whose 36-year career at a Delco auto parts plant (before it became Delphi) enabled him to buy a spacious house and raise five children. But with that factory closed and his mother and father laid off in recent plant closings, he has chosen a career in the military.
 ''I needed something secure,'' he said. ''No matter what happens, I'll always have a job in the Army. I don't have to worry about getting laid off. I don't have to experience what my parents experienced.''
 Call them Generation R -- Generation Recession -- the millions of teenagers and twenty-somethings struggling to carve out a future for themselves when the nation's economy is in its worst shape in decades. Many are settling for second choices or pursuing low-cost detours because the recession has wiped out hoped-for jobs. 
 Far beyond Dayton -- where the huge, shuttered G.M. plant not long ago employed 4,000 people -- millions of young Americans are facing the reality that manufacturing will no longer serve as a conveyor belt to the middle class.
 Dayton is a vortex of that economic and social change. The area's job total has fallen 12 percent since 2000, while about half of its factory jobs -- 38,000 out of 79,000 -- have disappeared this decade. Not only have large G.M. and Delphi plants closed, but NCR, long the city's corporate jewel, recently announced that it would move its headquarters to the Atlanta area.
 These are body blows to a can-do city long known for innovation. (Dayton was the Wright Brothers' hometown and a G.M. boomtown because of Charles Kettering, who invented the electric starter and founded Delco -- originally the Dayton Engineering Laboratories Company -- before G.M. acquired it.)
 ''In the '60s and '70s you could get a good job at Delco, NCR, Frigidaire, Inland, Dayton Press, the Standard Register, Chrysler,'' said David Hicks, Moraine's city manager. ''They came with good benefits and good pay.''
 Fred Gehron, the principal of West Carrollton High School, remembers what happened when he graduated from high school in 1966 and told his parents he wanted to go to college. ''I remember them rolling their eyes,'' he said. ''My father asked, 'Are you sure that's necessary? Why not get a job at the steel mill where your brother works?' '' 
 Rob Alsept, financial secretary for the G.M. union local here, says he took a job at the plant in 1989 at age 19, and bought a house and had a family the next year.
 The G.M. plant's basic wage was $28 an hour when it closed. ''For the laid-off guys, the highest-paying job I've heard anyone find was $13 an hour,'' Mr. Alsept said. 
 The brightest spot in Dayton's economy is Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, which planned to add 1,000 jobs, one-third of them requiring Ph.D.'s. 
 ''I would adamantly say the days of finding good-paying jobs that will support an individual or family with just a high-school education are gone,'' said Matt Massie, director of career services at Sinclair Community College in Dayton.
 Since the recession began, enrollment at Sinclair has jumped 14 percent, largely because many laid-off workers have returned to school and because the uninviting job market has pushed many high school grads into college.
 Adam Smith, who is studying linguistics at Sinclair, went for another reason: it's cheap. Mr. Smith, who hopes to become translator, could have gone to a four-year college, but knew he could save money by spending his first two years at Sinclair, where courses cost $43 a credit.
 To pay for his courses and car, he is busing tables 30 hours a week at a Smokey Bones, a barbecue restaurant. Because many students work such long hours, community college degrees often take them three years to attain.
 Thomas Kokenge, the guidance counselor for West Carrollton High's graduating seniors, advised them not to let the hard times change their goals. ''I tell them, 'Do something that you have a passion for,' '' he said. ''I don't see them lowering their horizons. But maybe they have to take a longer way to get there.'' 
 Guidance counselors say that the nearly 40 percent of Dayton-area graduates who attend four-year colleges should do fine once the economy rebounds. 
 Todd Salyers, who lost his job when the Delphi plant closed, is proud, but a bit worried that his son, Nick, is joining the Army. 
 Said Todd Salyers, ''My father always told us, 'As long as you put in an honest day's pay and are an honest person, you'd be O.K.' That's not even close to being right anymore.''
 Erik Newton, who just graduated from West Carrollton High, will be going to Sinclair to study firefighting with Brandon Abney. His mother, a laid-off G.M. worker, will also be there, studying to become a social worker. 
 In Mr. Newton's view, the dream of landing a good factory job has definitely not died. 
 ''I'm sure if any big factory had openings, there'd be a line all the way into Dayton,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Dezarae Austin, center, works as a waitress at a retirement home to save money for college.(pg. B1)
Erik Newton, a recent high school graduate, will attend community college to study firefighting. His mother will also be there, studying to become a social worker.
 Dezarae Austin, who works as a waitress, is enrolling in community college to become a physician assistant.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARK LYONS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (90%); PLANT CLOSINGS (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (88%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); CLOSINGS (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); DISMISSALS (77%); ADOLESCENTS (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (70%); PHYSICIANS ASSISTANTS (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAYTON, OH, USA (90%) OHIO, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2009



702 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Escapes; BREAKING GROUND; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 282 words

HEADLINE: Maine Lakefront Club

BYLINE: By NICK KAYE

 BODY:
WHAT Residence club.
 WHERE The Sebago Lakes region of Maine.
 AMENITIES Direct lake access and concierge service, among others.
 PRICES Residence shares are priced at $275,000.
 STATUS The first home was bought last month. 
 DEVELOPERS Perry and Melinda Williams, a couple who have long lived in the area. DCP International, a company based in Illinois that develops and markets residence clubs, is also involved.
 CONTACT (877) 635-2537 or www.mainelakefrontclub.com.
 DETAILS One effect of the economic downturn on the second-home market can be seen in the scope of new projects. For a time, sprawling megadevelopments were the norm, but these days developers are scaling back their plans. This project in the Sebago Lakes area just northwest of Portland, Me., is on the more modest side. It is planned as a collection of lakefront houses sold in one-eighth fractional shares, and the development will be made up of existing homes in the lakes area that would be renovated if needed. The first property is a four-bedroom, 4,500-square-foot log home on Little Sebago Lake that was built as a spec house and was nearly complete when the developers bought it. Like all homes that will be part of the club, it has a dock and more than 150 feet of waterfront. The shares grant owners at least three weeks a year, which can be used at any club property; the club will also be part of the Elite Alliance exchange program. Additional details of the first house include a whirlpool and an entertainment room with a pool table and a theater. Canoes, kayaks and bicycles will be available, and dogs will be allowed at all houses. A concierge will help with needs like boat rentals and baby-sitting. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAINE LAKEFRONT CLUB) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAKES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, ME, USA (58%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%); MAINE, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2009



703 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Escapes; AMERICAN JOURNEYS MAD RIVER VALLEY, VT.; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1515 words

HEADLINE: Ski Country Abounding in Off-Season Charms

BYLINE: By KATHRYN MATTHEWS

 BODY:
ON a recent late-spring afternoon, I found myself teetering knee-deep in the rushing waters of the Mad River in Warren, Vt. The water temperature hovered around 53 degrees, ideal for trout. But not so much for me: shivering in my tan waders despite four layers of clothing underneath, I crouched forward, aiming my fly upstream toward a rock.
 My right arm quivered with exhaustion from hours of false-casting, first on a meadow, then in the river. ''Let that line unfurl gently, gently,'' bellowed our guide, Jake Petrasch, from downstream, where my husband -- having mastered the technique and rhythm of casting -- was having a grand time.
 Though my fantasy of hauling a trophy trout back to Manhattan had quickly faded, I was no less captivated by the pristine beauty of the river and the surrounding valley. 
 Bordered by the Green Mountains to the west and Northfield Ridge to the east, the Mad River Valley, with a population of just over 6,000, is defined by this narrow 26-mile ribbon of a river --just several dozen feet across at its widest points -- that flows north from its headwaters in Granville, through the picturesque towns of Warren, Waitsfield, Fayston and Moretown, before emptying into the Winooski River.
 Well known as a winter skiing destination -- it is home to the sprawling Sugarbush resort and ''ski it if you can'' Mad River Glen -- the valley reveals itself in warmer weather, when history, culture and a hyperlocal food scene come to the fore.
 The aptly named Mad River can rise rapidly, especially during the spring runoff. Once used to power 19th-century mills and factories, the river now propels kayakers, canoeists and tubers. 
 Until the early 20th century, the Mad River Valley was predominantly agricultural, with heavily forested hills supporting lumber and maple syrup industries. Bypassed by the railroad, villages largely retained their independent, small-town character.
 The shift to a recreational, tourism-based economy began in 1949 with the opening of Mad River Glen in Fayston, then Sugarbush in Warren, in 1958. 
 Living in a community that offered an active outdoor life was a priority for Mr. Petrasch, 31, who owns Valley Anglers, a fly-fishing guiding service, and also works as a wilderness therapy program field manager, developing back-to-nature interventions for teenagers. ''Everyone here is active, regardless of their age,'' he said, ''from toddlers to 80-year-old skiers with whom I've shared chairlifts.''
 The town of Warren, a 19th-century lumber and grain milling center, oozes New England charm. Its covered bridge (built 1879-80), on the southern end of Main Street, is the starting point of an annual Fourth of July parade. The Mad River runs behind the Warren Store, a community gathering spot with an excellent from-scratch deli and bakery and a good wine selection. 
 Across the street, the elegantly resurrected Pitcher Inn -- the original 1850 structure burned to the ground in 1993 -- is a popular wedding location, and it was where my husband had booked two nights as an anniversary surprise. Each of the 11 rooms pays quirky tribute to a specific aspect of Vermont life, like a Trout Room with a fully stocked fly-tying desk, a canoe-ribbed ceiling and a fireplace built of local river stones. 
 The best way to enjoy the valley is on foot (or bicycle). The Fuller Hill Road loop, a seven-mile trek, offers jaw-dropping mountain and valley views. From Main Street, turn right on Brook Road, then take a second left on Dump Road, a climb that becomes Roxbury Mountain Road. We walked a piece before taking the second right onto Senor Road, then another right onto Fuller Hill Road back to the village.
 Our hike to Sunset Rock, near Warren, was shorter, a two-mile round trip. From the trailhead on Lincoln Gap Road, off Route 100, we followed the Long Trail, traversing fiddleheads and wildflowers and scrambling up moss-covered rocks. The designated rock, which draws locals and visitors at dusk -- afforded views of Lake Champlain and the Adirondacks.
 Afterward, we headed to Waitsfield, the valley's commercial hub, about 15 minutes north of Warren. One of its biggest summer events is the monthlong Vermont Festival of the Arts in August, with workshops, demonstrations and exhibitions by state artists.
 The General Wait House, the first frame structure built by the town's founder, Gen. Benjamin Wait, now houses the Mad River Valley Chamber of Commerce and Visitor Center. It is also a good place to start a self-guided walking tour of the village. The 28 sites span mid- to late-19th-century architectural styles, including the landmark Great Eddy Covered Bridge.
 Waitsfield was once 80 percent farmland. Today, there are just seven working farms and various smaller-scale organic food producers. But its agricultural past, transformed into an ardent local-food consciousness, lives on at the Saturday farmers' market on the Mad River Green and at restaurants, from vegetarian-friendly fare at the Big Picture Theater Cafe to a sophisticated seasonal menu at the Green Cup.
 Perhaps Waitsfield's best-known restaurant is American Flatbread, where two-hour waits for its wood-fired pizza with organic and local ingredients are legendary during peak season. But we managed to score a table by the famous hive-shaped wood-fired oven. ''We can't possibly finish that!'' we protested when our server set down a 18-inch pie studded with tender garlic shoots, arugula, olives and Vermont chevre. ''Oh, but you will!'' she said knowingly. (She was right.)
 Eager to explore more of the back roads, we rented bikes on our last day. We were staying at the Wilder Farm Inn bed-and-breakfast, run by Luke and Linda Iannuzzi. Mr. Iannuzzi, an avid mountain biker, sent us on a 14-mile route that started across the street at the Mad River Path. There were a few climbs, as Mr. Iannuzzi had warned, but I soldiered on. Passing through the Pine Brook Covered Bridge onto Common Road, we gaped at farmscapes framed by blue skies and the lush Green Mountains.
 Then came the payoff: a long downhill on East Warren Road. Accelerating, we whooped wildly. Our Mad River Valley moment was seconded by a shirtless 20-something, his Adirondack chair planted in front of stellar mountain views. Smiling as he looked up from his laptop computer, he whooped back and gave us a thumbs-up. 
 IF YOU GO
 The Mad River Valley Chamber of Commerce and Visitor Center (4061 Route 100, Waitsfield; 802-496-3409; www.madrivervalley.com) has advice and maps, including a self-guided Waitsfield walking tour.
 WHAT TO DO
 Valley Anglers (802-279-7246; www.valleyanglers.com) offers half- and full-day guided fly-fishing tours. Rates start at $180 per person, less for two or more. A state fishing license (from $15) is required.
 A guide to central Vermont hikes is at www.madrivervalley.com/vermont/activities.
 Clearwater Sports (4147 Main Street, Waitsfield; 802-496-2708; www.clearwatersports.com) rents bicycles as well as kayaks and canoes. The retail store also carries outdoor gear, apparel and equipment. 
 The Waitsfield Village Historic District Walking Tour is self-guided, with a map available at the valley's Chamber of Commerce, or online at www.cvregion.com/visit/walktour/waitwalk/index.html.
 Waitsfield Farmers Market on the Mad River Green in Waitsfield (www.waitsfieldfarmersmarket.com) is open Saturdays from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. mid-May to mid-October.
 WHERE TO EAT
 Warren Store (Main Street, Warren; 802-496-3864; www.warrenstore.com), has excellent baked goods, inexpensive sandwiches (vegetarian options available) and a good wine selection; ideal for breakfast, lunch and picnics to go. Open 8 a.m. to at least 6 p.m.
 American Flatbread at Lareau Farm (46 Lareau Road, off Route 100, Waitsfield; 802-496-8856; www.americanflatbread.com) has no shortage of devotees. Be prepared to wait; they do not accept reservations. Flatbreads start at $13. Open for dinner Friday and Saturday, 5 p.m. to 9:30 p.m.
 Green Cup (40 Bridge Street, Waitsfield; 802-496-4963; www.greencupvermont.com) features local and seasonal fare. Open for breakfast and lunch, 7 a.m. to 2 p.m. Friday through Tuesday; dinner only 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. Saturday through Monday. Closed Wednesday and Thursday.
 Big Picture Theater & Cafe (48 Carroll Road, off Route 100, Waitsfield; 802-496-8994; www.bigpicturetheater.info), with its funky interior and local food focus (also vegetarian- and vegan-friendly), is a popular brunch spot. Open daily, 7 a.m. to 10 p.m.
 WHERE TO STAY
 Pitcher Inn (275 Main Street, Warren; 802-496-6350; www.pitcherinn.com) has 11 rooms, which start at $425 per night, including breakfast, for two people, with promotional and package rates available. The dining room, which serves dinner, and Tracks, the downstairs lounge, are open 6 p.m. to 9:30 p.m. Wednesday through Monday. 
 Wilder Farm Inn Bed and Breakfast (1460 Route 100; 802-496-9935; www.wilderfarminn.com) has eight rooms, which start at $130 per night for two people (including breakfast) with discounts and package rates frequently available. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PASTORAL: The Mad River Valley of Vermont, above, has managed to retain much of its unspoiled character. Left, the American Flatbread restaurant, well known for its pizzas with local and organic ingredients
 below, the Warren Store, a local gathering place.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY CALEB KENNA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SKIING (91%); RESORTS (90%); BOATING & RAFTING (78%); SPORT FISHING (76%); MOUNTAINS (73%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (73%); SKIING FACILITIES (70%); MAPLE SUGAR FARMING (66%); LEISURE TRAVEL (65%); PARADES & MARCHES (60%); TOURISM (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (73%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2009



704 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 5263 words

HEADLINE: THE LISTINGS

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
ART
 Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art. 
 Museums
 AMERICAN FOLK ART MUSEUM: 'THE TREASURE OF ULYSSES DAVIS,' through Sept. 6. Ulysses Davis (1914-1990) was a Savannah, Ga., barber who whittled and carved wooden sculptures in his shop when business was slow. Organized by the High Museum of Art in Atlanta, this show is by far the largest presentation of Mr. Davis's sculpture to be seen outside Savannah and the first to reveal the full scope of his imagination. His best-known works, carvings of historical figures, take a backseat to hybrid beasts and hydra-headed figures. It makes clear that he wasn't just a patriotic folk artist, or an African-American artist affirming his heritage, or an inward-looking, visionary artist. He was all of these, which is to say that no single cliche of ''outsider'' art quite fits him. 45 West 53rd Street, Manhattan , (212) 265-1040, folkartmuseum.org. (Karen Rosenberg)20090625 
 ASIA SOCIETY: YANG FUDONG: 'SEVEN INTELLECTUALS IN A BAMBOO FOREST,' through Sept. 13. Presented in its five-hour entirety for the first time in a United States museum, Mr. Yang's hypnotic, five-part black-and-white movie, ''Seven Intellectuals in a Bamboo Forest,'' tracks the dreamlike meanderings of a group of fashion-model-pretty young people, from a breathtaking mountain summit to a busy city where the disjunctive imagery becomes increasingly surrealistic and comical. 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street , (212) 288-6400, asiasociety.org. (Ken Johnson)20090625
 BROOKLYN MUSEUM OF ART: 'LIGHT OF THE SUFIS: THE MYSTICAL ARTS OF ISLAM,' through Sept. 6. ''What's in your head - throw it away! What's in your hand - give it up! Whatever happens - don't turn away from it.'' That's how a 10th-century Persian spiritual master defined the Islamic devotional practice known as Sufism. Countless other definitions have been proposed since, almost as many as for Islam itself. And variety - paintings, ceramics, mosque lamps, books -- is what you find in this tiny, exquisite show in the Brooklyn Museum's newly reinstalled Islamic galleries. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park , (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Holland Cotter)20090625
 BROOKLYN MUSEUM: PATRICIA CRONIN: 'HARRIET HOSMER, LOST AND FOUND,' through Jan. 24. The contemporary New York artist Patricia Cronin channels the life and art of the 19th-century American sculptor Harriet Hosmer (1830-1908) in a show of watercolor depictions of Hosmer's works, both those that survived and those no longer traceable. Ms. Cronin has also published the watercolors -- including her ghost-images of missing works -- in a scholarly book that stands as a Hosmer catalogue raisonne. The result is a complex package: a total work of art that is a historical document of the careers of two artists and a homage by one woman to another. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park , (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Cotter)20090625
 BROOKLYN MUSEUM: 'REFLECTIONS ON THE ELECTRIC MIRROR: NEW FEMINIST VIDEO,' through Jan. 10. Q: What is feminist video? A: A good way to reduce overcrowding in museums. Unless, that is, you are referring to this entertaining exhibition of recent videos by nine artists featuring the creators themselves as performers. Works by Klara Liden, Kate Gilmore, Cathy Begien and the team of Harry Dodge and Stanya Kahn are variously funny, dark and poetic. Starring in antique-looking, silent-movie-style commercials, Shannon Plumb is a wonderfully agile physical comedian. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park , (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Johnson)20090625
 BROOKLYN MUSEUM: 'GUSTAVE CAILLEBOTTE: IMPRESSIONIST PAINTINGS FROM PARIS TO THE SEA,' through July 5. Thirty-some years ago, the museum had a big success with a Caillebotte retrospective that more or less introduced American audiences to an artist who was an Impressionist by association rather than by style or temperament. His three best-known pictures, ''The Floor Scrapers,'' ''The Pont de l'Europe'' and ''Paris Street, Rainy Day,'' all grand urban scenes from the late 1870s, are absent from this show, which is a more modest enterprise than a survey, with emphasis falling on less-focused late work. But Caillebotte was a painter as interesting for his weaknesses as for his strengths, and any exposure is valuable. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park , (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Cotter)20090625
 COOPER-HEWITT NATIONAL DESIGN MUSEUM: 'FASHIONING FELT,' through Sept. 7. Tribute is paid to the world's oldest textile (no loom required) in all its sturdy, cosseting, beautiful, shape-shifting, dye-friendly majesty. The show includes contemporary furnishings, garments, jewelry and room dividers, as well as two large installation works. The felt runs from raw to cooked -- that is, furry to gossamer -- and in some of the most intriguing instances it is mated with lacquer, plastic, LED lights, metal or coral beads, as well as silk, linen or cotton. There are episodes of frivolity. A few earlier works -- including a Mongolian runner and a saddle blanket -- reunite function and decoration and distort familiar motifs in wonderful ways. 2 East 91st Street , (212) 849-8400, cooperhewitt.org. (Roberta Smith)20090625
 FRICK COLLECTION: 'PORTRAITS, PASTELS, PRINTS: WHISTLER IN THE FRICK COLLECTION,' through Aug. 23. This summer's refurbishment of the Frick's East Gallery, where four full-length portraits by James Abbott McNeill Whistler (1834-1903) normally hang, has occasioned a small celebration of Whistler's art. The four portraits have been moved into the Oval Room, where they are joined by a seascape; etchings and pastels of Venice are on view in the Cabinet Room. Both displays reinforce a suspicion about Whistler: that despite his oft-professed regard for the abstract qualities of music -- all those ''symphonies,'' ''arrangements'' and ''nocturnes'' -- he had a rare talent for conveying specific places and personalities. 1 East 70th Street, at Fifth Avenue , (212) 288-0700, frick.org. (Rosenberg)20090625
 INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY: 'AVEDON FASHION: 1944-2000,' through Sept. 20. The first museum retrospective devoted to Richard Avedon's fashion photography exudes a contagious joie de vivre. With postwar Paris as a stage set, Avedon made fashion photography new by adding movement and then narrative to his images, along with ironic self-awareness and a buoyant exuberance. The best of his early images are as perfect as the best work of Jackson Pollock or Jasper Johns from this period and as profoundly representative of it. 1133 Sixth Avenue at 43rd Street , (212) 857-0000, www.icp.org. (Smith)20090625
 THE JEWISH MUSEUM: 'RECLAIMED: PAINTINGS FROM THE COLLECTION OF JACQUES GOUDSTIKKER,' through Aug. 2. This show of paintings returned to the family of Goudstikker, a prominent Dutch gallery owner who died while fleeing the Nazis, is many exhibitions in one. It's a portrait of an enormously successful art dealer who shaped tastes and markets between the wars. It's a marriage of Northern Baroque and Southern Renaissance painting. Most of all, it's an extraordinary, continuing tale of looting and restitution. At the center of all these stories is a small black notebook, used by Goudstikker to catalog his inventory of some 1,400 works and now on display, in actual and digitized form, at the Jewish Museum. Other highlights include a landscape by Salomon von Jacobsz Ruysdael and a portrait by Rembrandt's pupil Ferdinand Bol. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street , (212) 423-3200, thejewishmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)20090625
 THE JEWISH MUSEUM: 'THEY CALLED ME MAYER JULY: PAINTED MEMORIES OF A JEWISH CHILDHOOD IN POLAND BEFORE THE HOLOCAUST,' through Oct. 1. Introducing the reluctant painter and accidental memoirist Mayer Kirschenblatt, now 92, who has devoted the last two decades to documenting life between the wars in and around the provincial city of Opatow (Apt in Yiddish), Poland. Wrought with irresistible detail and folk-art dispatch, the paintings begin with his mother's kitchen and reflect an omnivorous curiosity about everyday everything, aided by an apparently photographic memory. Labels pick up where the paintings leave off; words and images combine in a marvel of a book accomplished in collaboration with the artist's daughter, a folklorist whose career choice was shaped by her father's stories. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, , (212) 423-3200, thejewishmuseum.org. (Smith)20090625
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'FRANCIS BACON: A CENTENARY RETROSPECTIVE,' through Aug. 16. This 66-work survey starts with the stagy existentialism of Bacon's early work (the semihuman fiends, screaming popes, flanks of beef) and proceeds to the effulgent colors, insistent rhythms and true anguish of his grand triptychs and portraits. It suggests that his greatest achievement was his ability to paint convincingly men having sex and sometimes making love. As his hero Picasso had done for men and women, Bacon turned sexual passion into a pictorial event, using paint on canvas with finesse and no small sense of drama, while operating under cover of modernism. For once, the male gaze turned emphatically selfward. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)20090625
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'LIVING LINE: SELECTED INDIAN DRAWINGS FROM THE SUBHASH KAPOOR GIFT,' through Sept. 7. This almost supernaturally beautiful exhibition presents 40 mostly small drawings by Indian miniaturists of the 17th, 18th and 19th centuries. Rendered with amazing skill, the subjects include bearded aristocrats and bejeweled women; hunting scenes; wild animals and mythic beasts fighting; and gods, goddesses and demons ascending and descending. The art of drawing does not get much better than this. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)20090625
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'TIBETAN ARMS AND ARMOR FROM THE PERMANENT COLLECTION,' through fall 2010. The paradox of militant Buddhism inspired the Metropolitan's fascinating 2006 exhibition ''Warriors of the Himalayas: Rediscovering the Arms and Armor of Tibet.'' Now Donald LaRocca, the museum's arms and armor curator, has created a follow-up installation of 35 objects from the Met's collection (including 5 acquired in 2007). This time the focus is on defense rather than offense: examples of horse and body armor, dating from the 15th through the 20th centuries, outnumber swords, guns and spears. Most of these objects have seen more ceremonial than military action. All of them equate supreme craftsmanship with defense of the body and Buddhist principles. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)20090625
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'THE PICTURES GENERATION, 1974-1984,' through Aug. 2. With this historical survey, the Met tackles a subject in American contemporary art -- namely, a critical and innovative body of media-influenced work produced between two major economic booms -- that has been begging for full-scale museum attention, and gives it the full old master treatment. Much of the art itself -- painting, drawing, sculpture, photography, video, installation, prints, music and books by 30 artists, most of them still active and caught young here -- continues to look good. There are things to quarrel with, from the sweeping ''generation'' concept to a surprising, un-Met-like factual error in the wall labels: the original ''Pictures'' show had five artists, not four; one, Philip Smith, has been deliberately excised here in the interest of writing a neater history. Still, the show is a big step into the pertinent present for this museum. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Cotter)20090625
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'ROXY PAINE ON THE ROOF: MAELSTROM,' through Oct. 25. An awesome spectacle awaits visitors to the museum's roof garden: a gnarly thicket of trees and branches extending 130 feet from one end of the open-air deck to the other and rising 29 feet overhead. It looks as if a tornado had ripped through Central Park and deposited its gleanings here -- except that it is all made of shiny metal pipe, as if all that wood had been transformed by someone with a stainless-steel Midas touch. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)20090625
 MUSEUM OF ARTS AND DESIGN : 'GORD PETERAN: FURNITURE MEETS ITS MAKER,' through Aug. 16. This Canadian furniture maker who is widely admired in craft creates what he calls ''furnitural'' sculpture. He is a consummate technician, and his play with elements of furniture is often amusing and sometimes conceptually provocative. ''Table Made of Wood'' (1999) wittily literalizes its title. It is a side table made by gluing together hundreds of wood scraps, adding up to what is as much a Cubist representation as a functional table. 2 Columbus Circle , (212) 299-7777, madmuseum.org. (Johnson)20090625
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'COMPASS IN HAND: SELECTIONS FROM THE JUDITH ROTHSCHILD FOUNDATION CONTEMPORARY DRAWINGS COLLECTION,' through Jan. 4. The Modern's largest gift of drawings -- a windfall of 2,500 works by 650 artists -- started out as a kind of stunt and matured without becoming a triumph. Initially a yearlong shopping binge in pursuit of a ''cross section'' of drawing at a certain moment, it also tried to fill decades-old gaps in the Modern's drawing collection, often with works by familiar names. These dominate the sampling of the gift: a lackluster exhibition of 354 works by 177 artists that emphasizes the Modern's ambivalence about moving beyond the Minimalism/Post-Minimalist canon, and its tendency to pick big or hot names over truly great drawings. The bottom line? Connoisseurship matters. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)20090625
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'AERNOUT MIK,' through July 27. Something is happening in this Dutch artist's videos, but you don't know what it is. Displayed on single flat screens or as multiple projections on custom-built walls in various locations at the museum, they seem to document chaotic, emotionally charged, newsworthy situations involving scores of people. As you watch, you keep hoping to discover what exactly is the cause of the commotion, but no clarification arrives. They are by turns mesmerizing, tantalizing and frustrating. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Johnson)20090625
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'WHAT WAS GOOD DESIGN? MOMA'S MESSAGE, 1944-1956,' through Nov. 30. With 102 objects and excellent labels, the Modern explores its role as arbiter of postwar American design, when, channeling the Bauhaus, it deemed good, affordable design a human right. Its campaign included exhibitions titled ''What is Good Design?,'' design competitions and use of the MoMA seal of approval by selected department stores. Signature items like the Eames storage unit and the Chemex coffee maker mingle with surprises like a back-to-basics chair of string and wood by, of all people, Alexey Brodovitch, Harper Bazaar's influential art director. The prevailing sense of beauty, restraint and economy is an implicit rebuke of today's inane material excesses. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)20090625
 THE NEW MUSEUM: 'THE GENERATIONAL: YOUNGER THAN JESUS,' through July 5. The latest local survey to challenge the pre-eminence of the Whitney Biennial is big, international in scope and age-specific. As the title implies, only artists 33 or younger were considered for inclusion. The result is a serious, carefully considered show, but one that with a few magnetic entries aside -- a video by Cyprien Galliard; an animation by Wojciech Bakowski; a madcap Ryan Trecartin installation -- feels sedate for a youthfest. Despite the global reach, it's oddly familiar, like a more-substantial-than-average weekend gallery hop in Chelsea and the Lower East Side, right down to token African and Asian imports. Still, there are many intriguing artists to look (and listen) for, among them the filmmakers Keren Cytter and Luke Fowler; the digital whiz-kid Mark Essen; and Guthrie Lonergan. There is also, as it happens, a much livelier survey to be found in an accompanying book called ''Younger Than Jesus: Artist Directory,'' which features nearly 500 artists who didn't make the final exhibition cut. 235 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side , (212) 219-1222, newmuseum.org. (Cotter)20090625
 NEW-YORK HISTORICAL SOCIETY: 'HARLEM, 1970-2009: PHOTOGRAPHS BY CAMILO JOSE VERGARA,' through July 12. From the time he arrived in the United States from Chile as a college student in 1965, the photographer Camilo Jose Vergara has been haunting, and haunted by, American cities. Some -- Chicago, Detroit, Los Angeles, New York -- he has revisited and rephotographed repeatedly in the past 40 years to record changes over time. The people and places of Harlem are the subject of this small show about alteration and continuation. A similar exhibition, ''Storefront Churches: Photographs by Camilo Jose Vergara,'' runs from June 20 to Nov. 29 at the National Building Museum in Washington. 170 Central Park West, at 77th Street , (212) 873-3400, nyhistory.org. (Cotter)20090625
 P.S. 1 CONTEMPORARY ART CENTER: 'LEANDRO ERLICH: SWIMMING POOL,' through Oct. 24. From P.S. 1's first-floor hallway you step onto a wooden deck that surrounds a small, fully equipped swimming pool. Glowing lights built into the aqua walls light up watery depths below the gently churning surface. A flight of stairs leads to a lower level and a magical surprise. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens , (718) 784-2084, ps1.org. (Johnson)20090625
 P.S. 1 CONTEMPORARY ART CENTER: 'JONATHAN HOROWITZ: AND/ OR,' through Sept. 14. Andy Warhol's grandchildren, numerous beyond count, have cashed in on his rich and radical legacy to see what further possibilities it might yield. Such is the case with the New York artist Jonathan Horowitz in this smart, crisply edited retrospective. The works evoke the media-saturated art of the 1970s, the neo-Conceptualist consumer art of the 1980s and the identity art of the 1990s, landing in a Never-Neverland era, in which analog is poised to turn to digital, and Doris Day and Paris Hilton have equal currency. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens , (718) 784-2084, ps1.org. (Cotter)20090625
 WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'SADIE BENNING: PLAY PAUSE,' through Sept. 20. A new stop-action animation by this former film prodigy uses an avalanche of simple, almost naive gouache drawings, sometimes tinted with color, to prowl the margins of urban society. The result is low-key with undercurrents: a picture of the everyday sublime riddled with suggestions of longing, otherness and the difficulties of connection. Solveig Nelson has provided its beautifully accurate (yet largely electronic) soundtrack of city sounds, whether a subway singer or squirrels rifling through a garbage can, people talking in a bar or gates being called in an airport. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Smith)20090625
 WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'CLAES OLDENBURG: EARLY SCULPTURE, DRAWINGS, AND HAPPENINGS FILMS' AND 'CLAES OLDENBURG AND COOSJE VAN BRUGGEN: THE MUSIC ROOM,' through Sept. 6. This pair of exhibitions lean heavily on the Whitney's sizable collection of Oldenburg and Oldenburg/Van Bruggen drawings, some of which were shown in 2002. But they also include newly restored, never-exhibited films of Mr. Oldenburg's Happenings and a major kinetic sculpture, ''Ice Bag -- Scale C'' (1971), brought back to life by conservators. A centralized gallery of early drawings and soft sculptures defines Mr. Oldenburg's epicurean branch of Pop, with works like ''Giant BLT (Bacon, Lettuce and Tomato Sandwich)'' and ''French Fries and Ketchup'' (both 1963), served up on low, platterlike pedestals. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Rosenberg)20090625
 Galleries: 57th Street
 JACK YOUNGERMAN: 'TRIADS/QUADRADS,' through July 26. Mr. Youngerman's new paintings have an exhilarating punch. In bright Playskool colors and with a direct, slightly brushy touch, he has been creating centered, hard-edged abstractions on star-, diamond-, three-leaf-clover- and oval-shaped plywood panels. They have a numinous vibe, like altar paintings for a pagan cult or heraldic emblems for a mystical knighthood. Washburn Gallery, 20 West 57th Street , (212) 397-6780, washburngallery.com. (Johnson)20090625
 Galleries: Chelsea
 MARK FLOOD: 'CHELSEA WHORES,' through July 10. Works by this Houston-based artist mock American culture and the contemporary art world. A found Exxon sign has the words ''Take Drugs'' crudely stenciled across the bottom. Paintings on cardboard bear messages like ''Another Painting'' or ''2 More Paintings.'' Having it both ways, Mr. Flood also produces almost beautiful, traditional canvases by applying paint over old lace and then pulling away the fabric, leaving intricate, multihued, all-over patterns. Zach Feuer Gallery, 530 West 24th Street , (212) 989-7700, zachfeuer.com. (Johnson)20090625
 CHARLES RAY, through July 10. More than 20 years ago Mr. Ray created a piece of kinetic sculpture that became famous, even though hardly anyone saw it: ''Ink Line'' (1987), a fine stream of black ink flowing from a little hole in the ceiling to another in the floor. It is here publicly exhibited for the first time, along with two other pieces from the '80s: ''Moving Wire,'' in which the ends of a length of wire snake in and out of fine holes drilled into the wall, and ''Spinning Spot,'' a circular section of the floor, 24 inches in diameter, spinning at 33 r.p.m. Matthew Marks Gallery, 523 West 24th Street , (212) 243-0200, matthewmarks.com. (Johnson)20090625
 Galleries: SoHo
 RUBEN OCHOA: 'COLLAPSED,' through July 24. The Los Angeles artist Ruben Ochoa has taken his city as his theme, suggesting how its freeway systems reinforce its class divisions by carving up social space. For his first New York show, Mr. Ochoa presents the whole scheme in a state of spectacular collapse, in a single monumental sculpture that looks like an immense upended highway divider half-buried in dirt, with a surprise hidden underneath. Peter Blum, 99 Wooster Street , (212) 343-0441, peterblumgallery.com. (Cotter)20090625
 UNICA ZURN: 'DARK SPRING,' through July 23. A fiction writer and poet, Zurn (1916-1970) suffered a series of mental breakdowns during the last decade of her life, and it was during that time that she produced most of the playfully improvised, sometimes hallucinatory nightmarish drawings in this fascinating show. Wandering, loopy lines enfold intricate patterns of dots, petals and serpentine stripes punctuated by eyes, faces, birds, fish, snakes and flowers. The Drawing Center, 35 Wooster Street , (212) 219-2166, drawingcenter.org. (Johnson)20090625
 Galleries: Other
 JOHN WOOD: 'ON THE EDGE OF CLEAR MEANING,' through July 18. Beginning in the 1950s, Mr. Wood made unique objects with combinations of drawing, collage, printmaking and early forms of photography (cyanotype, photogram, cliche-verre). This retrospective at the Grey Art Gallery (with additional work at the International Center of Photography) explores his long career as an artist and a teacher at Alfred University. Organized by Mr. Wood's former student Nathan Lyons, it includes more than 210 photographs, artist's books and works that fall under the catchall heading of mixed media, many of them as topical as they are technical. Grey Art Gallery, New York University, 100 Washington Square East, Greenwich Village , (212) 998-6780, nyu.edu/greyart. (Rosenberg)20090625
 Out of Town
 INSTITUTE OF CONTEMPORARY ART: 'SHEPARD FAIREY: SUPPLY AND DEMAND,' through Aug. 16. The surprise of the first museum retrospective for the creator of the Obama ''Hope'' poster is that almost everything he does, from abstracted images of Andre the Giant to his album covers for Led Zeppelin and other bands, is visually arresting. But in tracking his 20-year evolution from aesthetic anarchist to savvy, all-purpose designer and illustrator, the exhibition inadvertently casts doubt on his authenticity as a radical street artist. 100 Northern Avenue, Boston , (617) 478-3100, icaboston.org. (Johnson)20090625
 ZOE LEONARD, through Sept. 7. Always an exceptionally moving artist, though only sporadically visible, Zoe Leonard has an exhibition at Dia:Beacon, an hour and a half north of the city. It is different from some of her earlier shows: cooler and less intimate, documentary in form, broadly social in scope. At the same time, it shares a sensibility with what has come before, one attuned to realities of constant change, which as often as not means loss. Dia:Beacon, 3 Beekman Street, Beacon, N.Y. , (845) 440-0100, diaart.org. (Cotter)20090625
 NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AFRICAN ART, SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION: 'MAMI WATA: ARTS FOR WATER SPIRITS IN AFRICA AND ITS DIASPORAS,' through July 26. Mami Wata is Mother Water, Mother of Fish, goddess of oceans, rivers and pools, with sources in West and Central Africa and tributaries throughout the African Americas, from Bahia to Brooklyn. Usually shown as a half-woman, half-fish, she slips with ease between incompatible elements: water and air, tradition and modernity, this life and the next. Provider of riches, she is the natural bailout savior for our time, and this exhibition, organized by the Fowler Museum of Cultural History in Los Angeles, presents her in all her shape-shifting glory. The show's creator, Henry John Drewal, has compressed three decades of Mami watching into vivid visual form; the Washington curator, Christine Mullen Kreamer, has devised a fantastic subaqueous showcase for a powerhouse spiritual diva. 950 Independence Avenue SW, Washington, , (202) 633-4600, africa.si.edu. (Cotter)20090625
 Last Chance
 JOHN CHAMBERLAIN: 'EARLY YEARS'; closes on Saturday. This show of works dating from 1960 to 1987 prompts a question: Is there any sculpture from the 1960s that still looks as good as Mr. Chamberlain's? His assemblages of distressed autobody parts are almost classical. Hovering between the raw and the cooked, they are simultaneously compressed junk and elegant compositions of organic abstraction and orgasmic expression. L&M Arts, 45 East 78th Street , (212) 861-0020, lmgallery.com. (Johnson)20090625
 PATTY CHANG; closes on Saturday. The performance and video artist Patty Chang, born in California in 1972, has often focused on how a fantasy called Asia is invented and manipulated by the West and by Asia itself. The new video works at Mary Boone draw on particularly productive sources of cultural fiction, Hollywood and academia. The larger piece is about a real event, the meeting in Berlin in 1928 of the Chinese-American film actress Anna May Wong and the German critic and theoretician Walter Benjamin. The second is based on a clip from one of Wong's early films. Mary Boone Gallery, 745 Fifth Avenue, near 57th Street , (212) 752-2929, maryboonegallery.com. (Cotter)20090625
 JOHN KELLY: 'THE MIRROR STAGES: SELF-PORTRAITS 1979-2009'; closes on Saturday. The performance artist John Kelly is also, it turns out, a superb painter and draftsman, and his skills make this show of some 40 self-portraits a treat. In some of them, Mr. Kelly appears either as a pop cultural alter-ego (Maria Callas, Martha Graham, Joni Mitchell) or as an art historical superstar (Frida Kahlo, Egon Schiele, the Mona Lisa) done in-the-style-of style. As an added attraction, he will be performing his tribute to Ms. Mitchell, ''Paved Paradise Redux,'' this weekend at the Abrons Arts Center on the Lower East Side: (212) 598-0400. Alexander Gray, 526 West 26th Street, Suite 1019, Chelsea , (212) 399-2636, alexandergray.com. (Cotter)20090625
 NEUE GALERIE: 'BRUCKE: THE BIRTH OF EXPRESSIONISM IN DRESDEN AND BERLIN, 1905-1913;' closes on Monday. The original bad boys of 20th-century German art are featured in this visually aggressive show, specifically Erich Heckel, Karl Schmidt-Rottluff, Max Pechstein and their driven, putative leader, Ernst Ludwig Kirchner. Together they revived a rawness of feeling, form and execution that had been largely absent from European art since the Middle Ages, but they also unleashed a palpable Dada swagger before Dada. As their dreams had not yet been trammeled by World War I, theirs was still a fairly cheerful barbarism, based on the belief that they could retrieve what was good and natural in the world if they just took off their clothes, danced around a bit and made art. 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street , (212) 628-6200, neuegalerie.org. (Smith)20090625
 GIOVANNI BATTISTA PIRANESI; closes on Tuesday. A giant in the history of printmaking, Piranesi is best known for the ''Carceri,'' a series of etched and engraved architectural fantasies envisioning the mysterious, vaulted interiors of penal institutions. Four examples are included in this excellent show of about 55 prints from all phases of his career. David Tunick, 19 East 66th Street , (212) 570-0090, tunickart.com. (Johnson)20090625
 DIRK SKREBER; closes on Saturday. The startling centerpiece of this exhibition is a pair of real cars, each wrapped around a vertical steel pole. The ''sculptures'' were produced at an automobile-safety testing operation, where big machines hurled the cars against the poles at speeds over 40 miles per hour. Also on display is a series of large, oddly blurry pictures of beautiful women. They suggest a fading connection to the eternal feminine, while the smashed cars evoke a Faustian industrialism. Friedrich Petzel Gallery, 537 West 22nd Street, Chelsea , (212) 680-9467, petzel.com. (Johnson)20090625
 STUDIO MUSEUM IN HARLEM: 'KALUP LINZY: IF IT DON'T FIT;' closes on Sunday. Kalup Linzy's video work, in which the artist appears in drag and lends his overdubbed voice to almost all the characters, has a complex ancestry. A family tree would have to include the Wayans brothers, RuPaul, John Waters and Eddie Murphy on one branch, and the highbrow canon of dress-up artists, from Cindy Sherman to Yasumasa Morimura, on another. Mr. Linzy's first museum solo includes 22 videos made since 2002, with a total running time of about three hours. It includes his series ''Da Churen,'' his antic reimagining of the popular soap opera ''All My Children''; more recent episodes focus on the art world and feature Mr. Linzy's newest persona, Katonya the emerging artist. Studio Museum in Harlem, 144 West 125th Street , (212) 864-4500, studiomuseum.org. (Rosenberg)20090625
 'TAINTED LOVE'; closes on Sunday. This smart group exhibition, organized by Visual AIDS, is far more about the bonds of affection as it is about fear of disease. The curators, Steven Lam and Virginia Solomon, give about equal time to past and present, with works from 1989 and 2009 set side by side. The exhibition catalog is, like the show, free, a keeper and clearly made with love. La MaMa/La Galleria, 6 East First Street, East Village , (212) 505-2476, lamama.org. (Cotter)20090625
 'WE LIKE THE GOOD'; closes on Sunday. This funky, with-it gallery and performance space offered a fine solo appearance by the gifted young post-neo-Symbolist Micki Pellerano last month and has a pretty good group, organized by Kara Bohnenstiel and Melissa Rocha, on now. With flickery videos, robots, turntable sound art and walls on wheels, everything is kinetic, and the artists (Jim Sharpe, Patrick Resing, Danielle LeMaire, Scott Haggart and Ryan Lauderdale among them) are having good, clean, low-tech fun. A place to keep an eye on. Live With Animals Gallery, 210 Kent Avenue, Williamsburg, Brooklyn , (347) 526-3179, livewithanimals.com. (Cotter)20090625

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: 'Brucke: The Birth of Expressionism in Dresden and Berlin': ''Dancer With Raised Skirt,'' a 1909 woodcut on paper by Ernst Ludwig Kirchner, is among the works featured in this exhibition, closing on Monday at the Neue Galerie.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NEUE GALERIE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (96%); SCULPTURE (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); RELIGION (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (88%); VISUAL ARTISTS (79%); PAINTING (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); HISTORY (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); MOUNTAINS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%); SAVANNAH, GA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) GEORGIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (59%)

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2009



705 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: Human Nature Today

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
Has there ever been a time when there were so many different views of human nature floating around all at once? The economists have their view, in which rational people coolly chase incentives. Traditional Christians have their view, emphasizing original sin, grace and the pilgrim's progress in a fallen world. And then there are the evolutionary psychologists, who get the most media attention.
 For 99 percent of human history, they observe, our species lived in small hunter-gatherer bands. The people who survived developed certain mental modules, which have been passed down to us through our genes. Some of these traits serve us well in the modern age. Children have the capacity to learn language with astonishing speed. Some of these traits don't. Humans have an insatiable craving for fatty and sugary foods. 
 In 2000, Geoffrey Miller, a leading evolutionary psychologist, published a book called ''The Mating Mind,'' in which he argued that the process of sexual selection among early human groups hardwired many of the behaviors we see in humans today. Some of the traits are physical. Men generally prefer women with a 0.7 waist-to-hip ratio (that's a 24-inch waist and 36-inch hips, for those of you reading this at the gym). Women generally prefer men who are taller and slightly older.
 Some of these traits are more subtle. Men, Miller argues, tip better in restaurants, because they've been programmed to show how much surplus wealth they have. The average American adult knows 60,000 words, far more than we need. We have all those words because we like to mate with people who caress us with language.
 Now Miller has published another book, ''Spent,'' in which he takes evolutionary psychology to the mall. The basic argument is that each of us is born with our own individual level of six big traits: intelligence, openness to new things, conscientiousness, agreeableness, emotional stability and extraversion. These modules are built into humans and other animals (apparently squid can be shy).
 We are all narcissists, Miller asserts. We spend much of our lives trying to broadcast our excellence in these traits in order to attract mates. Even if we're not naturally smart or outgoing, we buy products and brands that give the impression we are. 
 According to Miller, driving an Acura, Infiniti, Subaru or Volkswagen is a sign of high intelligence. Driving a Cadillac, Chrysler, Ford or Hummer is a sign of low intelligence. Listening to Bjork is a sign of high intelligence, while listening to Lynyrd Skynyrd is a sign of low intelligence. Watching Quentin Tarantino movies is a sign of high openness. He theorizes that teenage girls may cut themselves as a way to demonstrate their ability to withstand infections.
 Evolutionary psychology has had a good run. But now there is growing pushback. Sharon Begley has a rollicking, if slightly overdrawn, takedown in the current Newsweek. And ''Spent'' is a sign that the theory is being used to try to explain more than it can bear. 
 The first problem is that far from being preprogrammed with a series of hardwired mental modules, as the E.P. types assert, our brains are fluid and plastic. We're learning that evolution can be a more rapid process than we thought. It doesn't take hundreds of thousands of years to produce genetic alterations. 
 Moreover, we've evolved to adapt to diverse environments. Different circumstances can selectively activate different genetic potentials. Individual behavior can vary wildly from one context to another. An arrogant bully on the playground may be meek in math class. People have kaleidoscopic thinking styles and use different cognitive strategies to solve the same sorts of problems. 
 Evolutionary psychology leaves the impression that human nature was carved a hundred thousand years ago, and then history sort of stopped. But human nature adapts to the continual flow of information--adjusting to the ancient information contained in genes and the current information contained in today's news in a continuous, idiosyncratic blend.
 The second problem is one evolutionary psychology shares with economics. It's too individualistic: individuals are born with certain traits, which they seek to maximize in the struggle for survival. 
 But individuals aren't formed before they enter society. Individuals are created by social interaction. Our identities are formed by the particular rhythms of maternal attunement, by the shared webs of ideas, symbols and actions that vibrate through us second by second. Shopping isn't merely a way to broadcast permanent, inborn traits. For some people, it's also an activity of trying things on in the never-ending process of creating and discovering who they are. 
 The allure of evolutionary psychology is that it organizes all behavior into one eternal theory, impervious to the serendipity of time and place. But there's no escaping context. That's worth remembering next time somebody tells you we are hardwired to do this or that.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PSYCHOLOGY (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); ANIMALS (76%); RELIGION (72%); RESTAURANTS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (57%)

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2009



706 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 266 words

HEADLINE: Fed Scaling Back Some Emergency Lending Programs

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve said Thursday that it would scale back some of its emergency lending programs, a first step toward unwinding its extraordinary effort to fight the financial crisis. 
 The central bank said it would trim the amount of lending through the Term Auction Facility, a loan program under which banks bid for short-term loans. It will also reduce its program for lending Treasury securities, and it will eliminate a special loan program created as a backstop for money market mutual funds.
 The announcement was a sign that the credit crisis, which began in August 2007 as investors panicked over defaults on subprime mortgages, is easing. 
 It also served as a signal from Fed officials that they are serious about rolling back their emergency efforts as soon as financial markets return to normal.
 The changes will have little practical effect since financial institutions had already scaled back their use of the programs being trimmed. 
 The Federal Reserve also announced that it was extending a number of other emergency programs, including its huge swap programs with foreign central banks and its new program to finance consumer and business lending.
 That consumer and business lending program, known as the Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility, or TALF, is currently scheduled to continue until the end of this year but can be extended if necessary. The program has financed about $27 billion worth of lending since its inception in March, but it was expanded this month to finance loans for commercial real estate, a large market where private credit is still hard to get.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); TERM ASSET BACKED SECURITIES LOAN FACILITY (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); AUCTIONS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); MUTUAL FUNDS (75%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (73%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (70%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (55%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2009



707 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1261 words

HEADLINE: Derivatives Tug of War Takes Shape

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and economics in his blog at nytimes.com/norris.

 BODY:
In the world of derivatives, profits for the dealers come from complexity and secrecy.
 As a new regulatory system for derivatives is shaped on Capitol Hill, the banks will try to preserve as much of both as they can. To the extent they succeed, it will be the customers, and the financial system, that are at risk.
 Already the banks seem to be winning one important battle, that of explaining why derivatives exist.
 In Congressional testimony this week, Mary Schapiro, the chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, and Gary Gensler, the chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, laid out the case for extensive regulation. But they also had kind words for the products. Derivatives, Ms. Schapiro said, ''allow parties to hedge and manage risk, which itself can promote capital formation.'' 
 For some derivatives, that is true. But the generalization is not always accurate, and there needs to be consideration as to whether some derivatives deserve to exist at all.
 ''Simply put,'' said Richard Bookstaber, one of the pioneers of financial engineering on Wall Street, ''derivatives are the weapon of choice for gaming the system.''
 Mr. Bookstaber wrote one of the best books about the causes of the financial crisis, ''A Demon of Our Own Design,'' and did so before the crisis erupted. This month, his testimony to a Senate subcommittee provided a stark lesson in the uses to which derivatives have been put.
 ''Derivatives,'' he testified, ''provide a means for obtaining a leveraged position without explicit financing or capital outlay and for taking risk off-balance sheet, where it is not as readily observed and monitored.'' They let institutions dodge taxes and accounting rules.
 ''Viewed in an uncharitable light,'' he added, ''derivatives and swaps can be thought of as vehicles for gambling; they are, after all, side bets on the market.'' 
 And they were side bets that could destabilize the markets. Had American International Group been gambling in regulated markets, it would have been required to put up collateral when prices began to go against it. Instead, it was able to ignore the problem until its own collapse -- and perhaps that of the financial system -- was imminent.
 Even when derivatives do allow financial risks to be transferred, that is not always a good thing. John Kay, a leading Scottish economist, noted recently that he used to teach -- along with most other economics professors -- that derivatives allowed risks to be transferred to those better able to bear them.
 But, he added, experience had shown that to be wrong. Now, he said, he teaches that derivatives allow risk to be shifted from those who understand it a little to those who do not understand it at all. That is not a bad description of how the risks of bad mortgage loans were transferred from those who made the loans to those who bought troubled collateralized debt obligations.
 We would be much better off as a society if that particular transfer of risk had been regulated, or even prevented. At a minimum, there should have been a lot more disclosure about just what was going on. 
 The Obama administration's outline for bringing the derivative markets under regulation addresses all the important issues. But the details, to be worked out in legislation and later in regulations, will be critical. Wall Street will try to keep as much of the market as possible from moving to exchanges, where prices would be transparent and those taking risks would have to put up collateral immediately when prices moved against them.
 Instead, the derivatives industry has already started a public relations campaign claiming that it is helping businesses, particularly small ones, hedge their risks by devising custom derivatives and not requiring the customers to post liquid assets when they begin to lose money. They argue that forcing companies to put up cash when they gamble would take money away from the companies' productive investments, and thus damage the economy. 
 It would also mean that those gambles could not destroy the companies making them. All too often, Wall Street has come up with complicated vehicles with little upfront costs but huge potential risks, and made lots of money on them from customers who are in no position to assess the fair value of the derivative or to bear the losses if the risks materialize.
 The Obama administration has embraced the principle that complicated, illiquid derivatives should require higher margins from customers. If there is to be effective regulation, it is critical that the administration prevail on that issue.
 It is also important that as much derivative trading as possible be pushed into standardized, exchange-traded contracts. The customers should be demanding that, simply because it would reduce their transaction costs, but many have been persuaded by the claim that customized products serve their needs better.
 And sometimes the customers like the complexity. It makes it easier to hide the risks and leverage they are taking, as well as the noneconomic objectives -- such as evading regulations -- that they may prefer not be noticed by authorities.
 Given the overlaps of the derivatives, commodities and securities markets, nearly everyone who has studied the issue thinks it would make sense to merge the S.E.C. and the C.F.T.C. But the agencies are overseen by differing Congressional committees that wish to retain their influence, and the campaign contributions that influence attracts. The administration evidently decided that was not a fight worth making.
 Instead, Ms. Schapiro and Mr. Gensler hammered out a general agreement on which agency should regulate which product. It's not perfect, but it could work, particularly if the regulators hire people, such as Mr. Bookstaber, who understand how the games are played.
 There could even be an advantage for the public in multiple regulators. Back in the Clinton administration, when Wall Street was persuading Congress to allow derivatives to escape nearly all oversight, the chairman of the C.F.T.C., Brooksley Born, sounded the warning about the risks of that course. She lost. Had she prevailed, the financial disaster might not have happened.
 In the future, it is at least possible that if one agency is effectively taken over by those it regulates, the other might be able to protest and get public attention.
 Despite the clear evidence that Warren Buffett was right when he called derivatives ''financial weapons of mass destruction,'' there has been little talk of giving regulators authority to ban some derivatives. 
 Perhaps, however, the Obama administration has that idea up its sleeve. Its white paper on financial regulation calls for authority to prevent ''market manipulation, fraud, and other market abuses.'' My efforts to find out just what is included in that last catch-all category were not successful.
 When the derivatives industry was persuading Washington to let it alone, one argument was that any American rules would just drive business overseas, hurting American competitiveness. That argument will be heard again, and makes it necessary that there be international regulatory cooperation. But the fact that some market allows something is not enough to prove everyone should allow it.
 For far too long, Wall Street was allowed to play as it wished. It is a major understatement to say that privilege was abused. The details of derivatives regulation adopted this year will go a long way to determining whether and when the next financial crisis will engulf the world.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); TESTIMONY (89%); RISK MANAGEMENT (89%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); ENGINEERING (74%); FUTURES (73%); ACCOUNTING (73%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (63%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (57%)

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (57%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (57%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (63%); 8685 (TSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (63%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (63%)

PERSON: MARY L SCHAPIRO (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2009



708 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 366 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths HARRIGAN, ARTHUR W.

 BODY:
HARRIGAN--Arthur W.,former Chief Financial Officer of the Western Electric Company and of International Paper Company, died on June 20, 2009, in Vero Beach, FL, at the age of 90. Mr. Harrigan graduated from NYU in 1942 while serving in the U.S. Navy, received his MBA from NYU in 1949 and, while employed at Western Electric, earned his Ph.D. in Economics from the Stern School of NYU in 1959. During World War II he first served in Naval Intelligence and, after attending Supply Officers School at Harvard, saw sea duty as an officer on a supply ship carrying landing craft in the Pacific. He recalled the "cheers of the crew when the last B-29 returned from its mission." In 1947 he joined Western Electric, where he served as Comptroller, then Financial Vice President and, then until 1972 as CFO and a board member. In 1972, he joined International Paper as its CFO and a member of the board. 
After he retired in 1982, he taught business management courses at the Stern School. He married Margaret Marrin in 1941. During most of their married life, Margaret, who earned her Masters Degree in Social Work from Columbia University, worked as a family counselor, and became a highly sought-after speaker on these subjects. They were a very close couple who excelled at combining family life with two careers long before this life pattern became common. They were happily married for fifty-three years until her death in 1994. Mr. Harrigan was an exceptionally thoughtful, kind and generous man who steadfastly maintained these qualities in his business life as well as in his private life. He was liked and admired by his colleagues and loved by his family. In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions may be made to The Arthur W. Harrigan Scholarship Fund, NYU Stern School of Business, 44 West 4th Street, Suite 10-160, New York, NY 10012. He is survived by his daughter, Patricia Nadosy, of New York City, by his son, Arthur W. Harrigan, of Seattle, WA, their spouses Peter Nadosy and Carol Wilder, and by four grandchildren, Meghan Magyar, Andrea and Lara Nadosy and Aaron Wilder. A Memorial Mass will be celebrated 10am, Thursday, July 23, 2009 at Holy Cross Catholic Church, Vero Beach, FL. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); EXECUTIVES (91%); NAVIES (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); PAPER MFG (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); WORLD WAR II (77%); FAMILY (76%); MARRIAGE (72%); GRANDCHILDREN (71%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (71%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (65%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (64%)

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL PAPER CO (92%)

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (58%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%)

TICKER: IP (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325194 CYCLIC CRUDE, INTERMEDIATE, & GUM & WOOD CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS322110 PULP MILLS (92%); NAICS113110 TIMBER TRACT OPERATIONS (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2009



709 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 336 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths HARRIGAN, ARTHUR W.

 BODY:
HARRIGAN--Arthur W.,former Chief Financial Officer of the Western Electric Company and of International Paper Company, died on June 20, 2009, in Vero Beach, Florida, at the age of 90. Mr. Harrigan graduated from NYU in 1942 while serving in the US Navy, received his MBA from NYU in 1949 and, while employed at Western Electric, earned his PhD in Economics from the Stern School of NYU in 1959. During World War II he first served in Naval Intelligence and, after attending Supply Officers School at Harvard, saw sea duty as an officer on a supply ship carrying landing craft in the Pacific. He recalled the "cheers of the crew when the last B-29 returned from its mission." In 1947 he joined Western Electric, where he served as Comptroller, then Financial VP and, then until 1972 as CFO and a board member. In 1972, he joined International Paper as its CFO and a member of the board. 
After he retired in 1982, he taught business management courses at the Stern School. He married Margaret Marrin in 1941. During most of their married life, Margaret, who earned her Masters Degree in Social Work from Columbia University, worked as a family counselor, and became a highly sought-after speaker on these subjects. They were a very close couple who excelled at combining family life with two careers long before this life pattern became common. They were happily married for fifty-three years until her death in 1994. Mr. Harrigan was an exceptionally thoughtful, kind and generous man who steadfastly maintained these qualities in his business life as well as in his private life. He was liked and admired by his colleagues and loved by his family. He is survived by his daughter, Patricia Nadosy, of New York City, by his son, Arthur W. Harrigan, of Seattle, Washington, their spouses Peter Nadosy and Carol Wilder, and by four grandchildren, Meghan Magyar, Andrea and Lara Nadosy and Aaron Wilder. A Memorial Mass will be celebrated 10:00 a.m., Thursday, July 23, 2009 at Holy Cross Catholic Church, Vero Beach, FL 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); EXECUTIVES (91%); NAVIES (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (82%); PAPER MFG (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); WORLD WAR II (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); FAMILY (76%); MARRIAGE (72%); GRANDCHILDREN (71%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (66%)

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL PAPER CO (92%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%)

TICKER: IP (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325194 CYCLIC CRUDE, INTERMEDIATE, & GUM & WOOD CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS322110 PULP MILLS (92%); NAICS113110 TIMBER TRACT OPERATIONS (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (76%) FLORIDA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2009



710 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1175 words

HEADLINE: In India, Central Banker Played It Safe

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

DATELINE: MUMBAI 

 BODY:
The financial crisis has tarred the reputation and ideology of free marketers and central bankers the world over, including Alan Greenspan, the former chairman of the Federal Reserve. But it has had the opposite effect on Yaga Venugopal Reddy, the former governor of the Reserve Bank of India. 
 While other central bankers are defending and apologizing for how they managed the financial system during good times, here in India, big banks have not sought succor from the government, and the economy is still growing, albeit less rapidly. And Mr. Reddy, with the conservatism he represents, is taking a victory lap. He is widely sought after on the global speaking circuit and sits on the United Nations panel that has proposed fixes for the global financial order. Newspapers here celebrated the recent publication of a book of his speeches, ''India and the Global Financial Crisis: Managing Money and Finance,'' with fawning coverage.
 ''If America had a central bank chief like Y. V. Reddy, the U.S. economy would not have been such a mess,'' Joseph E. Stiglitz, the economist and Nobel laureate, has said. 
 Still, Mr. Reddy's approach is not without controversy. 
 Some economists assert that under him the Reserve Bank of India blocked critical reforms -- including opening the domestic bond market to foreign investors, allowing banks and businesses to trade more freely in currency markets and letting Indian institutions invest freely overseas. 
 ''In the interest of safety, the R.B.I. under Reddy was too skeptical of industry-led innovation and too partial to officially led innovation, because that is the way things have been done around here,'' said Suman K. Bery, an economist who was on a government-appointed committee that advocated more aggressive changes. 
 He said Mr. Reddy and the bank deserved praise for their response to excesses in markets like housing, but that their opposition to easing regulations of the financial system hurt the country.
 ''Where I do give them credit is they certainly were not in the Greenspan camp that said markets are self regulating,'' said Mr. Bery, who is now the director general of the National Council of Applied Economic Research in New Delhi. ''They were not afraid to call a bubble when they saw one in urban land.''
 Mr. Reddy and his defenders respond that the central bank did a lot to advance financial reforms but resisted changes that could make India more vulnerable to crises.
 And many Indian bankers who once chafed under the Reserve Bank of India's restrictions today sing his praises, saying, in effect, that he saved them from themselves. Most Indian banks are doing reasonably well even though real estate and stock prices have fallen. Analysts estimate the economy will grow 5 to 7 percent this year.
 But some often younger and more Western-oriented economists and policy makers assert that India needs to move forcefully to free the economy from government control, which they say would expedite growth. 
 They advocate lifting restrictions on bank lending and allowing the rupee to float freely against other currencies, for instance, arguing that such moves would make the Indian economy more efficient and force banks to be more responsive to the needs of the people, especially the poor.
 The contrasting views highlight a larger debate about how fast India should move on the path of liberalization it embarked on in the early 1990s. Mr. Reddy, who helped shape that path as a senior official in the finance ministry, and much of India's political establishment favor a moderate pace, placing a high value on stability. 
 Of course, India is not alone in struggling with such questions. 
 Many lawmakers in Washington are wary of giving the Fed too much power. Some policy makers blame it for setting the stage for the current crisis by not adequately supervising banks and by keeping money too cheap for too long, allowing bubbles to form in assets like real estate and stocks. 
 In Europe, leaders in Britain and the Continent are offering competing visions about who should regulate finance and how.
 Mr. Reddy is lauded for, among other things, restricting bank lending to real estate developers, increasing the amount of money banks must set aside as reserves, and blocking the use of some derivatives. 
 Many analysts say that the tight leash he kept on banks, which once earned him the enmity of bankers and corporations, protected the banking system and the broader economy from the excesses that have ravaged the United States and Europe.
 ''He was a central banker from the old school of central banking,'' said Tushar Poddar, an economist at Goldman Sachs in Mumbai. ''He will come out in history, in my view, as more positive than negative.''
 During a recent interview over a breakfast of omelets and semolina porridge, Mr. Reddy, 67, said he had a ''vague discomfort'' with the notion that markets are always right.
 Given that most Indians still live hand-to-mouth, he said, proposals to give freer rein to investors and banks to do as they see fit could backfire as they did in Southeast Asia in 1997 when the collapse of a credit bubble and a run on the Thai baht led to economic calamity in the region.
 ''We cannot afford to take the kind of risk that other countries can, because of our large population,'' he said. ''As a smaller emerging market economy, I might not be able to get the type of money that is required to get over a crisis.''
 Now retired and living in the southern city of Hyderabad, which is geographically and culturally distant from the power centers of New Delhi and Mumbai, Mr. Reddy has no official role in Indian policy making. But he and his views are respected and shared by many political leaders, bankers and economists here.
 He dismisses the calls for greater financial reform, which come from economists and some in the government. To be successful in India, he said, regulators must tailor proposals to fit the ''time and context'' in which they are working.
 Given the crisis and the lively debate about how finance should be regulated, Mr. Reddy said India should think anew about how it should reform and at what pace. ''We can't rush in,'' he said, adding, ''We have to learn from the rest of the world.''
 Right now, he says the government must focus on its fiscal health, invest in infrastructure and improve education, health care and governance. Until India addresses those issues, he said, further financial reforms will not be effective and, in fact, could make it more vulnerable to crises. 
 Mr. Reddy's critics say they too want investment in all those areas, but that the wait for those improvements should not hold up needed changes in the financial sector.
 ''It's an excuse for not moving,'' said Ila Patnaik, a senior fellow at the National Institute of Public Finance and Policy, said about Mr. Reddy's emphasis on other deficiencies. They ''haven't thought through financial sector reforms,'' Ms. Patnaik said. ''It would have been a very challenging task to do reforms.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Yaga Venugopal Reddy, the former governor of the Reserve Bank of India, has received credit for generally strong banks and economic growth.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PUNIT PARANJPE/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENTRAL BANKS (95%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (74%); AWARDS & PRIZES (74%); CONSERVATISM (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); LAND USE PLANNING (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); CURRENCIES (67%); NOBEL PRIZES (66%); BONDS (65%); BOND MARKETS (65%)

COMPANY: RESERVE BANK OF INDIA (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (58%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (58%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (79%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2009



711 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 974 words

HEADLINE: German Deaths Push Afghan War to the Fore for Chancellor

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS KULISH

DATELINE: BERLIN 

 BODY:
As Chancellor Angela Merkel prepared to depart for her meeting in Washington with President Obama, the deaths of three German soldiers in Afghanistan thrust Berlin's role in the escalating conflict onto front pages nationwide and back to the forefront of political discourse here.
 Afghanistan is not likely to top the agenda when Mrs. Merkel and Mr. Obama meet at the White House on Friday. Advisers said Wednesday in Berlin that the talks would focus on the environment, the crisis in Iran and the global economy, among a host of other issues. 
 But the Afghanistan mission, and disappointment in Washington over allies' unwillingness to shoulder more of the burden, is central to the future of the NATO military alliance, the institution that more than any other binds Europe and the United States. And it is likely to dog Mrs. Merkel as she leads her Christian Democratic Union into parliamentary elections in September.
 On Tuesday, during a skirmish with insurgents, a German armored personnel carrier flipped over into a water-filled ditch. Four of the seven soldiers inside managed to escape, but with rescue efforts impeded by heavy fire, three men in their early 20s died.
 The Germans have long been criticized by NATO allies for limiting their troop deployment in Afghanistan and in particular for not sending more soldiers to the southern part of the country where the heaviest fighting has taken place. But now German units are reporting that the fight is coming to them, with better organized attacks on their personnel and much fiercer clashes in their own areas of operation.
 Including the latest fatalities, 35 German soldiers have been killed in Afghanistan, and 3,770 remain stationed there. Just last week the German cabinet agreed to expand the force by up to 300, as part of a deployment of surveillance aircraft, despite the unpopularity of the mission with the German public.
 But if the military action heats up, and bodies continue to arrive back in Germany, the pressure to cut down on the deployment will become intense, many experts say.
 ''If things get rough in Afghanistan, and I can't believe they won't, you're going to see real questioning about Germany, what kind of ally they are,'' said Robert E. Hunter, a senior adviser at the RAND Corporation and an ambassador to NATO under President Bill Clinton. Yet Mr. Hunter added that, given Germany's pacifist reaction to its Nazi past, the country's armed presence in Afghanistan represented progress, if not enough to satisfy critics.
 ''They have, one step at a time, been getting their feet wet more,'' Mr. Hunter said.
 The deep unease over military engagement can be seen in the political bickering that has broken out in recent days here over whether to use the word ''war'' to describe the conditions in Afghanistan. Defense Minister Franz Josef Jung told German radio, ''If we speak of war, then we are only concentrating on the military aspect in the region, and that is a mistake.''
 Mr. Jung's comments provoked sharp disagreement. ''For me, what is decisive is what the soldiers tell me,'' said Reinhold Robbe, the German Parliament's military commissioner, who had just visited troops in Afghanistan the week before. ''They say, 'Right now we aren't digging any wells and we aren't dedicating any schools. At the moment we are in a war.' ''
 A leading newspaper, Suddeutsche Zeitung, on Thursday called the debate over whether to call the conflict a war ''an aggravating semantic farce,'' and many here agree. But it also reveals the contradictory impulses in a society traumatized by two world wars and ashamed of its role in them, but also trying to act as a responsible ally. 
 As a result, the effort more often seems to be portrayed in Germany as a peacekeeping mission or civil aid delivered by soldiers. ''We have no leading politicians who can credibly and convincingly convey to the population why they should support the Afghanistan mission,'' said Winfried Nachtwei, a security expert in Parliament for the opposition Green Party. ''The chancellor only handles the subject with great caution.''
 With parliamentary elections coming up in September, Mrs. Merkel is under significant pressure on a number of issues. Like much of the rest of the world, Germany finds itself in the midst of a deep recession, but one made even more intense because of its economy's heavy reliance on exports as world trade has shriveled. 
 A draft budget approved by the German cabinet this week lists a 2010 deficit that could top $140 billion, a record for a country that is deeply wary of debt. That is equal to as much as 6 percent of Germany's gross domestic product, compared with a deficit of almost 13 percent of G.D.P. that the United States is expected to run in 2009.
 The trip to Washington is meant to put to rest widespread talk of tensions between Germany and the United States and a lack of chemistry between Mr. Obama and Mrs. Merkel, who dismissed talk of strains in their relationship at a news conference in Dresden this month. Mr. Obama is extraordinarily popular in Germany, and Mrs. Merkel can ill afford a rift. The two leaders expect to make a joint appearance in the Rose Garden of the White House that could be a help for the chancellor before the election.
 Afghanistan had receded from public attention somewhat with election protests in Iran, but with increasing violence and the presidential election coming up in Afghanistan, it will not stay that way for long.
 ''What I would do if I were a German is I would step up to the plate in a major way in the nonmilitary aid,'' said Mr. Hunter of RAND. ''If I were Merkel, I would come to town, say, 'I'm doing governance, reconstruction and development, and I'm doing it in a big way.' It not only contributes to the reality of the conflict, but also will buy a lot of credit.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Germany has lost 35 soldiers in Afghanistan, including a 21-year-old mourned last month in Bad Saulgau. The toll deepens the conflict's unpopularity.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PATRICK SEEGER/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (92%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); VEHICLE & BODY ARMOR (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); SURVEILLANCE & RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (69%)

COMPANY: RAND CORP (63%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC UNION (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (63%)

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (90%); BARACK OBAMA (88%); BILL CLINTON (73%); FRANZ JOSEF JUNG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (94%) GERMANY (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2009



712 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 461 words

HEADLINE: Two Utilities Are Leaving Clean Coal Initiative

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD; Kate Galbraith contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Two of the nation's biggest coal-burning utilities said Thursday that they were withdrawing from a $2.4 billion project to demonstrate carbon capture and storage, and would instead pursue their own work in the field. 
 The announcement by the utilities, Southern Company and American Electric Power, is a blow to the multinational consortium called the FutureGen Alliance. The group is seeking to build a $2.4 billion plant in Mattoon, Ill., that would convert coal to a fuel gas, capture the carbon dioxide and then burn the gas in a turbine to make electricity. Financing for the project was uncertain even before the announcement by the two utilities. 
 The Bush administration had tried to kill FutureGen, saying it was too expensive. But the Obama administration said last week it would restore financing. 
 Michael J. Mudd, chief executive of the alliance, said the group had begun with seven members, and had expanded to 13. After other departures, the group now has nine members, but it is seeking a total of 20. The alliance is a 501(c)(3) voluntary organization; each member has contributed about $2 million. 
 Executives are trying to determine whether costs have fallen because of the drop in the price of materials and construction work that has followed the recession. The federal government has agreed to contribute $1 billion, Mr. Mudd said, in addition to $100 million previously appropriated. The partners will contribute $400 million to $600 million, although that still leaves a shortfall. 
 To cut costs, the alliance had decided that initially, the plant would capture only 60 percent of the carbon dioxide instead of 90 percent as originally planned. 
 Much of the laborious work of picking a site and getting permits is done. But many companies are pursuing alternatives because of the delays created by government's vacillation in financing. 
 Steve Higginbottom, a spokesman for Southern Company, confirmed that the company had pulled out of the alliance.
 ''The reason we did was to focus on the projects that we are currently involved in with government and industry partners that focus on the carbon capture and sequestration and clean coal technologies,'' he said.
 Melissa McHenry, a spokeswoman for American Electric Power, cited the current economic conditions, a cut in the company's capital budget as well as the shortfall in the FutureGen plan. 
 She said the utility would focus on pursuing its own project at a plant in West Virginia.
 An environmental group supporting the project, the Natural Resources Defense Council, said it was disappointed with the news.
 ''We really do need an engagement with the private sector in this,'' Henry Henderson, the group's Midwest director, said. ''I don't believe it's a death knell.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLEAN COAL TECHNOLOGY (92%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (91%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); CARBON CAPTURE & STORAGE (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); RECESSION (73%); COAL INDUSTRY (73%); VOLUNTEERS (72%); APPROPRIATIONS (70%); EXECUTIVES (68%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (65%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (65%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (60%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (50%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN ELECTRIC POWER CO INC (91%); SOUTHERN CO (85%)

TICKER: AEP (NYSE) (91%); SO (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (91%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (91%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (85%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (85%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (85%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2009



713 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: Israelis Cede More Control Of Security in West Bank

BYLINE: By ISABEL KERSHNER; Khaled Abu Aker contributed reporting from Ramallah, the West Bank.

DATELINE: JERUSALEM 

 BODY:
Israel has agreed to give the Palestinian security forces more freedom of action in four West Bank cities, Israeli and Palestinian security officials said Thursday, a move that implies a reduction in Israeli military activity in those areas as the Western-backed Palestinian forces assert more control.
 The Israeli military also recently removed several significant checkpoints inside the West Bank, in line with a policy of easing movement and improving daily life for the Palestinians so long as calm prevails. A Palestinian can now drive from Jenin in the northern West Bank to Hebron in the south without being stopped and checked at any permanent roadblock along the way, the military says. 
 Israel has been under pressure from the Obama administration to halt all settlement activity in the West Bank and, together with the Palestinian leadership based there, to provide the basis for resuming stalled peace talks, but an Israeli Defense Ministry official denied the latest developments on the ground were directly linked.
 ''It is not that Obama came along and suddenly everything changes,'' said the official, who was not authorized to speak publicly about the matter. ''It is part of a gradual process.'' 
 Nevertheless, the United States and other Western powers have long called for an easing of restrictions in the West Bank, while the changes also seem in line with the policy of Benjamin Netanyahu, the conservative Israeli prime minister who took office almost three months ago, and who has advocated an ''economic peace'' and a bottom-up approach to peace making. 
 The Israeli concessions are also a tacit acknowledgment that the Palestinian security forces, who have received Western funds for training and equipment, are more in control of cities where chaos reigned in recent years. 
 But Palestinian officials said that the Israeli measures did not go far enough. The prime minister of the Palestinian Authority, Salam Fayyad, told reporters in the West Bank city of Ramallah on Thursday that they did not meet Palestinian expectations, and that ''what is required is a full cessation of military raids in Palestinian Authority areas.''
 Israeli military officials, speaking on the condition of anonymity under army rules, said that Palestinian forces would now be able to operate 24 hours a day in the cities of Ramallah, Qalqilya, Bethlehem and Jericho, and would have to coordinate less with Israeli forces in the area, implying that the forces would reduce their own nighttime raids on those cities. 
 Israeli forces have been carrying out arrest raids almost nightly. On Wednesday night, for example, seven Palestinian suspects were arrested, and on Monday night six were arrested, including three from Qalqilya. 
 Military officials emphasized that the army would continue to operate in all the West Bank, but one said that the army would now enter the four cities only ''in case of an urgent security need, and in accordance with security assessments.'' 
 The decision was reached at a meeting in Bethlehem on Wednesday between senior Israeli and Palestinian security officials. 
 Palestinian leaders have demanded a more far-reaching pullback of the Israeli military to positions it held before the outbreak of the intifada in 2000, when Palestinian security forces were in full control inside the Palestinian cities.
 Two recent deadly shootouts in Qalqilya between Palestinian forces and armed Palestinian militants of the Islamic group Hamas have been mentioned as evidence of a new determination on the part of the Palestinian security apparatus. Four police officers, four militants and a bystander were killed in the clashes that occurred during attempts to arrest the gunmen.
 But Israeli officials say the Palestinian forces still have some way to go before Israel can contemplate any kind of withdrawal. One described the Qalqilya events as ''the exception, not the rule.'' 
 In addition to removing the checkpoints, Israel says it has agreed to issue more V.I.P. cards for Palestinian businessmen, to ease their passage over the crossings into Israel. 
 The government has been vaguer, however, on how to advance the political process after Mr. Netanyahu accepted the principle, albeit with caveats, of the establishment of a demilitarized Palestinian state. 
 Amid the continuing dispute between the Obama administration and Israel over future settlement activity, a former Bush administration official stepped into the fray on Thursday, affirming Israel's assertion that it had agreements with the United States allowing some growth within the construction line of existing settlements. 
 Israel has been trying to renew those understandings with the Obama administration, but Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton has denied their existence, saying that ''in looking at the history of the Bush administration, there were no informal or oral enforceable agreements.'' 
 In an opinion article published in The Wall Street Journal, Elliott Abrams, the former Bush administration official, wrote that such statements were ''incorrect.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Palestinian security officer detained a man, later released, after a raid against Hamas gunmen in Qalqilya in early June.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MUHAMMED MUHEISEN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); PEACE PROCESS (70%); ARRESTS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (71%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (99%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2009



714 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 517 words

HEADLINE: Retail Shares Propel Rally on Wall Street

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
Optimism about the retail sector carried Wall Street higher on Thursday, even as the government reported that more workers were filing first-time jobless claims and receiving unemployment benefits. 
 And another successful auction of Treasury notes helped to soothe worries that interest rates were poised to spike and choke off a recovery.
As yields on government bonds climbed from record lows this spring, many investors began to get queasy that demand for Treasuries was easing just as the government's fund-raising needs were greatest. But good response to an auction of seven-year notes encouraged investors to buy government debt, trimming yields on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note.
 The note rose 1 6/32, to 96 18/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 3.54 percent, from 3.69 percent late Wednesday. 
 Analysts said that investors were also covering some short positions -- bets that shares will go down -- and rethinking some of the recent pessimism that has pulled indexes down by about 5 percent in the last two weeks. 
 ''I think we were oversold based on the news, and so maybe we're getting back to that equilibrium,'' said Andrew M. Brooks, head of United States equity trading at T. Rowe Price. ''We're still coming out of this recession. There are some indications that things aren't so bad.''
 The Dow Jones industrial average jumped 172.54 points, or 2.08 percent, to 8,472.40 Thursday. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 19.32 points, or 2.14 percent, to 920.26, and the Nasdaq composite index gained 37.20 points, or 2.08 percent, to 1,829.54.
 Crude oil settled at $70.23 a barrel, up $1.56.
 Retail stocks surged as better-than-expected earnings at Bed, Bath and Beyond and a merger of Dress Barn and Tween Brands heartened expectations about the consumer sector's resilience. Shares of Bed, Bath and Beyond rose 9.48 percent, or $2.69, to $31.08. Shares of Dress Barn jumped 8.84 percent, or $1.17, to $14.41; Tween Brands climbed 28 percent, or $1.45, to $6.63.
 The recession is culling winners from losers, analysts said. While some stores have gone out of business or declared bankruptcy, their troubles have created opportunities for rivals like Best Buy, which was up 3.28 percent, or $1.08, to $34.05.
 Financial companies were slightly higher as the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, denied accusations that he had exerted improper pressure on Bank of America to complete its purchase of Merrill Lynch. In a tense hearing on Capitol Hill, Mr. Bernanke said he had never threatened to replace management at Bank of America if they pulled out of the deal.
 While rising unemployment still threatens to increase foreclosures and pare spending, the disappointing numbers released Thursday did little to dampen investor sentiment.
 The Labor Department reported that initial claims for unemployment insurance rose 15,000 last week, to a seasonally adjusted 627,000, and that the total number of people receiving unemployment benefits rose. 
 Following are the results of Thursday's auction of seven-year Treasury notes: 

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Freddie Mac Yields: Average for some Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. securities.(Source: F.H.L.M.C.)
Tax-Exempt Yields: Average yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, plotted weekly.(Source: The Bond Buyer)
The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RECESSION (89%); DEBT NOTES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); BONDS (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); FUNDRAISING (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); INTEREST RATES (57%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); BED BATH & BEYOND INC (53%); TWEEN BRANDS INC (52%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (51%)

TICKER: BBBY (NASDAQ) (53%); BAC (NYSE) (51%); BAC (LSE) (51%); 8648 (TSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS442299 ALL OTHER HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (53%); NAICS442110 FURNITURE STORES (53%); NAICS423210 FURNITURE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (53%); NAICS448150 CLOTHING ACCESSORIES STORES (52%); NAICS448130 CHILDREN'S & INFANTS' CLOTHING STORES (52%); SIC5641 CHILDREN'S & INFANTS' WEAR STORES (52%); SIC5632 WOMEN'S ACCESSORY & SPECIALTY STORES (52%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2009



715 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE WORK-UP; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1552 words

HEADLINE: Obama and Congress Clash on How to Pay for Health Care

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
It has become the trillion-dollar question: can President Obama find that much in spending cuts and tax increases to keep his campaign promise to overhaul the health care system, without adding to already huge deficits? Mr. Obama and the Democrats running Congress are deeply split over the possibilities.
 House and Senate leaders do not like his ideas but cannot agree on alternatives. Other proposals that could reduce health care spending would take too long to show savings for purposes of Congress's budget scorekeeping, and many would require big investments initially, such as for research into cost-effective treatments. 
 Meanwhile, special interests like insurance companies, employers and even sugar beet and corn growers are on alert to oppose anything that could hurt them. 
 Adding to the pressure, Republicans are back to attacking Democrats as tax-and-spenders. Yet they have not proposed how to pay for their own, more modest health care proposals. Nor did they offset the cost of creating the Medicare prescription drug benefit six years ago when they controlled Congress and held the White House. Its projected deficits exceed the shortfall for all of Social Security over the next 75 years, according to the program's 2009 trustees report. 
 For some time, lawmakers and lobbyists privately assumed Mr. Obama would not hold the fiscal line for a deficit-neutral bill. Instead, he has reinforced it. Legislation ''must and will be paid for,'' he said in a news conference on Tuesday.
 Worries about the economy hardened Mr. Obama's resolve, administration officials say. ''There's a concern that if Congress were to pass a big health care bill that was heavily deficit-financed, financial markets could react negatively, with higher interest rates that could deepen the recession,'' said Robert Greenstein, the executive director of the liberal Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, which supports the administration's goal of a deficit-neutral health care overhaul. 
 Even so, each idea to cut spending or raise taxes has political pitfalls. A review of the options -- and how dug in the opponents are -- shows just how hard it will be for Mr. Obama to reshape the health system. Here are snapshots of major proposals:
 Limit income-tax deductions for high earners. This is Mr. Obama's main idea for raising revenue, but Congress is not likely to pass it except in a greatly scaled-down form.
 He proposed to collect a projected $267 billion over 10 years by making taxpayers in the top income tax brackets, now 33 percent and 35 percent, deduct their mortgage interest, state and local taxes and charitable donations at the 28 percent income tax rate. Democratic leaders immediately objected that that would hurt charities, universities and other entities dependent on tax-deductible donations, as well as taxpayers in high-tax cities and states, including New York City and other places home to Democratic leaders. 
 Mr. Obama has not given up. He counters that a 28 percent itemized deduction rate for top earners would be the same as under President Ronald Reagan. Just 1.4 percent of households would be affected, the nonpartisan Tax Policy Center reported. The Center on Philanthropy at Indiana University says charitable giving would decrease 2 percent.
 Any compromises would raise less revenue than Mr. Obama proposed. One alternative would exempt charitable contributions from the 28 percent limit. That, however, would provoke governors from high-tax states or Realtors and bankers protective of the mortgage tax break to press for exempting the other categories as well. 
 Another idea would maintain the 33 percent and 35 percent rates for itemized deductions after the Bush tax cuts for the rich expire in 2011, when the top two income tax rates revert to 36 percent and 39.6 percent. That would leave the current break for deductions unchanged, but prevent it from becoming relatively more generous when income taxes rise for affluent taxpayers.
 Even that fallback hit a wall in the Senate Finance Committee. The opposition of Senator Charles E. Grassley, the panel's senior Republican, carries weight with Senator Max Baucus, the Democratic chairman from Montana, who is determined to produce a bipartisan bill. Both men say any tax increases or cost savings should come from the health sector. Their preference is to make the value of workers' employer-provided health benefits subject to income taxes. 
 Tax employee health benefits. While House Democrats are opposed, the support of influential senators for taxing some benefits and the huge sums to be raised ensures that this option will be part of the debate. And Mr. Obama does not rule it out, though he opposed such a tax as a presidential candidate and promised that only the top 5 percent of Americans would see an income tax increase under his administration.
 The numbers underscore why this is both the most lucrative and the most controversial among the financing options. Taxing all employer-provided health benefits as income would raise more than $2.5 trillion over a decade -- more than twice Mr. Obama's goal. And employer-provided insurance is the largest source of coverage for Americans, benefiting about 160 million employees and their dependents under age 65.
 Most economists favor ending the tax break. They argue that it mainly goes to upper-income taxpayers and discourages cost-consciousness among consumers, thus encourages excessive spending on health care. Many Republicans also oppose the tax break, as did some senior Obama advisers, including Peter R. Orszag, the budget director, and the economist Jason Furman, before they joined the administration.
 But its supporters include unions, which are a force in the Democratic Party and count tax-free health benefits as a legacy of the labor movement, as well as many businesses eager to attract and retain valued employees with good benefits. The opponents of taxing job-related health benefits cite analyses projecting that several million Americans could lose insurance if the tax break were repealed and some employers dropped coverage. 
 The senators are not suggesting repealing the tax break. Instead, they want to cap the value of benefits that go untaxed. For example, if the tax-free limit is $13,000, an employee with a policy worth $15,000 would pay income taxes on $2,000.
 But the cap proposal does not satisfy opponents who say that it could penalize taxpayers in areas with high medical costs. One potential compromise is to avoid the controversy altogether and instead impose an income-tax surcharge on the wealthiest taxpayers.
 Spend less on Medicare. Roughly two-thirds of the $948 billion in savings that Mr. Obama has proposed over 10 years would come from a range of reductions in projected Medicare spending. Those would mean lower payments to hospitals and other health care providers as well as insurance companies, inviting opposition from some of the country's most formidable lobbies.
 The biggest savings he proposes, $177 billion, would come from having insurance companies bid for government reimbursements for offering private plans, known as Medicare Advantage, to senior citizens. The administration also has proposed to cut $106 billion in subsidies to hospitals that serve many uninsured patients, arguing that fewer Americans would lack coverage after overhauling health care. And it says $110 billion could be cut by reducing payments to hospitals and doctors generally to reflect productivity gains.
 The Senate Finance Committee is working to reduce Medicare and Medicaid payments over time to a range of industries -- insurance companies, hospitals, doctors, drug makers, nursing homes, home health care companies and medical device makers -- arguing that all of them stand to benefit from overhauling health care, with more paying customers.
 Increase behavior-changing ''sin taxes.'' Congressional analyses show that more than $200 billion over 10 years could be collected from new or increased taxes on sugared soft drinks, tobacco products and alcoholic beverages implicated in common health problems like obesity and cancer. Yet while the options are on the lawmakers' table, Senator Baucus has said they are on ''life support.''
 The Joint Committee on Taxation calculated that a 3-cent tax on each 12-ounce sugared soda would raise $51.6 billion over a decade. But opposition is not limited to the bottling industry. Major sources of sweeteners include Montana, which has a large sugar beet industry, and Iowa, which produces high-fructose corn syrup -- the home states of Senators Baucus and Grassley.
 The government could raise $61.5 billion with an additional alcoholic beverage tax that would mean about 40 cents more for a fifth of liquor, 48 cents for a six-pack of beer and 49 cents on a bottle of wine. Advocates point out that federal alcohol taxes were last raised in 1991; adjusted for inflation, they are 37 percent lower now. But local wineries and microbreweries now operate in nearly every state, suggesting that major distillers will not be the only opposition.
 Each of these taxes is often criticized as regressive, meaning it would disproportionately affect lower-income people. But proponents counter that the poor have the most to gain from universal health coverage. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The president is unwilling to add to the deficit to finance his plan for a greater government role in health care, being debated in a Senate committee.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B1)
President Obama, with the vice president and governors, said adding to the deficit was not an option. Any health care legislation, he said, ''must and will be paid for.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY SHAWN THEW/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)(pg. B6) CHART: Paying for Health Care Reform: With President Obama insisting that legislation overhauling health care must not add to the budget deficit, he and Congress are struggling to agree to spending cuts and revenue increases of at least $1 trillion over a decade. A look at some proposals under consideration and estimated savings or revenue they would bring over 10 years. (Sources: Joint Committee on Taxation
 White House Office of Management and Budget)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); INCOME TAX (84%); LOBBYING (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); RECESSION (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); BUDGET FORECASTS (75%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (72%); CHARITIES (72%); MEDICARE (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); INSURANCE (69%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (69%); INTEREST RATES (68%); CHARITABLE GIVING (63%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2009



716 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey Passes Budget Fueled by $1 Billion in Tax Increases

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

DATELINE: TRENTON 

 BODY:
New Jersey lawmakers passed a $29 billion budget largely along partisan lines on Thursday night that will increase taxes by almost $1 billion, eliminate property-tax deductions for the wealthiest residents and pare billions from health care, higher education and other programs.
 The bulk of the new revenue in the budget, which is $4 billion less than the current budget, will come from a one-year increase in the income tax on people making more than $400,000 a year, or roughly 61,000 residents. Taxes will go up by 12.5 cents per pack on cigarettes, and 25 percent on hard liquor and wine. People who win $10,000 or more in the lottery will see their good fortune taxed as well. 
 Those who make more than $250,000 a year will no longer be able to deduct their property taxes, at least for one year. Those making between $150,000 and $250,000, meanwhile, can deduct only a maximum of $5,000.
 Add it all up, and what it could mean for, say, a family making $500,000 a year and paying $20,000 in property taxes is $2,600 more in income tax payments and $1,250 less in property-tax deductions, according to James W. Hughes, dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers.
 By contrast, those making less than the state median income of $82,000 stand to be largely spared. And nothing illustrates that more than the property tax rebate program, which can put up to $1,000 back in homeowners' pockets. This year, the program will be limited to households earning less than $75,000; last year, the threshold was $150,000, and two years ago, it was $250,000.
 The increase in taxes was necessitated by a $5 billion drop in revenues, due largely to Wall Street's collapse.
 As has been the case in recent years, the budget vote produced its share of drama, especially in the Senate, where Democrats hold a tenuous 23 to 17 majority. On the eve of the vote, several Senate Democrats, unhappy about various provisions, threatened to join Republicans in voting no.
 But after two hours of sometimes angry debate, the Senate approved the budget, 22 to 17, for the fiscal year that begins on July 1. The Assembly did the same hours earlier by a 45-to-34 vote. Gov. Jon S. Corzine is expected to sign the package.
 Over all, the budget is $2 billion smaller than Mr. Corzine's first budget in 2006 -- a number that his fellow Democrats pointed to as an example of his fiscal restraint.
 And with Mr. Corzine facing a tough re-election battle in November, some Democrats defended him.
 ''Nobody in their wildest dreams ever thought that we would have to do a budget like this,'' the Senate president, Richard J. Codey, said during an unusually angry speech on the floor. ''This state is like every other state in this country, whether they are run by Republicans or Democrats. Was that Jon Corzine's fault? Was it the Legislature's fault? No, that was Washington, D.C.''
 But Republicans -- who have rallied strongly behind Mr. Corzine's opponent, Christopher J. Christie, the former United States attorney -- derided the budget as the worst in the last decade. They warned that it was full of Band-Aids designed to mask serious problems.
 ''This is only going to add additional pain to the taxpayers, who are suffocating now with taxes,'' said Senator Christopher Bateman of Somerset County.
 Legislators had been preparing to vote on an even more draconian budget last week. But those plans were upended when Mr. Corzine announced that a tax amnesty program he proposed two months ago had collected more than $600 million, or $400 million more than expected. The windfall enabled Mr. Corzine to provide more money in property tax rebates. 
 Indeed, some Democrats took a decidedly glass-half-full view of the state's economic outlook, arguing that New Jersey was in better shape than other states -- economically and constitutionally. Assemblyman Louis D. Greenwald of Camden County, the Budget Committee chairman, cited other states as doing things that New Jersey had resisted doing, like making cuts to veterans groups, education and health care.
 ''In Albany and Sacramento, the budget process has been replaced by bedlam,'' he said. ''I heard arguments from the other side that New Jersey is not like other states. I say, thank goodness for that.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX INCREASES (93%); BUDGETS (91%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); APPROVALS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (76%); TAX RELIEF (73%); DISTILLED LIQUORS (70%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2009



717 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1138 words

HEADLINE: Kentucky Pastor Invites Flock To Carry Firearms to Church

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

DATELINE: LOUISVILLE, Ky. 

 BODY:
Ken Pagano, the pastor of the New Bethel Church here, is passionate about gun rights. He shoots regularly at the local firing range, and his sermon two weeks ago was on ''God, Guns, Gospel and Geometry.'' And on Saturday night, he is inviting his congregation of 150 and others to wear or carry their firearms into the sanctuary to ''celebrate our rights as Americans!'' as a promotional flier for the ''open carry celebration'' puts it. 
 ''God and guns were part of the foundation of this country,'' Mr. Pagano, 49, said Wednesday in the small brick Assembly of God church, where a large wooden cross hung over the altar and two American flags jutted from side walls. ''I don't see any contradiction in this. Not every Christian denomination is pacifist.''
 The bring-your-gun-to-church day, which will include a $1 raffle of a handgun, firearms safety lessons and a picnic, is another sign that the gun culture in the United States is thriving despite, or perhaps because of, President Obama's election in November. 
 Last year, the National Rifle Association ran a multimillion-dollar advertising campaign against Mr. Obama, stoking fears that he would be the most antigun president in history and that firearms would be confiscated. One worry was that a Democratic president and Congress would reinstitute the assault-weapons ban, which expired in 2004.
 But there is little support for the ban. Mr. Obama and his party have largely ignored gun-control issues, and the president even signed a measure that will allow firearms in national parks.
 Still, the fear remains that Mr. Obama, and his attorney general, Eric H. Holder Jr., will crack down on guns sooner or later. That -- along with the faltering economy, which gun sellers say has spurred purchases for self-defense -- has fueled a record surge in gun sales.
 ''Every president wants to be re-elected, and gun bans are pretty much a nonstarter for getting re-elected,'' said Win Underwood, owner of the Bluegrass Indoor Range here. ''What I suspect is going to happen is, Obama's going to cool his jets until he can get re-elected, and then he'll start building his legacy in these hot-button areas.'' 
 When Mr. Obama was elected in November, federal instant background checks, the best indicator of gun sales, jumped 42 percent over the previous November. Every month since then, the number of checks has been higher than the year before, although the postelection surge may be tapering off, as all surges eventually do. While the number of checks in April increased 30 percent from the year before, the number of checks in May (1,023,102) was only 15 percent higher than in May 2008.
 The National Rifle Association says its membership is up 30 percent since November. And several states have recently passed laws allowing gun owners to carry firearms in more places -- bars, restaurants, cars and parks.
 ''We have a very active agenda in all 50 states,'' said Chris W. Cox, legislative director of the N.R.A., widely considered the country's most powerful lobby. ''We have right-to-carry laws in over 40 states; 20 years ago, it was in just six.''
 Of the 40 states with right-to-carry laws, 20 allow guns in churches.
 Public attitudes also seem to be turning more sympathetic to gun owners. In April, the Pew Research Center found for the first time that almost as many people said it was more important to protect the rights of gun owners (45 percent) than to control gun ownership (49 percent). Just a year ago, Pew said, 58 percent said gun control was more important than the rights of gun owners (37 percent).
 Gun-control advocates say they feel increasingly ineffective, especially after a recent spate of high-profile shootings, including last month's murder, inside a church in Kansas, of a doctor who performed late-term abortions. 
 ''We've definitely been marginalized,'' said Pam Gersh, a public relations consultant here who helped organize a rally in Louisville in 2000, to coincide with the Million Mom March against guns in Washington.
 ''The Brady Campaign and other similar organizations who advocate sensible gun responsibility laws don't have the money and the political power -- not even close,'' she said. ''This pastor is obviously crossing a line here and saying 'I can even take my guns to church, and there is nothing you can do about it.' ''
 Ms. Gersh said she was not aware that a group of local churches and peace activists were staging a counterpicnic -- called ''Bring your peaceful heart, leave your gun at home'' -- at the same time as Mr. Pagano's event. 
 But news media attention -- some from overseas -- has focused on Mr. Pagano, who has been planning the event for a year, in celebration of the Fourth of July. Cameras will not be allowed in the church, he said, to protect the congregation's privacy. 
 The celebration will feature lessons in responsible gun ownership, Mr. Pagano said. Sheriff's deputies will be at the doors to check that openly carried firearms are unloaded, but they will not check for concealed weapons.
 ''That's the whole point of concealed,'' Mr. Pagano said, adding that he was not worried because such owners require training. 
 Mr. Pagano said the church's insurance company, which he would not identify, had canceled the church's policy for the day on Saturday and told him that it would cancel the policy for good at the end of the year. If he cannot find insurance for Saturday, people will not be allowed in openly carrying their guns.
 Arkansas and Georgia recently rejected efforts to allow people to carry concealed weapons in church. Watching the debate in Arkansas was John Phillips, pastor of the Central Church of Christ in Little Rock. In 1986, Mr. Phillips was preaching in a different church there when a gunman shot him and a parishioner. Both survived, but Mr. Phillips, 51, still has a bullet lodged in his spine.
 In a telephone interview, he said he found the idea of ''packing in the pew'' abhorrent.
 ''There is a movement afoot across the nation, with the gun lobby pushing the envelope, trying to allow concealed weapons to be carried in places where they used to be prohibited -- churches, schools, bars,'' Mr. Phillips said.
 ''I don't understand how any minister who is familiar with the teachings of the Bible can do this,'' he added. ''Jesus didn't say, 'Go ahead, make my day.' ''
 Mr. Pagano takes such comments as a challenge to his faith and says they make him more determined.
 ''When someone from within the church tells me that being a Christian and having firearms are contradictions, that they're incompatible with the Gospel -- baloney,'' he said. ''As soon as you start saying that it's not something that Christians do, well, guns are just the foil. The issue now is the Gospel. So in a sense, it does become a crusade. Now the Gospel is at stake.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ken Pagano, a pastor in Louisville, at an indoor firing range.(pg. A1)
Ken Pagano of New Bethel Church in Louisville, Ky. ''God and guns were part of the foundation of this country,'' he said.
 Mr. Pagano says he sees no contradiction in promoting gun rights and the Gospel. Below, he loads a handgun magazine.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM WINN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FIREARMS (93%); RIGHT TO BEAR ARMS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); GUN CONTROL (90%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (78%); NATIONAL PARKS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (63%); LAWYERS (61%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (52%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL RIFLE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); ERIC HOLDER (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (90%) KENTUCKY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2009



718 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: K.K.R.'s Valuation Returns to Earth

 BODY:
A tough year seems to have brought reality home to the buyout barons at Kohlberg Kravis Roberts. The firm's latest step toward a full stock market listing looks more practical than last year's overambitious plan.
 In July, K.K.R., the private equity firm, wanted to buy and delist its Amsterdam-listed investment vehicle, KKR Private Equity Investors, also known as K.P.E. Shortly afterward, it intended to list the enlarged K.K.R. on the New York Stock Exchange. But the deal seemed too complicated even before the market turmoil.
 The equity firm's aspirations on its own value also looked like a stretch. Last year, K.K.R. hinted at a market cap in its predeal form of up to $15 billion, when about two-thirds that size seemed more reasonable. 
 Now, everything appears to fit a little better. K.P.E.'s shares trade at around $6 apiece, for a market cap of $1.2 billion. They have risen lately, but being closely held and not very liquid, they probably do not reflect the full value of K.K.R.'s offer.
 The underlying net asset value of KKR Private Equity Investors' holdings is $2.6 billion. Split the difference, and the 30 percent of K.K.R. that K.P.E. will get could be worth around $1.9 billion.
 That means the other 70 percent -- essentially, K.K.R. -- would be worth about $4.5 billion. The second stage of K.K.R.'s plan, a New York listing of the enlarged firm next year, could raise that valuation somewhat.
 Consider Blackstone, a publicly traded rival. Like K.K.R., it lost money last year. But Blackstone's stock trades at about 10 times the five-year average of its ''economic net income,'' an adjusted measure of pretax profit. Apply the same multiple to the five-year average of K.K.R.'s economic net income, and it would be worth about $5.2 billion.
 Investors sometimes use other measures to value fund managers. Blackstone's market cap as a percentage of its $92 billion of assets under management is around 14 percent. Using that figure, K.K.R.'s $47 billion of assets -- admittedly, a different mix than Blackstone's -- would be worth $6.6 billion.
 Based on these metrics, a publicly traded version of K.K.R. might be valued from $5 billion to $7 billion. K.K.R. thought it was worth more than twice that last year. So if they're determined to go public, even masters of the universe must inch closer to earth.
 Siberian Waterloo 
 The town of Khanty-Mansiysk isn't known for its contributions to legal theory. But it was in a courtroom in this Siberian oil town that troubles began for Telenor, Norway's top telephone company. Last December, Telenor was fined $2.8 billion after a court found that it had blocked the expansion plans of Vimpelcom, a Russian mobile operator. 
 The suit was brought by a Virgin Islands-registered shareholder owning two-thousandths of 1 percent of Vimpelcom, in which Telenor owns a 29 percent stake. In February the fine was reduced, but only to $1.7 billion.
 Russian court officials have now started proceedings to seize Telenor's $3 billion stake in Vimpelcom and sell it to pay the fine. After such a David-and-Goliath victory, who could say Russia doesn't uphold the rights of minority shareholders?
 In reality, the situation is a bad joke. The court action appears to be another twist in a long-running battle between Telenor and Vimpelcom's other major shareholder, the Alfa Group, the Russian bank that owns 44 percent. Alfa wants Vimpelcom to take over Telenor's Ukrainian mobile operator, Kievstar. Telenor fears the complaining shareholder was acting on Alfa's behalf and views the episode as a negotiating tactic in Alfa's pursuit of that deal. 
 Alfa has a history of uneasy and litigious coexistence with Western companies. In recent years, it managed to beat BP into a compromise on the governance of their Russian joint venture after the British oil company was repeatedly raided for everything from tax evasion to labor law violations. 
 President Dmitri Medvedev has appointed a commission to study how to improve Russia's bruised image. Russia often passes abroad for a country where a corrupt judiciary and blackmail are staples of business life. If Mr. Medvedev is serious about changing that perception, he should take a close look at the Telenor case. RICHARD BEALES and PIERRE BRIANCON 
 For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dmitri Medvedev has appointed a commission to look at Russia's image.(PHOTOGRAPH BY POOL PHOTO BY YURI KADOBNOV) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (90%); PRIVATE EQUITY (90%); DELISTINGS (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (62%)

COMPANY: KKR & CO LP (96%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%)

TICKER: KKR (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (96%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (96%)

PERSON: DMITRY MEDVEDEV (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (50%)

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2009



719 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 519 words

HEADLINE: Qantas Reduces Orders For Boeing's Dreamliner

BYLINE: By BETTINA WASSENER

DATELINE: HONG KONG 

 BODY:
Qantas Airways of Australia said Friday that it would withdraw or defer orders for 30 of Boeing's new 787 Dreamliner aircraft.
 Besides dealing a blow to the manufacturer, the move highlights the intense pressure for cost savings at airlines worldwide as the industry struggles to adjust to a sharp drop in passengers and freight. 
 Qantas, still the largest customer of the long-range, wide-body Dreamliner aircraft that is considered crucial to Boeing's future, is canceling orders for 15 of the 787s in a move that it said would save the airline $3 billion. It is delaying delivery of 15 others by four years.
 Alan Joyce, the company's chief executive, said in a statement that the decision was not linked to news Tuesday that the Boeing 787's first flight had been delayed to allow additional minor modifications to what has been called the world's most sophisticated plane.
 Those problems were the latest in a series of delays in the Dreamliner project and set off concerns about the possible effect on initial delivery schedules. The first delivery, to All Nippon Airways, is scheduled for the first quarter of 2010. 
 Qantas said it would retain orders for 50 of the new aircraft, including 15 for its low-cost subsidiary, Jetstar. A spokesman for Qantas, Simon Rushton, declined to comment on whether the airline would pay a penalty for the cancellation.
 Jim Proulx, a Boeing spokesman in Seattle, said the company began discussing the order several months ago and was working with Qantas ''to make changes appropriate to the current climate.'' Analysts said the Australian flag carrier's cancellation was one of the most significant such announcements to date, even in an industry that has already undergone major cost cuts and shake-ups.
 ''For Qantas to pull or defer deliveries is a major, major step,'' said Derek Sadubin, an analyst at the Center for Asia Pacific Aviation, a consulting company in Sydney.
 The Qantas decision takes the number of cancellations for the 787 from airlines around the world so far this year to 73, or about 8 percent of total orders for the aircraft, Mr. Sadubin said, adding that more cancellations -- of aircraft of all types and makes -- were probable.
 Mr. Joyce said, ''Qantas announced its original B787 order in December 2005, and the operating environment for the world's airlines has clearly changed dramatically since then.'' 
 The global economic turmoil has taken a heavy toll on passenger and cargo traffic, with the latest figures from the International Air Transport Association showing that passenger numbers in May were 9.3 percent below numbers from a year earlier, and freight demand was down 17.4 percent.
 Falling volumes, combined with soaring oil prices last year, have led airlines to reduce staff and flights, park planes and shelve investment plans, including aircraft orders.
 Like many of its rivals, Qantas expects sharply reduced profit this year. In April, it said it would shed 1,750 jobs, in addition to 1,500 job cuts announced last year, and warned it was exploring ways to reduce the number of aircraft it was to receive from Boeing.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: First delays, and now a downturn, have hurt the Boeing 787.(PHOTOGRAPH BY QANTAS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRCRAFT ORDERS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (90%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); AIRCRAFT MFG (78%); AIR FREIGHT (78%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (78%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); LAYOFFS (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); EXECUTIVES (54%)

COMPANY: BOEING CO (92%); QANTAS AIRWAYS LTD (91%); ALL NIPPON AIRWAYS CO LTD (55%); AIRLINES FOR AMERICA (50%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (92%); BAB (BRU) (92%); BA (NYSE) (92%); QAN (ASX) (91%); ANA (LSE) (55%); 9202 (TSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (92%); NAICS561520 TOUR OPERATORS (91%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); SIC4725 TOUR OPERATORS (91%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (73%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (77%); HONG KONG (67%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2009



720 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1221 words

HEADLINE: Trading Up Comes With Speed Bumps

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY and SARA PETERS; Nick Bunkley reported from Detroit and Sara Peters from New York.

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
In Europe, hundreds of thousands of car owners have taken advantage of government subsidies to get rid of their old vehicles and trade up to new ones. Car sales in Germany are up about 40 percent from a year ago.
 But a similar so-called cash-for-clunkers program that starts in July in the United States is not expected to have nearly the same impact. While the program, which President Obama signed into law this week, gives consumers a credit that is in line with the payments in Europe -- up to $4,500 -- what qualifies as a ''clunker'' in the United States is far more limited. 
 Further, the American program has $1 billion in financing, enough for about 250,000 consumers to use it, and ends Nov. 1, or sooner if the money runs out. Germany, on the other hand, originally expected to spend 1.5 billion euros to get 600,000 old cars off the road. But the program proved so popular, the government this spring raised the budget to 5 billion euros for two million cars and extended the deadline to the end of 2009. 
 Still, if the alternative is to simply wait for the market to recover on its own, dealers and carmakers in the United States say they will take what they can get. 
 ''It's better than nothing, that's for sure,'' said George Pipas, the Ford Motor Company's chief sales analyst. ''Anything to get consumers off the couch and give them a reason to go to the dealership.''
 The program, formally known as the Car Allowance Rebate System, is aimed at reducing fuel consumption by removing older, gas-guzzling vehicles from the nation's roads. The cars and trucks turned in will be scrapped and their owners given a credit of either $3,500 or $4,500 toward a new vehicle. The amount of the credit depends on the fuel-efficiency rating of the new vehicle. The official Web site for the program is cars.gov.
 In Europe, where nearly a dozen European countries have clunker programs, the details vary. But generally, the programs require only that the vehicle being turned in is old. In Germany, eligible cars have to be at least nine years old, and the subsidy covers the purchase of any new car, regardless of its size or fuel efficiency. 
 The American program, by contrast, is far more complicated. To qualify, consumers must turn in a vehicle that is no more than 25 years old and has a combined city and highway fuel economy rating of no more than 18 miles per gallon, as calculated by the Environmental Protection Agency. The E.P.A. lists vehicles' ratings at the Web site FuelEconomy.gov. 
 The old vehicle must be drivable, and it must have been insured by and registered to the same person for at least the last year, preventing shoppers from buying an old car and flipping it to get a discount on a new vehicle. The credit cannot be applied toward a used vehicle or toward new vehicles that cost more than $45,000.
 To get the full $4,500 credit, consumers must buy either a new truck or sport utility vehicle that is rated at least five miles per gallon higher than the scrapped vehicle or a passenger car that is rated at least 10 miles per gallon higher than the scrapped vehicle. Because the old vehicle will be destroyed, the credit is given instead of the regular trade-in value -- not in addition to it -- though some dealers might compensate customers for the vehicle's scrap value. 
 The rules mean that the owner of a 2003 Chevrolet Trailblazer, which qualifies because it gets about 16 miles per gallon, would get nearly $2,000 less under the program than by making a normal trade-in. Conversely, a 1992 Honda Civic, which is worth only a few hundred dollars, does not qualify because its gas mileage is too high.
 ''It has to be worth not very much and it also has to get very poor E.P.A. fuel economy,'' said Jack R. Nerad, the executive editorial director and market analyst for Kelley Blue Book. ''It's a fairly narrow profile. You're talking about people who are probably economically challenged to begin with and they have to be able to qualify for a new car purchase in the midst of a deep recession. Those are some difficult parameters.''
 But Mr. Nerad said the program could have a broader impact just by encouraging consumers to look at new vehicles, something many have not done because of uncertainty about their jobs and finances during the recession.
 ''Some people will be moved to check out the program and start shopping for new cars,'' he said. ''Even if they discover the program won't work for them, they'll get the new car bug. Anything that improves dealer traffic generally results in sales increases.''
 The day the program starts is still to be determined. The law states it will be whenever the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration finishes its rules for the program, which it must do within 30 days of the law's being signed on June 24. (The cars.gov site says to ''contact your dealer in mid-July.'') 
 The prospect of the program persuaded Jon Edwards, who owns a 1997 Saab 9000 that is rated at 18 miles per gallon, to visit a Toyota dealership near his home in Freeport, Me. Mr. Edwards, who said he usually buys used vehicles and drives them ''into the ground,'' decided to buy a 2010 Toyota Prius after finding out that the $4,500 credit he would receive is several thousand dollars more than his Saab is worth. The Prius, a newly redesigned hybrid sedan, gets 50 miles per gallon.
 ''I have had my eyes on a Prius for a long time. But the program really gave me incentive,'' Mr. Edwards said. ''It is safe to say that without the program, I would not buy a 2010 Prius.'' 
 Mr. Edwards's dealer, Adam Lee, who owns a chain of nine showrooms in Maine, said he was excited about the program but wished it required people to buy even more efficient vehicles.
 ''Most trade-ins will come in with cars worth between zero and $1,000 dollars,'' Mr. Lee said. ''Because of this, we are expecting to do really well with the program. When people are trading in cars like this, the cars are now worth $3,500 or $4,500.''
 Mr. Nerad and other experts say most of the vehicles that will be turned in are likely to be trucks rather than cars, because trucks generally get worse mileage. Twenty-two of the 32 vehicles listed by Consumer Reports as the ''best gas guzzlers to junk'' for the program are trucks. Mileage requirements for new trucks are more lenient. For the $3,500 credit, new trucks have to get only two miles per gallon better than the old vehicle, while new cars must get at least four miles per gallon more.
 In addition, the Detroit automakers, whose sales have suffered the most, could benefit less than import brands. Only eight of the 48 models that Consumer Reports recommends buying under the program are domestic: five from Ford, three from General Motors and none from Chrysler.
 In Conroe, Tex., Chris McCollum, the sales manager at Buckalew Chevrolet, hopes the program brings in more shoppers but described it as ''not that big of a deal.'' A similar program that ran in Texas for about 18 months resulted in about two dozen sales for the dealership, about 40 miles north of Houston.
 ''People would not be driving a $200 car if they could finance a more expensive car,'' Mr. McCollum said. ''On the surface, this program looks good and has potential to help dealers. But this is not by any means a saving grace for car dealers.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The 1997 Saab that Jon Edwards of Freeport, Me., plans to trade in shows damage on the front and rear bumpers.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOEL PAGE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B1)
 The hood ornament of Jon Edwards's 1997 Saab shows wear. Mr. Edwards plans to trade in the car and buy a Toyota Prius.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOEL PAGE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B5) CHART: Worth Trading In: More than 30 models of gas-guzzling cars and trucks may be worth less than the $3,500 vouchers the government plans to offer to get them off the road, according to Consumer Reports.(Source: Consumer Reports)(B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (89%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOBILE RATINGS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SCRAPPAGE PROGRAMS (78%); EURO (77%); BUDGETS (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); WEB SITES (61%); LEGISLATION (56%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (91%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (91%); F (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); GERMANY (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2009



721 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 316 words

HEADLINE: Ignoring the Unemployed

 BODY:
New York State has not increased its maximum unemployment benefit -- a meager $405 a week -- in a decade, and a drive to raise payment levels has been derailed by the legislative chaos in Albany. While the politicians squabble, victims of the economic downturn are struggling to make ends meet. The governor and legislative leaders should increase unemployment benefits without further delay. 
 New York State was once a leader in providing unemployment insurance. Now it is a laggard -- nationally and in the region. Connecticut pays up to $576 a week, and New Jersey up to $584. Even with an additional $25 a week temporarily added by the federal stimulus program, New York's payments do not begin to equal the cost of living in one of the most expensive states.
 Bills have been introduced in the Legislature to raise the maximum benefit to $625 over the next few years, and then to index it to 50 percent of the average weekly wage. Indexing is necessary to ensure that benefit levels, never a legislative priority, do not fall behind again. Business interests have been fighting the raises, which would be financed by reasonable tax increases.
 New York's unemployment rate was 8.2 percent last month, a 16-year high, and the number of jobless people in the state is the highest it has been in 33 years. An adequate system of unemployment insurance, which is an important part of the social safety net, is particularly necessary now. It can also be a powerful form of economic stimulus since it puts money into the hands of people who can be counted on to spend most of it right away.
 The State Senate's recent escapades are interfering with important work for the people of New York. If the state's elected officials want to show that they care about their constituents, and not merely their own power machinations, increasing unemployment insurance benefits would be a good place to start.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (92%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COST OF LIVING (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); POLITICS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2009



722 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 630 words

HEADLINE: UBS Raises $3.5 Billion Amid Skepticism on Banks

BYLINE: By MATTHEW SALTMARSH; Chris V. Nicholson and Cat Contiguglia contributed reporting.

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
UBS, the Swiss banking company, said Friday that it had raised $3.5 billion to shore up its balance sheet as European regulators presented a mixed picture of the health of the banking sector and the risks ahead.
 UBS, which has taken more write-downs during the downturn than any European peer, said Friday that it had raised 3.8 billion Swiss francs in a private placement. Including the latest placement, it has raised 38.3 billion francs since the financial crisis began. 
 Risky investments by UBS's investment bank have forced it to take more than $53 billion in write-downs and to turn to the government for help. 
 In Paris, meanwhile, the Bank of France's banking commission said that domestic banks have, so far, been able to weather the financial crisis, ''while maintaining a good level of solvency.''
 In London, the British regulator, the Bank of England, was slightly more cautious. It said that although market sentiment had improved, lenders remained ''vulnerable,'' citing high leverage and financing pressures. 
 UBS was hit hard by bad investments linked to the American mortgage market. Credit Suisse, its domestic rival, has also had losses, but it has avoided a government bailout and has arranged a recapitalization through other sources.
 Last week, the Swiss National Bank and the Swiss banking regulator Finma said that UBS needed to bolster its capital.
 UBS said in a statement on Friday that it offered about 293 million newly issued shares to a small number of institutional investors at 13 francs a share. 
 In October, the government injected six billion francs into UBS in exchange for convertible notes that could give it an 8.5 percent stake in the bank. The government has said it wants to sell its stake as soon as possible after UBS is back on solid ground.
 Swiss regulators are also considering taking on new emergency powers that would allow them to break up large banks to wind down troubled business units that were not essential to the functioning of the economy.
 ''We welcome the capital increase,'' Tobias Brutsch, an analyst at the Swiss private bank Vontobel, said in a research note. ''UBS had to enhance its capital base after U.S. banks' capital hikes.'' 
 UBS announced the share offering after saying it expected to post a loss for its second quarter.
 Mr. Brutsch said the second-quarter loss was expected because of impairment charges on leveraged financial instruments and a restructuring charge related to the investment banking unit. 
 For the first quarter, UBS lost 1.98 billion Swiss francs, or $1.75 billion. The bank is also cutting 8,700 jobs through 2010, about 11 percent of its work force. Its chief executive, Oswald J. Grubel, has replaced executive board members and sold its Brazilian business since being appointed in February.
 Meanwhile, in its 2008 annual report, the French regulator said the aggregate net income of the country's eight largest banking groups -- Credit Agricole, BNP Paribas, Societe Generale, Caisse d'Epargne, Banque Populaire, Credit Mutuel-CIC, HSBC France and Dexia Credit Local -- was 3.6 billion euros, or about $5 billion, down 83 percent from 2007.
 The lower earnings, the report said, were a result of continued write-downs and value adjustments related to soured assets, the collapse of Lehman Brothers in September, a weak performance from corporate and investment banking and asset management operations and a rise in corporate failures.
 In London, the Bank of England's semiannual Financial Stability Report stressed that further economic shocks remained possible. 
 ''Balance sheets of banks internationally remain weak,'' it said in the report, adding that ''bank leverage remains high, so net worth is sensitive to changes in sentiment about asset values.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); NEW ISSUES (89%); COMPANY LOSSES (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); SOLVENCY RATIO (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); BANKING LAW (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); PRIVATE PLACEMENTS (76%); APPOINTMENTS (75%); BAILOUTS (75%); ANNUAL REPORTS (73%); STOCK OFFERINGS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); DEBT NOTES (70%); LABOR FORCE (69%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (60%); EXECUTIVES (60%)

COMPANY: UBS AG (94%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (90%); SCHWEIZERISCHE NATIONALBANK (67%); BANK OF ENGLAND (56%)

TICKER: UBSN (SWX) (94%); UBS (NYSE) (94%); CSGN (SWX) (90%); CS (NYSE) (90%); SNBN (SWX) (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (94%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (94%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (67%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (56%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (71%) FRANCE (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2009



723 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 504 words

PERSON: Robert A. Derzon 

HEADLINE: Robert A. Derzon, First Director of Medicare and Medicaid, Dies at 78

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI

 BODY:
Robert A. Derzon, the first director of the federal agency that manages Medicare and Medicaid, died June 17 in Orangeville, Ontario, where he was visiting a friend. He was 78 and lived in Mill Valley, Calif. 
 The cause was swine flu, Mr. Derzon's son Mike said.
 Mr. Derzon, who had previously been deputy commissioner of New York City's Department of Hospitals, was chosen by President Jimmy Carter in 1977 to head what was then called the Health Care Financing Administration. Now called the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, the agency was created in March 1977 to coordinate the two programs, which since they were created in 1965 had been run separately. Essentially, Medicare provides health insurance for people 65 and over and Medicaid provides insurance for poor people.
 In his two years as director, Mr. Derzon faced the difficult task of minimizing fraud and abuse in the programs and the apparently insurmountable task of slowing the soaring rate of hospital cost increases. His cost-cutting suggestions were sometimes controversial.
 In a memo sent on June 4, 1977, to Joseph A. Califano Jr., the secretary of Health, Education and Welfare at the time, Mr. Derzon suggested that the federal government adopt a ''living will'' law similar to one enacted by California. Living wills permit patients to authorize their doctors to terminate life-support systems when there is no chance for a cure or recovery. He also favored Medicaid financing of abortions for mothers on welfare. 
 Throughout his career, Mr. Derzon was a proponent of universal health care coverage. In 1969, when he was first deputy commissioner of New York City's Hospitals Department, he told a state legislative committee that the existing method of paying for health and hospital care was ''a disaster.''
 ''The vast majority of our population in suburban, urban and rural areas is not receiving convenient and economically produced quality health services,'' he said. Because of Medicaid cutbacks, he added, hospitals that had expanded health services to the poor in the city were ''on the brink of fiscal disaster.''
 Robert Alan Derzon was born in Milwaukee on Dec. 30, 1930, one of two sons of Matthew and Mildred Gordon Derzon. Mr. Derzon graduated from Dartmouth in 1953 and received a master's degree in 1955 from the Amos Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth. In 1956, he received a master's degree in public health administration from the University of Minnesota.
 From 1960 to 1966, Mr. Derzon was associate director of the New York University Medical Center. He was first deputy commissioner of New York's hospital department from 1966 to 1969 and acting commissioner in 1970. Before being appointed to the federal post, he was director of the University of California's medical school hospital in San Francisco.
 Mr. Derzon's wife of 54 years, the former Margo Harris, died in 2002. Besides his son Mike, he is survived by another son, James; a daughter, Andrea Merenluoto; his brother, Gordon; and nine grandchildren. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); LIVING WILLS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); HOSPITALS (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (84%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); MEDICAID (73%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); H1N1 INFLUENZA (72%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (67%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (66%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR MEDICARE & MEDICAID SERVICES (83%)

JIMMY CARTER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

CATEGORY: Medicine and Health, Politics and Government (U.S.) 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2009



724 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 563 words

HEADLINE: Shares Fall as Frugal Consumers Worry Investors

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Investors are nervous about the savings rate outpacing spending.
 Shares lost ground Friday after the Commerce Department said personal spending, incomes and savings all rose in May. 
 Spending rose by a modest 0.3 percent, but what was be worrisome for investors was a 6.9 percent jump in the savings rate to 6.9 percent, the highest level since December 1993 
 Just before the close, the Dow Jones industrial average was down 43 points, or 0.49 percent. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 0.27 percent. The Nasdaq composite index was a couple of points higher. 
 In Asia, Japan's Nikkei stock average rose 0.8 percent. European stocks lost earlier gains on Friday after the release of the spending report. The FTSE 100 in London closed down 0.3 percent at 4,241.01. The DAX in Frankfurt lost 0.5 percent to 4,776.47, and the CAC 40 in Paris fell 1 percent to 3,141.49.
 The surge in savings suggests that consumers are being shrewd with their money. But it is not great for the overall economy in the short-term.
 Phil Orlando, chief equity market strategist at Federated Investors, said he expected the savings rate to eventually hit 10 percent. The savings rate had been 5.6 percent in April, and annual savings rates were below 1 percent from 2005 through 2007.
 ''If people ramp up savings that aggressively, that is going to result in less G.D.P. recovery than ordinarily would be the case,'' Mr. Orlando said.
 Gross domestic product dropped at an annual rate of 5.5 percent in the first quarter, the government reported earlier this week. As the second half of 2009 draws to a close, investors are growing more anxious about whether the economy can bounce back later this year.
 It has been a choppy week for the stock market. After four days of losses, the Dow Jones industrial average rebounded by 2.1 percent on Thursday. Traders appeared eager to take some profits from that jump ahead of the weekend, analysts said.
 Government bond prices rose modestly. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note, which moves opposite its price, fell to 3.51 percent from 3.54 percent late Thursday.
 In the energy markets, retail gas prices have fallen every day this week, easing off their summer peak of $2.693 a gallon as storage facilities in the United States swelled with unused supplies.
 At the pump, the national average for gasoline dropped less than a penny Friday to $2.658 a gallon, according to auto club AAA, Wright Express and Oil Price Information Service.
 A gallon of gas added an average of 22.4 cents in the last month as prices surged for 54 straight days. But it is still cheaper than last year, when prices spiked above $4.
 Meanwhile, oil prices followed stock markets lower on Friday as a wave of speculative buyers looked for direction after the Federal Reserve said the struggling economy would hold back inflation this year.
 During the last few months, investors had snapped up crude barrels to protect themselves from a weaker dollar, helping oil prices rise to eight-month highs despite a huge surplus in the U.S.
 Benchmark crude fell $1.07 cents to settle at $69.16 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 Political turmoil in Iran and Nigeria also continued to put pressure on oil prices. Both countries are major oil producers, and a conflagration in Iran could affect millions of barrels of exports in the Persian Gulf.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); OIL & GAS PRICES (87%); BONDS (79%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (71%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (71%); BOND MARKETS (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (65%); GASOLINE PRICES (65%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (60%)

COMPANY: FEDERATED INVESTORS INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%)

TICKER: FII (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (55%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (76%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); ASIA (79%); FRANCE (76%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2009



725 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 738 words

HEADLINE: As Incomes Rebound, Saving Hits Highest Rate in 15 Years

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
Tax cuts from the stimulus package and increases in Social Security checks lifted personal incomes sharply in May, the government reported on Friday, but it appeared that many people were putting that money away instead of spending it.
 Although personal spending increased slightly last month, the saving rate climbed to its highest level in 15 years as consumers tried to build a buffer against the threat of job losses and more economic hardships.
The personal saving rate, which dipped below zero during the housing boom as Americans tapped home equity loans and other easy lines of credit, rose to 6.9 percent in May, the Commerce Department reported. That was its highest point since December 1993. 
 On Wall Street, investors saw little reason to cheer the increases in incomes or spending, and stocks ended mostly lower, undoing some of the gains from a day earlier. Stocks closed lower for a second week, offering more fodder to bearish investors who say that this spring's stock rally has largely run its course.
 The Dow Jones industrial average lost 34.01 points, or 0.4 percent, to close at 8,438.39 while the wider Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was 1.36 points, or 0.1 percent, lower at 918.9. Strength in technology stocks helped to lift the Nasdaq index 8.68 points, or 0.5 percent, higher, at 1,838.22.
 For the week, the Dow fell 1 percent, and the S.& P. 500 was little changed.
 Interest rates were steady. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note was up 1/32, to 96 19/32, and the yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, was at 3.54 percent, unchanged from late Thursday.
 As personal savings return to more normal levels, the increase prompts what economists call the ''paradox of thrift.''
 Although saving money helps individuals repair their finances and pay debts, a sharp rise in overall personal saving can actually deepen a recession and hurt the people who are saving more. As people save money, fewer dollars circulate through shopping malls, Main Street businesses, and large employers and subsequently back to workers through their paychecks. This thrift pulls the economy lower.
 Economists say the recent spike in personal saving is likely to fall back slightly as the effects of government stimulus fade, but they have said that Americans are becoming thriftier and are not likely to return to the free-spending patterns that fueled much of the growth of the last nine years.
 Steep declines in home values and individual stock portfolios have erased trillions of dollars in household wealth. The economist Joshua Shapiro of the consulting firm MFR noted that he was ''clearly seeing signs of households altering their behavior in the face of large capital losses in investment and real estate portfolios, an abysmal labor market and tight credit.''
 Still, while consumer spending did not increase last month as rapidly as savings, it did post a small increase. Personal consumption rose 0.3 percent in May after falling or remaining flat in the two previous months. 
 The rise in personal incomes, 1.4 percent, was an indication that money from the government's $787 billion stimulus program was beginning to flow through the American economy.
 ''That's the whole point -- put money back in the pockets of consumers and households, and they've accomplished that,'' Nariman Behravesh, chief economist at IHS Global Insight, said. ''The good news is, it's working. The question is, how much of this is a blip?''
 Although disposable personal income rose at a seasonally adjusted rate of $178.1 billion in May, the Commerce Department also reported that private wages and salaries had decreased $12.4 billion.
 Also, consumer attitudes rose for a fifth month in June, and were actually higher than in the period a year ago, when gasoline prices were peaking and the struggling economy was heading for a steep drop. The Reuters-University of Michigan consumer survey reported Friday that sentiment rose to 70.8 in June, up from 68.7 a month earlier.
 But many consumers are still living on the edge. A majority said their financial situation had deteriorated in June as they either lost jobs, worked fewer hours or otherwise saw their incomes decline, according to the survey. 
 The recession has already erased some six million jobs since December 2007, and economists expect the losses to continue through the rest of the year, despite the effects of the stimulus package. 

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
Bloomberg)
 Personal Income: Total personal income before taxes, at a seasonally adjusted annual pace.(Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); SAVINGS RATES (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (79%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (79%); TAXES & TAXATION (79%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RECESSION (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); DEBT NOTES (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (76%); CONSUMER LENDING (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (75%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (75%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); TREASURY SECURITIES (75%); HOME PRICES (75%); INTEREST RATES (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); RETAILERS (71%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (70%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2009



726 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 906 words

HEADLINE: Stoking Fears, Bombs in Baghdad's 3rd Straight Day of Violence Kill About a Dozen

BYLINE: By SAM DAGHER and ALISSA J. RUBIN; Abeer Mohammed and Steven Lee Myers contributed reporting from Baghdad, and Iraqi employees of The New York Times from Basra and Najaf.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD 

 BODY:
A bomb placed in a motorbike exploded at an outdoor market in Baghdad on Friday, killing about a dozen people and wounding scores. It marked the third straight day of violence in the capital before the Tuesday deadline for American combat troops to withdraw from Iraqi cities.
 After another similar bombing outside a billiard hall in Baghdad later on Friday that killed two people and wounded seven, the authorities ordered all motorbikes off the streets indefinitely. 
 Nearly 200 people were killed and hundreds were wounded in attacks over the past week in Baghdad and elsewhere in the country, with the deadliest attacks aimed at Shiites. The violence has raised fears of a new bout of sectarian warfare of the sort that ripped Iraq apart in 2005, and that could lead Iraqis once again to seek the protection of militias and armed groups instead of government forces.
 The reaction by Shiite leaders echoed those concerns.
 The bombing on Friday ripped through a market for new and secondhand motorbikes held each week under a bridge in the working-class neighborhood of Nahdha in central Baghdad.
 The bomb was placed in a motorbike, Iraqi Army officers at the scene said, killing 10 and wounding 12. The officers spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were prohibited from speaking to reporters. Later in the day, an official at the Interior Ministry said at least 13 had been killed and 45 were wounded. 
 ''Their bodies were torn up to pieces, even their next of kin could not identify them,'' an enraged Iraqi soldier said. ''It is Iraqi blood, but it is cheap,'' he added, pointing to a pool of blood.
 The wreckage of motorbikes was piled on the back of a police pickup truck.
 Many angry onlookers at the scene said that Iraqi forces were to blame because of their lax approach and infiltration in their ranks by insurgents.
 The same Iraqi Army unit is responsible for Nahdha and the nearby Shiite district of Sadr City, where a bombing killed 76 people at a crowded market on Wednesday night.
 In Sadr City, hundreds crowded the street outside the local office of Moktada al-Sadr, the anti-American cleric, to attend Friday Prayer and to listen to a sermon given by one of Mr. Sadr's aides.
 In a statement read by the preacher Harith Adthari, Mr. Sadr blamed the Americans for the explosions, saying they bore ''the fingerprints of the occupation,'' and he urged people to help the loyal Iraqi security forces. He also noted that some infiltrators had penetrated the ranks of the Iraqi forces, and that they must be weeded out.
 The prayer, which was attended by larger crowds than in many recent weeks, ended with a spontaneous demonstration in which marchers poured down one of Sadr City's main streets shouting: ''No, no to America. No, no to occupation. No, no to terrorism.''
 That was followed by: ''Yes for independence. Yes for peace.''
 Mr. Sadr's followers held similar gatherings in the southern cities of Najaf and Basra.
 Although a few people burned a United States flag in Baghdad, the general mood, albeit tense, was less inflamed than it had been at times. Mr. Sadr's statement counseled his followers to be patient, to pursue ''peaceful resistance'' and to not give ''others the excuse to attack you.'' His message to the Iraqi government focused on ''forcing out followers of the occupation and Baathists,'' members of Saddam Hussein's former ruling party.
 Afterward people who listened to the sermon seemed certain that the Americans were responsible for the bombing on Wednesday. They also agreed that Sadr City was a safer place when the Mahdi Army militia handled the security.
 ''All the problems here are American; the whole plan of withdrawal is a game,'' said Laith al-Saadi, a pediatrician. ''There is no withdrawal. They will still have their agents here, Iraqis and people from neighboring countries.'' 
 Hamid Jassim, 24, interjected: ''Before, we protected our own neighborhood and other neighborhoods in Iraq. We have many unemployed young men who can start to take care of this job.'' He said they would not do that for now, since the Iraqi security forces were doing that job.
 It was unclear though how long the restraint called for in Mr. Sadr's statement would last, or what it would take to undermine the resolve of Sadrist leaders to keep their movement nonviolent.
 ''We've seen an attack on innocent people in order to stimulate the ethno-sectarian violence that was really a large problem in this country in the last couple of years,'' the chief American military spokesman, Brig. Gen. Stephen R. Lanza, told reporters this week. ''What's important to understand is the people have not responded to this.''
 He, like other commanders and Iraqi officials, warned of a rise in attacks around the withdrawal deadline, but he said the pace of violence remained on a downward trend.
 But Sheik Hamid al-Mualla, a Shiite cleric and member of Parliament, said there were Sunni extremists backed by forces within some neighboring Arab gulf states like Saudi Arabia who were doing their utmost to rekindle Iraq's sectarian violence.
 ''I criticize the Arab silence toward the massacres that are happening in our country,'' he said in a sermon at Buratha Mosque in Baghdad.
 In a statement on Thursday, the prime minister, Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, said Arab states had to take a ''clear and definitive stance toward these horrific crimes, because silence is no longer acceptable.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A follower of the anti-American cleric Moktada al-Sadr, seen through a religious banner, attended Friday Prayer in Baghdad.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MOISES SAMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); ARMIES (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (78%); FINGERPRINTING (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%)

PERSON: MOQTADA AL-SADR (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (98%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2009



727 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; LEXINGTON AVENUE JOURNAL; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1097 words

HEADLINE: A Shopping District That Takes You Back in Time

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

 BODY:
Lexington Avenue on the Upper East Side is a place where you can get your shoes resoled, your hair cut and your clothes dry-cleaned by someone who remembers your name and face and sometimes even your birthday.
 There are three independent bookshops, four shoe-repair shops and three barbershops -- one, York, has been there since 1928 and has the hand-clippers and shaving mugs to prove it. Then there are the retail rarities, like a custom bootmaker who charges $2,000 for basic men's shoes, or more for a pair in alligator or hippopotamus. 
 ''It feels Old World -- with small spaces that are human size,'' said Kirk Gerchberg, manager of Henry Miller Opticians, an eyeglasses shop older than the eyes of Doctor T. J. Eckleburg in ''The Great Gatsby.'' ''All these places have a personality. Walk in and there's some flavor. It may be to your liking or not, but there's a flavor. In big spaces, it's plain vanilla.'' 
 The store's customers, he said, are well educated and ''want to speak with someone who's knowledgeable and will help them.'' 
 Between 61st and 62nd Streets is Lexington Hardware, a store established in 1929 whose narrow, teeming aisles would not feel out of place in proletarian precincts of the Bronx. Its owner, Cliff Kahn, 37, is the great-grandson of the store's Russian immigrant founder.
 ''I personally have been here 15 years, and very few things have come and gone on the block, and the customers are pretty much the same,'' he said. ''Service is a big thing. People come in with a list, and you go and get it for them instead of their going to Aisle 17.''
 Such service, the shopkeepers say, stirs a loyalty that keeps customers coming back, good times and bad, rather than seeking out a supermarket or a Home Depot. 
 There are theories galore about how the avenue, despite citywide pressures to build tall and boxy, has retained its intimate mom-and-pop scale and grace while other commercial avenues along the Upper East Side have been transformed: Madison Avenue below 72nd Street has turned into a mall-like stretch of international designers, while Second and Third Avenues are increasingly flanked by glass high-rises whose ground floors house restaurants, bars and more than a few national retailers. 
 Deconstructing Lexington, city officials cite the preponderance of brownstones and stout but short apartment buildings with small commercial spaces; the avenue's narrowness; the flinty loyalty of customers; the relative affordability of rents. Others point out that Lexington, by default, has long been the neighborhood shopping street for the affluent and generally older residents of the side streets and residential avenues, like Fifth and Park.
 Mr. Gerchberg, the manager of Henry Miller Opticians, points out that unlike Second and Third Avenues, Lexington never had an elevated subway line. When those were torn down, those avenues became ripe for high-rise development.
 ''What's kept Lexington Avenue like it is is that the buildings haven't changed that much,'' Mr. Gerchberg said. ''The buildings are not that new and not that tall.''
 Whatever the explanation, residents worry that Lexington's humble days may be numbered. On the corner of 86th Street, a 17-story building is being completed that will feature an H & M clothing store. That newcomer was absorbed with comparative stoicism because 86th Street has always been a bustling thoroughfare, and already has a Barnes & Noble, a Petco and a Best Buy. 
 In December, the Kean House, a baronial 1920s stucco mansion at 65th Street, was torn down. Landmarks officials had determined in June 2008 that it did not merit protection, but critics say the owner had destroyed significant architectural flourishes while the commission dawdled. Now a new apartment house is expected to rise to the full zoning limit of 17 stories, and it may also house a large retailer. 
 ''You do wonder whether this will be a game-changer for the neighborhood,'' said Scott M. Stringer, the Manhattan borough president, who issued a report in January recommending strategies to retain mom-and-pops. 
 Concern about development is why Friends of the Upper East Side Historic District is seeking to designate two more stretches of the avenue for preservation -- roughly 61st to 65th Street and 71st to 75th Street. On Tuesday, the Landmarks Preservation Commission scheduled hearings for the fall on designating most of the requested sites, which advocates took as a hopeful sign of the commission's predilection.
 ''We're trying to preserve the historic architecture of Lexington Avenue, but a happy side effect is maintaining the mom-and-pop shops,'' said Seri Worden, executive director of the Friends group.
 At Albert & Son, Robert Moffa slices the steaks by hand just as his father did after he founded the store in 1961. A machine ''tears everything up,'' Mr. Moffa said.
 ''A lot of my customers I've known since I was 8 or 9 years old, and I'm 50,'' he said.
 Tru-Form Shoes, now between 64th and 65th Streets, has been around in one spot or another under one name or another since 1878 (it began as Oliver Moore Bootmaker). The Carolinas-accented Paul Moorefield, who owns the store with Joan Silverman, may be the only shoemaker in town who wears a tie and a stainless white apron. The staff of 12 turns out just 20 pairs of shoes a week and spends an hour or so fitting each customer's feet for a pair of permanent lasts -- an extra $1,000. Custom calfskin women's shoes start at $1,200.
 The shop's customers have included David Rockefeller, James Gandolfini, Katharine Hepburn and a Saudi prince or two. The wealth of his customers, Mr. Moorefield said, makes the store ''recession proof.'' 
 There are two Starbucks outlets and a Duane Reade, but they're near subway stops like the busy 77th Street station next to Lenox Hill Hospital. The avenue has several one-of-a-kind pharmacies like J. Leon Lascoff, which, as its sign says, was established in 1899.Neil's Coffee Shop, with its oblique red neon sign, has been around for 50 years. It latest owner, Nick Kaloudis, theorizes that some landlords prefer Lexington's breed of small stores.
 ''If you have two stores in your building and one is empty, you're in trouble,'' he said. ''If have five stores and one is empty you're still O.K.'' 
 The avenue charmed Valery Tsarikovsky, 56, an oil painter, into putting his easel up the other day at 82nd Street when he wanted to paint a streetscape.
 ''Lexington Avenue has a nostalgic feel,'' he said. ''It looks like Europe, it looks like Paris. Where else do you find a subject like that?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Valery Tsarikovsky painted a streetscape at 82nd Street. He likes the area's ''nostalgic feel.''
 Old school: Paul Moorefield of Tru-Form Shoes and Kirk Gerchberg of Henry Miller Opticians. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (89%); FOOTWEAR (78%); SHOE & LEATHER REPAIR (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); OPTICAL GOODS STORES (77%); RESTAURANTS (77%); HOME CENTERS (76%); OPHTHALMIC GOODS (74%); BARBER SHOPS (73%); BOOKSTORES (72%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (71%); IMMIGRATION (64%); GRANDCHILDREN (64%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (61%); CITIES (60%); DRINKING PLACES (60%); CITY GOVERNMENT (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2009



728 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 888 words

HEADLINE: Scholarships for College Dwindle as Providers Pull Back Their Support

BYLINE: By JONATHAN D. GLATER

 BODY:
Students looking for college scholarships are going to have a harder time this year as providers, hammered by falling investment returns and declining philanthropic support, cut back.
 The Fulfillment Fund, a nonprofit that works with Los Angeles public high school students, has reduced the number of college scholarships offered over the last three years by nearly half and has tightened requirements students must meet, said Maria T. Espinosa, director of program operations. 
 The Davis United World College Scholars Program, which last year began paying $20,000 per scholarship recipient at colleges that had at least five scholarship winners enrolled, has cut the amount in half, returning to pre-2008 levels. 
 ''We've just been boxed in by circumstances we didn't anticipate,'' said Philip O. Geier, the program's executive director, adding that he hoped to increase the scholarship payments in the future. 
 The recession has led foundations, corporations, state governments and colleges themselves to reduce their support of providers of scholarships, and in recent months programs have been reduced or canceled outright. The cuts come as economic conditions make it harder for families to pay for college and as more unemployed people look for financing for retraining.
 The result will probably be a greater role for federal aid programs in supporting students, instead of private scholarship providers and state governments, said Terry W. Hartle, senior vice president for government and public affairs at the American Council on Education, whose members are colleges and universities.
 ''What you're seeing are some shifts taking place,'' Mr. Hartle said. Over all, there may be more aid money available as federal aid programs expand, he continued, ''but some individuals may find themselves in much worse situations this year than last year.''
 State grant programs have also taken a beating. In Pennsylvania, the maximum amount available to resident college students has fallen to $4,120, from about $4,700 last year, according to the Pennsylvania Higher Education Assistance Agency. California, confronting a severe budget crisis, is weighing the shutdown of a state scholarship program benefiting hundreds of thousands of students. The New York Times Company, which offers the Times College Scholarship to New York City high school students, this year cut the number of scholarships it provided to 12, from 20, according to a spokeswoman.
 No one has a complete list of all scholarship providers, let alone a database that tracks how much money those providers pay out every year. But companies that administer and track scholarships say that a downward trend is clear. 
 According to Scholarship America, a nonprofit company that administers scholarship programs for about 1,200 providers, less money is available for students. Meantime, the number of applications is rising, said Janine Fugate, a spokeswoman.
 ACT, a nonprofit company that manages and designs scholarship programs for foundations and companies, has seen a decline of just under 5 percent in total scholarship dollars available, according to a spokesman. 
 Peterson's, an online college preparation site owned by the student loan company Nelnet, found that although the number of scholarships rose to 1.7 million in 2008, from 1.4 million a year earlier, the average amount awarded fell nearly 7 percent, to $4,300 from $4,607.
 The numbers are tricky -- more new, smaller scholarships could drive down the average award without proving that older, established scholarships have declined in size, experts said. Also, the numbers reflect the maximum award amount and would not capture a scholarship provider's decision, say, to offer less money for some reason. Providers do not report what they actually pay to recipients.
 FastWeb, which claims to have the nation's largest database of scholarships, has not detected a decline in the total dollar amount of scholarships available this year, said Mark Kantrowitz, publisher of FinAid.org and FastWeb.com, both units of the job search company Monster.
 ''Currently we have $3.1 billion in scholarships,'' which is about the same amount as last year, Mr. Kantrowitz said. With less money thrown off by endowments and contributed by donors, scholarship providers must make difficult choices. Should current scholarship recipients have their awards renewed, at the expense of new applicants? Should scholarship amounts be reduced so that the same number of students can benefit? Should the size of awards be protected, but their number cut? 
 ''We set the priority, with the limited funds we have, of funding the renewals first,'' said Kristin Shear, director of student financial services at Santa Rosa Junior College, in California. 
 The college has suspended accepting applications for the Frank P. Doyle Scholarship, named after an executive of a local banking chain and supported by the bank's dividends. The bank stopped paying dividends last year.
 ''We have contracted the program, and when dividends and distributions return, we'll expand,'' Ms. Shear said. ''It's just a question of when it will come back.''
 Timothy G. Snow, president of the George Snow Scholarship Fund, based in Boca Raton, Fla., said, ''Common sense is telling us that we're going to see less money coming in.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (96%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (92%); FOUNDATIONS (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); CHARITIES (90%); PHILANTHROPY (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (88%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (79%); HIGH SCHOOLS (79%); TRENDS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GRANTS & GIFTS (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (63%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN COUNCIL ON EDUCATION (54%)

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (63%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (63%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2009



729 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; PATIENT MONEY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1376 words

HEADLINE: Getting Insurance for One's Frailest Years

BYLINE: By WALECIA KONRAD

 BODY:
IN our house, we talk a lot about long-term care. My dad is 92 and afflicted by dementia and failing eyesight. 
 Luckily, I'm blessed with three wonderful siblings who do the hard work of caring for my father and making sure he can stay in his own home in suburban Detroit. But my visits from Brooklyn to spell my siblings are becoming increasingly complex, as my father needs more care and loses track of exactly who I am. 
 Meanwhile, all four of us share the financial burden of the extras that his limited budget and health insurance don't cover: a part-time home care attendant, various prescription drugs not covered by his insurance, physical therapy sessions and endless incidentals like a new jacket or sheets and towels. We're all happy to pitch in, but the costs add up quickly. 
 Like many people with elderly parents, I can't help thinking there must be some way I can make sure my 8-year-old son doesn't someday end up in the same situation when my husband and I need assistance. As one fellow boomer said recently, ''I want someone to care about me when I'm older, but not necessarily care for me.'' 
 Long-term care insurance, something that wasn't so common back when my dad could have bought it, seems like one solution. These policies are offered as a way to pay for a nursing home, assisted living, home health care and other costs associated with growing older. But where to begin? The policies are expensive, complicated and have a severely flawed history. And let's face it, it's hard to shop for something I hope I won't need for another 30 or 40 years. 
 So I turned to experts, to answer some of the most pressing long-term care insurance questions.
 Q.Why should I buy this insurance? Don't Medicare and Medicaid cover long-term care? 
 A. That's what many people think, said Russell Fox, a certified financial planner and managing director of Apex Wealth Management, a financial planning firm in Oxnard, Calif. But the reality is, Medicare pays for only short-term medical care at home or for a limited stay in a nursing home after a hospitalization. 
 Medicaid pays for long-term care -- but not until people have already spent the majority of their financial assets. 
 ''You can have a situation where a married couple spends down all their assets for the husband, which leaves the wife in a vulnerable financial situation should she outlive her spouse,'' Mr. Fox explained. 
 A good long-term care insurance can help protect assets, as well as pay for expenses. 
 Q.I'm only in my 50s. I don't need to worry about this insurance yet, right?
 A. Actually that is a good age to start thinking about a policy, advises Marilee Kern Driscoll, author of a newsletter on long-term care insurance. LTC123.com If you wait until you are in your 60s and health problems have set in, you may not qualify for any policy. And premiums are slightly lower when you buy younger. 
 Typically people in their early 50s will pay $2,000 a year, depending on the length and type of coverage, compared with an average of $2,250 a year for someone age 60 to 64. True, you'll be making those payments for a longer number of years. And premiums may go up as much as 10 percent a decade over the life of the policy, Ms. Driscoll notes. 
 Q.What should I look for in a policy?
 A. Under almost all policies, coverage will kick in if you can't perform certain activities of daily living -- like walking, eating or bathing -- because of a physical or cognitive impairment. 
 Verify that the coverage will start if you can't perform any one of the above activities -- not necessarily all three. For example, someone may well be able to eat after they are too frail to walk or bath unassisted. 
 Once a policyholder meets the definition of a triggering event, the kind of care that is covered varies widely. Make sure yours provides for the following:
 All types of care. That includes nursing homes, assisted living centers and home health care attendants. Most policies do provide for all three types of care. But it's important to make sure your policy does. 
 Claims have also been denied because insurers say a particular nursing home or other long-term care facility doesn't qualify for coverage, leaving policyholders responsible for huge bills after they've already become a resident. Be sure to check that the policy you are considering doesn't include overly narrow restrictions.
 All types of caretakers. Some policies cover only ''skilled'' home health care workers, like registered nurses. But you want to be able to pay for home health care attendants and the person who comes in to make meals and do light cleaning, too. Look for a policy that pays for ''skilled, intermediate and custodial care,'' said Mr. Fox.
 A wide range of illnesses and injuries. Not too long ago, policies routinely excluded coverage for Alzheimer's and dementia, two of what are now the most common reasons for seeking long-term care. In addition, several insurers came under fire a couple of years ago for denying claims for care that were clearly covered in their policies. 
 Increasing state regulation and rising demand from boomers has forced the $8 billion industry to clean up some since then, ''but there are still some policies out there that exclude far more than they cover,'' Mr. Fox said. Your best defense is this: Read your policy carefully for any health-related exclusions or other reasons to deny coverage. 
 Inflation protection. You want coverage, at the very least, that will increase the daily benefit amount enough to keep pace with inflation. Without this protection, 20 years out your benefits may not cover your expenses, and you'll have to make up the difference. 
 Q.This insurance is expensive. What can I do to get more for my money? 
 A. Unfortunately, long-term care insurance is more costly than ever. That's because insurers in past years did a poor job of anticipating how much they would be paying in nursing home and other long-term care costs. They also overestimated the number of people who would let their insurance lapse. 
 Now, the insurers are scrambling to make up for these actuarial shortcomings by charging higher rates for new policyholders. And as it turns out, insurers can raise rates on existing policyholders as long as state regulators approve the increase. (The states have often done this in the past, although some are now showing signs of resistance.) 
 To lessen the sting, try the following: 
 Avoid lifetime benefits. Opt instead for a policy that covers a set amount of time, like four or five years, suggests Ms. Driscoll. The average nursing home stay is two to three years, she points out, and only 12 percent of patients live longer than five years once they enter.
 Look for a policy that pays a monthly sum. Most policies specify a daily benefit -- anywhere from $50 to $500. Recently insurers have begun using a monthly amount so you have the flexibility to receive more care on some days, when no family member is available, for example, and less care on others. 
 Consider a front-loaded policy. With these, you pay the entire cost of the premiums before you retire. You'll pay more upfront, but payments will end just as your income decreases. 
 Look into cash benefit policies. Once benefit payments kick in, these policies will send you a regular cash payment, say $200 a week. Instead of filing claims for specific care (with specific requirements to qualify for coverage) you are free to use the payout however you see fit.
 You may still pay the nursing home or home health care attendant with the money when the need arises. But you can also use the cash to pay a family member for care, pay travel expenses for a visiting relative and take care of other expenses that would not be reimbursed under a traditional policy. You'll pay more for these policies, but some families find the extra flexibility is worth it. 
 Find a good agent. You'll need someone who is experienced in long-term care, Ms. Driscoll says. This might be the same insurance agent who sold you your life and auto policy, or you may need to find a specialist. Either way, make sure the person fully understands your needs and is active enough to be selling at least a dozen policies a year. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The author, Walecia Konrad, and her son, Stephen, who holds a photograph of Ms. Konrad's father, now 92.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (89%); NURSING HOMES (89%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (89%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (89%); LONG TERM CARE INSURANCE (89%); EYE DISORDERS & INJURIES (78%); ASSISTED LIVING SERVICES (78%); DEMENTIA (78%); BUDGETS (75%); MEDICARE (75%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); HOME HEALTH CARE (71%); MEDICAID (70%); HEALTH CARE (69%); PHYSICAL THERAPY (69%); MARRIAGE (66%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (60%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2009



730 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1439 words

HEADLINE: Et Tu, AARP? Good Guys Cut 401(k)s, Too

BYLINE: By RON LIEBER

 BODY:
It's been a truly ugly year for just about everyone saving money in a retirement account at work. 
 First came the stock market collapse, tempered only a bit by the rebound of the last few months. Then, struggling employers of all sorts decided to suspend or eliminate part or all of their matching contributions to workers' 401(k) and similar plans -- companies like Xerox and Black & Decker and nonprofit groups like PBS and the Austin Museum of Art in Texas.
 This happened in other recessions, so it was entirely (if sadly) predictable. But the big surprise this time came when the AARP decided to suspend its 401(k) match for at least nine months. Yes, the same AARP that used to refer to itself as the American Association of Retired Persons.
 Given its track record of fighting for the financial rights of retirees, it seems shocking that the organization would turn around and take from its own 2,200 or so employees what they'd hoped would be a big pile of matching money. It's almost as if the Teamsters decided to build a new national headquarters and hired nonunion labor to do it. 
 So the AARP's move raises an achingly obvious nonrhetorical question:
 How could they?
 One way to look at this is that the AARP is only doing what many prudent organizations would do -- and have already done. 
 According to a recent study by the Grant Thornton compensation and benefits consulting practice, 29 percent of employers have altered or intend to alter their 401(k) match this year. Two-thirds of those will eliminate it (often temporarily), 22 percent will reduce it and 11 percent will bump it up. The Pension Rights Center maintains a list of employers that have downgraded their matches (one of the fact sheets under ''Pension Publications'' at www.pensionrights.org). 
 Why cut the match? Well, when you suffer financially you need to try to contain your costs, even if you're a nonprofit like the AARP. The AARP is making its cuts to improve its depleted financial reserves, so that it is prepared for any future financial collapse. 
 ''We were not immune to the economic crisis, and we needed to respond as well,'' said David Certner, AARP's legislative counsel and policy director. ''We didn't take this lightly.'' Indeed, AARP has made all sorts of other cuts elsewhere in the organization. It bought out some employees and dismissed others. Remaining workers are taking furlough days. It has cut ads, research and publication costs, too. 
 But still, these are supposed to be the good guys. The AARP has been on the right side of so many financial issues, from pushing for credit card reform to fighting for a temporary freeze on mandatory retirement account withdrawals so as to avoid forcing people to sell at the worst possible moment. So how can it cut the retirement benefits of its own workers without undermining its brand?
 In fact, the group sees its good-guy status as part of its justification for suspending the 401(k) match. How? Well, the $7 million or so it expects to save by not matching employee retirement contributions this year allows it to avoid laying off even more employees. Some of the workers whose jobs it saved are out on the front lines fighting for you and me and the organization's 40 million members in the halls of Congress.
 In its defense, the AARP also notes that it still maintains an old-fashioned pension for its employees. That is a good (and increasingly rare) thing. And AARP, like many employers, has to make a huge deposit into its plan this year to make up for losses in 2008. That also ratchets up the financial pressure.
 Still, for a pension plan to do any good at all, employees need to work for an organization long enough to benefit, and some AARP employees will not stick around that long. Also, the plan itself will need to survive. The cynic in me thinks that the AARP will probably freeze the pension plan before too long, as so many other employers have, though Mr. Certner says that option is not currently under consideration. 
 The biggest problem with AARP's move -- and this is the case with any employer that suspends a match, even absent AARP's specific mission -- is that it can punish high-performing employees disproportionately. 
 This isn't how AARP sees it. ''Everyone is sharing in the burden equally,'' Mr. Certner said. ''It's a tradeoff of jobs versus benefits. We're making sure people still have a job. That was our first priority.''
 That is noble. But is it fair? Put yourself in the shoes of high performers at AARP or any organization, say an employee who's played a big role in adding new revenue during a horrible year. Why should they have to take a personal financial hit to preserve the job of a less valuable colleague?
 An employee like this might be doubly harmed, in fact. The reason companies started matching 401(k) contributions in the first place was to help meet legal rules that require highly paid and low-paid employees to participate in the plans in roughly equal fashion. And a match is often the only reason that lower-paid workers save at all. 
 So if you take that match away, lower-paid employees may stop saving -- or never sign up for the plan in the first place. And once the plan is out of balance, the federal rules may restrict the amount that higher paid (and higher performing) employees can save out of their own pockets and enforce a cap thousands of dollars below the usual $16,500 annual contribution limit.
 And if those high performers are young? Well, they're triply harmed, since the more you save at a younger age in a 401(k) plan the more time the money has to grow and compound. 
 So if you're at the top of your game, and especially if you're younger, you have to wonder: Shouldn't my employer get rid of a few more people who aren't accomplishing much so that I can maintain my retirement benefits? And if it won't, shouldn't I find someplace else to work?
 Some employers have a tough time with this way of framing the issue, since they believe that all of their employees are above average. Others, like the AARP, don't want to cut into muscle. ''We're trying not to reduce staffing levels below what we think is necessary to accomplish our mission,'' Mr. Certner said. Continuing the organization's work at its current level, he added, ought to be a higher priority than nine months of matching on employee retirement accounts. 
 Would the mission suffer that much, however, if the AARP let a few more workers go? It could have held a secret ballot vote to ask its employees their opinion, so that its high performers could have had a voice in the decision. But it didn't.
 So let's hold our own vote in the comments on this story at nytimes.com/yourmoney. If you work for AARP or another employer that has cut its 401(k) match, do you wish it had shed more people to preserve the match on your retirement account? Or are you happy to save less for retirement so that others may continue working in the next row of cubicles? Your comment can appear anonymously, if you wish.
 Before you cast your ballot, consider this. Earlier this year may well have been the worst possible moment to take retirement money away from employees. After all, when markets fall sharply, stocks are on sale. That's the time to save more, not less.
 How much might this move cost AARP employees and others like them over time? I asked the accounting firm Berdon to run some numbers, looking at two hypothetical 40-year-old employees who had a $100,000 401(k) balance on April 1, 2009, and earn $100,000 a year. They will save $10,000 this year and increase that by $500 each year. They'll earn a 6 percent rate of return from the beginning of 2010 until retirement at age 65. 
 Turnsout that the difference isn't that big: the employee who gets the match for those nine months ends up with a bit under $13,000 more than the other worker, according to Berdon's calculations. But take someone saving for 35 years instead of 25 and earning 8 percent annually instead of 6. That person would have just over $46,000 more upon retirement with that nine-month match at the beginning. 
 Given the impact, the AARP did not take this decision lightly. And it says it intends to reverse it as early as Jan. 1 and restore the match, in the hope that other employers will follow its lead. ''It's not easy to return to something once you've stopped it and gone through whatever P.R. problem or heartache,'' Mr. Certner said. ''Hopefully, we can play a leadership role in that regard.''
 Here's hoping it will. But if I worked there, I'm not sure I would have wanted to share the financial pain in the first place. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ROBERT NEUBECKER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US 401K PLANS (91%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (91%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (78%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (78%); FUNDRAISING (76%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%)

COMPANY: GRANT THORNTON INTERNATIONAL LTD (54%)

ORGANIZATION: AARP INC (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (54%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2009



731 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1020 words

HEADLINE: Health Care: No Shortage of Ideas

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''The Prescription From Obama's Own Doctor,'' by Nicholas D. Kristof (column, June 25):
 Not only has President Obama shown that American Medical Association physicians are integral to health reform, but poll after poll shows that the American people trust physicians to do the right thing on reform as well. And they should.
 The A.M.A. has invested more than $15 million in our Voice for the Uninsured campaign over the last few years to call attention to the uninsured crisis and lay the groundwork for health reform that gets all Americans covered. 
 President Obama chose to give his major health reform speech to A.M.A. physicians at our annual meeting. Afterward, the White House issued a statement saying that it looks forward to working with the A.M.A. as the health reform process moves forward. 
 I appeared on a prime-time television special this week at the White House, where the president thanked the A.M.A. and said he had a terrific exchange of ideas at our meeting. 
 It's disappointing that critics mischaracterize the A.M.A. and our quarter-million physician and medical student members. As the nation's largest physician organization, we have made it perfectly clear that we are committed to health reform to give all Americans affordable, high-quality health coverage this year.
 J. James Rohack President American Medical Association Chicago, June 25, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Re ''The Only Public Health Plan We Need,'' by David Riemer and Alain Enthoven (Op-Ed, June 25): 
 Many health care proposals include the idea of an ''exchange'' in which individuals can choose among alternative health plans. While an excellent idea, care must be taken in designing exchanges.
 There are two major threats. One is that the minimum benefit package that exchanges require plans to offer is set too high for people to afford. Exchanges should require that plans cover at least inpatient care and chronic illnesses, but allow flexibility in exactly what services are needed to address those problems. 
 The second threat is that plans will seek to attract low-risk people and avoid the sick. This can be addressed behind the scenes with risk-adjustment techniques, but few exchanges will be up to this task.
 Exchanges will work better if they require all participating plans to buy into a major risk pool. 
 Such a pool could also capture and report data on cost and quality to inform consumers and offer new payment methods for clinicians to improve their own efficiency in delivering care.
 Harold S. Luft San Francisco, June 25, 2009
 The writer, a health economist, is professor emeritus in health policy at the University of California, San Francisco, and author of ''Total Cure: The Antidote to the Health Care Crisis.'' 
 To the Editor:
 Health care is not a commodity! The demand curve for health care is perfectly inelastic. 
 People do not make health care decisions based on ''efficiency'' or ''cost.'' They make health care decisions based on what they believe will keep them alive, and no amount of cost pressure is going to change that. 
 All the talk of should we have a public option boils down to one thing: Do you believe quality health care is a fundamental human right? If you believe this, then cost becomes irrelevant; if you don't, then it means you are willing to let people die of treatable conditions.
 M. Adrian Mattocks Charlotte, N.C., June 25, 2009
 To the Editor:
 The seemingly generous offer by drug companies to discount brand-name drugs to Medicare beneficiaries (''Federal Saving From Lowering of Drug Prices Is Unclear,'' news article, June 23) should be viewed by policy makers with caution.
 This apparent ''olive branch'' may actually be a Trojan horse intended to avert government regulation of drug prices.
 While discounted prices would save the elderly considerable out-of-pocket expense, the drug makers' concession falls short of assuring them affordable drug coverage and offers questionable savings for the federal government.
 By empowering Medicare to negotiate drug prices with manufacturers (in the same way that the Veterans Health Administration currently does) and by preventing brand-name drug companies from delaying or interfering with market entry of lower-cost generic drugs, President Obama and Congress would give greater relief to senior citizens facing high prescription drug costs and would also serve the interests of American taxpayers.
 Alan B. Cohen Boston, June 23, 2009
 The writer is a professor of health policy and management and executive director of the Boston University Health Policy Institute.
 To the Editor:
 Re ''A Public Health Plan'' (editorial, June 21):
 I take issue with some of your editorial's statements regarding the health reform debate. 
 You say that ''a public plan would have lower administrative expenses than private plans.'' 
 Private insurance plans average about 12 percent in administrative costs. While Medicare is always cited as a model of administrative efficiency at approximately 5 percent, it is a poor example because it is administered by the private sector, not the federal government.
 A much better example would be government health programs like Medicaid, Champus and state CHIPs that are administered by federal, state and municipal authorities. These plans average 26 percent in administrative costs, according to a 2008 Congressional Budget Office study.
 You also claim that a public plan would have ''no need to generate big profits,'' with the implication that insurance companies are cash machines operating on huge profit margins. Nothing could be further from the truth. 
 According to a 2006 PricewaterhouseCoopers analysis, 86 cents of every premium dollar goes directly toward paying for medical services. Eleven cents goes to administrative costs. This leaves 3 cents for profit.
 Why do we continue to focus our attention on trying to fix something that isn't broken with money we don't have, only to saddle our future generations with the bill?
 Pete Petersen Des Plaines, Ill., June 21, 2009
 The writer is an employee benefits consultant for small employers. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING: (DRAWING BY MORGAN ELLIOTT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (92%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); WRITERS (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); CHRONIC DISEASES (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (68%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (66%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (53%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (65%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2009



732 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 697 words

HEADLINE: Envoy to Coordinate North Korea Sanctions

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Hoping to give more teeth to international sanctions against North Korea, the Obama administration has named a senior diplomat to lead a task force coordinating Washington's political, military and financial measures against its government.
 The diplomat, Philip S. Goldberg, will travel soon to China and other countries to drum up support for the sanctions, which are aimed at strangling North Korea's access to the international financial system and its shipments of missile and nuclear parts, administration officials said Friday.
 ''Now we have some very powerful tools, and the challenge is to make effective use of them,'' said one official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the administration had not detailed its plans. But he acknowledged, ''It's going to take time to actually have a bite.'' 
 The United States has yet to test the more sweeping sanctions passed by the United Nations Security Council against North Korea two weeks ago. However, a Navy destroyer currently tracking a North Korean freighter in the South China Sea, near Hong Kong, could provide the first test. Officials say the ship is suspected of carrying cargo banned by the United Nations.
 But American officials have been tight-lipped about whether they plan to intercept the ship, and there is a widespread belief among experts that it is easier, and less risky, to punish the North by going after its money rather than its ships. North Korea has said it will consider interdiction an act of war.
 The administration is focusing much of its efforts on freezing assets and cutting off financial flows that support North Korea's trade in weapons, missiles and nuclear technology. These efforts are being led by Stuart A. Levey, an under secretary of the Treasury, who was one of the few senior members of the Bush administration to be held over by President Obama.
 The appointment of Mr. Goldberg is intended partly to head off the kind of turf battles that have grown out of Mr. Levey's actions. For example, in 2005, the Treasury Department moved against an obscure bank based in Macao that handled transactions for the North Korean government, a campaign widely regarded as one of the most successful efforts to squeeze the North.
 But later, when the State Department was trying to negotiate with North Korea over its nuclear program, the Treasury sanctions against the bank proved to be an irritant, and difficult to unwind.
 Mr. Goldberg's primary task, another administration official said, would be ''to make sure there is broader interagency coordination,'' not just between the State Department and the Treasury, but also the Pentagon, the Commerce Department and the Department of Homeland Security.
 Mr. Goldberg recently served as ambassador to Bolivia. He was expelled last fall by President Evo Morales, who accused him of supporting rebellious groups. In the 1990s, he was an adviser to Richard C. Holbrooke on the Dayton peace negotiations to end the war in Bosnia.
 ''We wanted somebody who woke up every morning and thought about nothing but sanctions implementation,'' the official said.
 Among his biggest challenges, officials said, will be persuading China to be rigorous in enforcing the sanctions. North Korea experts say there is little evidence, based on export statistics, that the Chinese went forward with the last set of economic measures.
 China has also shown little appetite for boarding North Korean ships. Even the United States is not eager to be the first to demand to inspect the freighter, the Kang Nam 1, some officials said.
 The freighter is believed to be headed to Myanmar, a route that would take it past Singapore, which has pledged to inspect North Korean ships and may provide the first test of the sanctions.
 ''Countries have greater latitude to board ships, but there are plenty of loopholes,'' said Marcus Noland, an expert on North Korea at the Peterson Institute for International Economics. He added that China could pose equal problems for North Korea by restricting the North's planes from its airspace.
 ''In some ways,'' Mr. Noland said, ''it goes back to China and how enthusiastically they are going to implement the sanctions.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (91%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); MILITARY VESSELS (77%); NAVAL VESSELS (77%); ARMS TRADE (76%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (76%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (69%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (68%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); RICHARD HOLBROOKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); SOUTH CHINA SEA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); CHINA (91%); MACAO (79%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2009



733 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: Violence May Hinder Talks With Iran, Obama Says

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama, whose campaign for the White House included a pledge to open talks with Iran, said Friday that the prospects for such a dialogue had been dampened by the brutal crackdown in the wake of the nation's disputed presidential election.
 At a White House news conference with the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, Mr. Obama intensified his reproach of Iran's government and called for an end to deadly attacks against its people. He also engaged in an unusual exchange with President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, brushing aside a suggestion that he apologize for criticizing Iran. 
 ''I would suggest that Mr. Ahmadinejad think carefully about the obligations he owes to his own people,'' Mr. Obama said. ''And he might want to consider looking at the families of those who've been beaten or shot or detained.''
 With Ms. Merkel at his side, Mr. Obama delivered some of his most pointed remarks against Iran since the violent protests began two weeks ago. Ms. Merkel said Germany and other nations shared his view, saying, ''Iran cannot count on the world turning a blind eye.''
 Since the two leaders last met, in Dresden on June 5, demonstrations over Iran's disputed elections have escalated into violent clashes, heightening concerns about instability in Iran and how to deal with its nuclear program.
 ''There is no doubt that any direct dialogue or diplomacy with Iran is going to be affected by the events of the last several weeks,'' Mr. Obama said. ''We don't yet know how any potential dialogue will have been affected until we see what has happened inside of Iran.''
 But he added, ''the clock is ticking,'' with Iran pursuing its nuclear program ''at a fairly rapid clip.''
 For the first time, Mr. Obama also directly criticized Iran's leaders and outlined distinctions between Mr. Ahmadinejad and his chief rival, Mir Hussein Moussavi. He said last week that few differences separated them on security issues, particularly the nuclear program. 
 He stressed Friday that the Iranian people should choose their leaders, but said Mr. Moussavi had ''captured the imagination or the spirit'' of people pushing for freedom in Iran. 
 Mr. Obama and Ms. Merkel also discussed Iraq, Afghanistan, climate change and the global recession in a series of private meetings and a lunch at the White House. The visit comes in advance of meetings next month in Italy of the Group of 8 industrialized nations.
 Foreign ministers of the group, who were already meeting in Trieste, Italy, issued a statement on Friday condemning the violence and urging Iran to resolve its crisis ''through democratic dialogue and peaceful means,'' according to Agence France-Presse. 
 The statement called on the Iranian government to ''guarantee that the will of the Iranian people is reflected in the electoral process,'' but refrained from questioning Mr. Ahmadinejad's victory, the agency reported.
 On Iraq, where a deadline is approaching for American combat troops to leave all cities by Tuesday, Mr. Obama said an uptick in violence would not push back the withdrawal. Despite high-profile bombings this week, he said, security in Iraq has ''continued to dramatically improve.''
 But it was the violence in Iran that dominated the two leaders' discussions on Friday. Ms. Merkel went a bit further than Mr. Obama in calling for a remedy to the disputed election, saying that votes should be recounted. 
 ''We will not forget this,'' Ms. Merkel said, expressing horror at images coming from Iran.
 In Tehran on Thursday, government television quoted Mr. Ahmadinejad as telling Mr. Obama to ''show your repentance'' for criticizing Iran's response to the protests. He also said Mr. Obama was following ''the same path that Bush did.'' 
 Mr. Obama did not acquiesce, saying, ''I don't take Mr. Ahmadinejad's statements seriously about apologies, particularly given the fact that the United States has gone out of its way not to interfere with the election process in Iran.''
 Of more urgent concern, Mr. Obama and Ms. Merkel said, is Iran's nuclear program. Talks among the United States, Europe, China and Russia, they said, must continue despite Iran's disputed election.
 The session at the White House on Friday was the third time Mr. Obama and Ms. Merkel have met this year. Both leaders seemed intent on wiping away suggestions of a tense relationship between their countries.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Chancellor Angela Merkel met Friday with President Obama at the White House, where both criticized Iran's crackdown.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM YOUNG/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IRANIAN ELECTION PROTESTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (69%); RIOTS (67%); RECESSION (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%)

COMPANY: AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); ANGELA MERKEL (90%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (79%); MIR HOSSEIN MOUSAVI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); GERMANY (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); ITALY (65%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2009



734 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1060 words

HEADLINE: Little Hope For G.O.P. To Support Health Bill

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE and DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Congressional Republicans are finding much to dislike in Democratic health care proposals, illustrating the immense difficulty Democrats face in fashioning an overhaul that can attract enough Republican support to be portrayed as bipartisan.
 Republicans' primary objection is the Democrats' push for a public health insurance plan that would serve as an alternative to private coverage. Republicans say such a plan would cause the private insurance market to unravel. 
 There is also the potential 10-year price tag of $1 trillion or more for the overhaul, coupled with the prospect of new taxes or fees to offset the cost. And Republicans see elements of the Democratic plans as government intrusion into personal health care decision making. 
 Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the House Republican leader, said he was unaware of any House Republican inclined to support the Democrats' proposed legislation. 
 Asked how many Senate Republicans could sign on to developing Democratic plans, Senator Richard M. Burr of North Carolina, author of a Republican alternative, said: ''I think right now, none. Zero.''
 Hoping to lessen the divide, a handful of senators from the two parties who sit on the Finance Committee have been meeting privately, trying to find some consensus. But they left for the weeklong Fourth of July recess without any firm agreement, though they pledged to keep trying. Even a senator at the center of those talks among four Republicans and three Democrats, Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, the senior Republican on the committee, indicated a reluctance to back any legislation unless it was constructed to attract more than a handful of Republicans.
 ''This is not going to be a bipartisan bill with just three or four Republicans,'' Mr. Grassley said. ''This is a bill that gets broad bipartisan support or it is not going to be a bipartisan bill.''
 Democrats have set the bar lower, suggesting that it would be sufficient simply to win enough Republican votes to a pass a bill. They are also reaching out to Republican governors, hoping for support outside Washington. 
 Supporters of the Democratic health care proposals have been moving aggressively to pressure lawmakers in their home districts, including both Democrats and Republicans who could represent swing votes on the health care issue. 
 Health Care for America Now, a coalition of liberal groups allied with President Obama, said it would use the Fourth of July holiday to circulate a ''declare your independence from insurance industry monopolies'' petition at parades in 44 states. 
 And the coalition said it was taking special aim at a handful of Republicans, including Mr. Grassley in Iowa, Representatives Roy Blunt and Jo Ann Emerson in Missouri, and the senators from Maine, Susan Collins and Olympia J. Snowe.
 Democrats say the Republicans' stance reflects a calculation by the party leadership of the political danger in allowing Democrats to score a victory on health care as well as a fundamental misreading of the national mood.
 ''I have never seen a party leadership lose two national elections back to back and still defend the status quo from health care to energy policy to the economy,'' said Rahm Emanuel, the White House chief of staff.
 In the budget adopted earlier this year, Democrats granted themselves the power to force health care legislation through the Senate on a simple majority vote. But many lawmakers are reluctant to do so both because of the appearance of partisanship as well as the difficulty of enacting such complex legislation under fast-track rules.
 Republicans have studied how to navigate the political terrain of health care given strong public support for improvements. In a memorandum to Republican strategists, Ed Gillespie, a former chairman of the Republican National Committee, and Whit Ayres, a Republican pollster, urged party leaders to focus on cost concerns.
 But they also warned party strategists to take note of the American public's frustration with the soaring cost of health care. ''Concern about rising health care costs outstrips every other economic concern today,'' Mr. Gillespie and Mr. Ayres wrote. 
 Republicans say that, like Democrats, they see the need for changes in health care, but that their preference is to build more on the existing system. They also express alarm at estimates of the legislation's cost. 
 ''Given the sticker shock, there is not a lot of appetite for it,'' said Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas. He said that if Democrats insisted on forging ahead, ''we may have to stop what they are proposing to get them in a listening mood.''
 Like other Republicans, Senator Saxby Chambliss of Georgia said there were many views shared by both parties, like the need to reduce the number of uninsured Americans and make health care more accessible. 
 ''Certainly, some of the stuff we can agree on,'' Mr. Chambliss said. ''But there are going to be major policy disagreements, particularly on the funding mechanism for this thing. I don't see how any Republican can vote for a tax increase, which is going to be in there. And the public plan is a nonstarter.''
 The idea of a government-run health insurance program to compete with private plans is troubling even to potential Republican backers of a health care overhaul like Senator Collins. 
 Ms. Collins said she would like to see the legislation ''put more emphasis on health promotion, disease prevention, end of life care,'' as well as tax credits for small businesses and self-employed Americans to ease their access to health insurance.
 Republicans, however, have yet to put forward their own concrete plans that would broadly expand health coverage while also holding down costs. 
 Senator Snowe of Maine said she was striving to produce a plan ''that does not undo the current system in terms of employer-based coverage or the quality of our health-care system.'' 
 She said she would also like to see changes in the insurance market for small businesses and individuals to make those plans more affordable.
 But she was cautious about predicting whether the bipartisan talks could produce an agreement that could attract Republican support.
 ''We are working mightily in a good-faith effort with a genuine interest in achieving a result,'' she said. ''But no one ever suggested it was going to be easy.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Charles E. Grassley, Iowa
Orrin G. Hatch, Utah
Michael B. Enzi, Wyoming
Olympia J. Snowe, Maine
 Susan Collins, Maine (A13) CHART: G.O.P. Senators On Health Care: Congressional Republicans have criticized the Democratic push for a new government insurance plan and the potential 10-year price tag of $1 trillion or more for a health care overhaul. Senate Democrats have reached out to a few Republicans to discuss possible grounds for compromise. Here is a look at what is on these Republicans' wish lists (A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (88%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); POLITICS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); INSURANCE (77%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); GOVERNORS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); PETITIONS (66%); VOTERS & VOTING (66%)

PERSON: CHUCK GRASSLEY (89%); SUSAN COLLINS (79%); RICHARD BURR (59%); ROY BLUNT (59%); BARACK OBAMA (59%); JOHN BOEHNER (59%); JO ANN EMERSON (59%); OLYMPIA SNOWE (59%); MIKE ENZI (59%); ORRIN HATCH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); WYOMING, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2009



735 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 316 words

HEADLINE: G.E. Is Building a Center For Research Near Detroit

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
General Electric will build a research center that could bring more than 1,100 jobs to Michigan, the company announced Friday.
 The center, called the Advanced Manufacturing and Software Technology Center, will be about 25 miles outside Detroit in Van Buren Township. G.E.'s plan is to hire engineers and scientists in the region who have been put out of work by the shrinkage in the auto industry. 
 G.E. said that it would invest about $100 million to build the site and that it would benefit from more than $60 million in state incentives over 12 years.
 ''We've found the state of Michigan to be aggressive and a good partner,'' G.E.'s chief executive, Jeffrey R. Immelt, said at a news conference with Governor Jennifer Granholm in Birmingham, Mich. ''We view this as a long-term commitment. We've looked at this downturn as a way to launch more investment faster.''
 The center will include renewable energy components like wind turbines, said Mr. Immelt, who is on President Obama's board of economic advisers. G.E. is the biggest United States maker of wind turbines. Existing space on the site will be used to develop software and health care information technology, G.E. said.
 Mr. Immelt said the United States must be a ''strong exporting country'' to help speed recovery from the recession. The center will open later this year, creating 1,100 to 1,200 jobs, according to G.E., and Mr. Immelt said it might grow further. A Web site through which engineers can submit job applications should be running by next week, he said. The jobs pay about $100,000 a year, Ms. Granholm said.
 ''This country's future has to be about exports,'' Mr. Immelt said. 
 ''We're a $19 billion exporter in 2008. We don't do anything unless we can compete on a global basis. Our willingness to invest here in Michigan says we think we can be competitive here so that that export base grows into the future.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Governor Jennifer Granholm of Michigan with Jeffrey R. Immelt, the chief of General Electric, in Birmingham, Mich. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BILL PUGLIANO/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIND ENERGY (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); TURBINE MFG (79%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (77%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (72%); WIND POWER PLANTS (72%); EXPORT TRADE (70%); RECESSION (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (67%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (67%)

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (85%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (85%); GEC (LSE) (85%); GE (SWX) (85%); GE (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (85%)

PERSON: JEFFREY IMMELT (89%); JENNIFER GRANHOLM (77%); BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2009



736 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1158 words

HEADLINE: House Backs Bill, 219-212, to Curb Global Warming

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The House passed legislation on Friday intended to address global warming and transform the way the nation produces and uses energy.
 The vote was the first time either house of Congress had approved a bill meant to curb the heat-trapping gases scientists have linked to climate change. The legislation, which passed despite deep divisions among Democrats, could lead to profound changes in many sectors of the economy, including electric power generation, agriculture, manufacturing and construction.
 The bill's passage, by 219 to 212, with 44 Democrats voting against it, also established a marker for the United States when international negotiations on a new climate change treaty begin later this year. 
 At the heart of the legislation is a cap-and-trade system that sets a limit on overall emissions of heat-trapping gases while allowing utilities, manufacturers and other emitters to trade pollution permits, or allowances, among themselves. The cap would grow tighter over the years, pushing up the price of emissions and presumably driving industry to find cleaner ways of making energy.
 President Obama hailed the House passage of the bill as ''a bold and necessary step.'' He said in a statement that he looked forward to Senate action that would send a bill to his desk ''so that we can say, at long last, that this was the moment when we decided to confront America's energy challenge and reclaim America's future.''
 Mr. Obama had lobbied wavering lawmakers in recent days, and Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton and former Vice President Al Gore had made personal appeals to dozens of fence-sitters.
 As difficult as House passage proved, it is just the beginning of the energy and climate debate in Congress. The issue now moves to the Senate, where political divisions and regional differences are even more stark.
 Representative Henry A. Waxman, Democrat of California, a co-sponsor of the bill, called the vote a ''decisive and historic action'' that would position the United States as a leader in energy efficiency and technology. 
 But the legislation, a patchwork of compromises, falls far short of what many European governments and environmentalists have said is needed to avert the worst effects of global warming. And it pitted liberal Democrats from the East and West Coasts against more conservative Democrats from areas dependent on coal for electricity and on heavy manufacturing for jobs. 
 While some environmentalists enthusiastically supported the legislation, others, including Greenpeace and Friends of the Earth, opposed it. Industry officials were split, with the United States Chamber of Commerce and the National Association of Manufacturers opposing the bill and some of the nation's biggest corporations, including Dow Chemical and Ford, backing it. 
 Republican leaders called the legislation a national energy tax and predicted that those who voted for the measure would pay a heavy price at the polls next year.
 ''No matter how you doctor it or tailor it,'' said Representative Joe Pitts, Republican of Pennsylvania, ''it is a tax.''
 Only eight Republicans voted for the bill, which runs to more than 1,300 pages.
 Representative John Boehner of Ohio, the Republican leader, stalled the vote by using his privilege as a party leader to consume just over an hour by reading from a 300-page amendment added in the early hours of Friday. 
 Apart from its domestic implications, the legislation represents a first step toward measurable cuts in carbon dioxide emissions that administration officials can point to when the United States joins other nations in negotiating a new global climate change treaty later this year. For nearly 20 years, the United States has resisted mandatory limits on heat-trapping emissions.
 The German chancellor, Angela Merkel, who was in Washington on Friday to meet with Mr. Obama, strongly endorsed the bill even though it fell short of European goals for reducing the emissions of heat-trapping gases.
 Mrs. Merkel, a longtime advocate of strong curbs on emissions, has been pushing the United States to take a leading role before the climate negotiations, set for December in Copenhagen.
 After meeting with Mr. Obama, she said she had seen a ''sea change'' in the United States on climate policy that she could not have imagined a year ago when President George W. Bush was in office. 
 The House legislation reflects a series of concessions necessary to attract the support of Democrats from different regions and with different ideologies. In the months of horse-trading before the vote Friday, the bill's targets for emissions of heat-trapping gases were weakened, its mandate for renewable electricity was scaled back, and incentives for industries were sweetened.
 The bill's sponsors were making deals on the House floor right up until the time of the vote. They set aside money for new energy research and a hurricane study center in Florida.
 The final bill has a goal of reducing greenhouse gases in the United States to 17 percent below 2005 levels by 2020, and 83 percent by midcentury.
 When the program is scheduled to begin, in 2012, the estimated price of a permit to emit a ton of carbon dioxide will be about $13. That is projected to rise steadily as emission limits come down, but the bill contains a provision to prevent costs from rising too quickly in any one year.
 The bill would grant a majority of the permits free in the early years of the program, to keep costs low. The Congressional Budget Office estimated that the average American household would pay an additional $175 a year in energy costs by 2020 as a result of the provision, while the poorest households would receive rebates that would lower their annual energy costs by $40. 
 Several House members expressed concern about the market to be created in carbon allowances, saying it posed the same risks as those in markets in other kinds of derivatives. Regulation of such markets would be divided among the Environmental Protection Agency, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. 
 The bill also sets a national standard of 20 percent for the production of renewable electricity by 2020, although a third of that could be met with efficiency measures rather than renewable energy sources like solar, wind and geothermal power.
 It also devotes billions of dollars to new energy projects and subsidies for low-carbon agricultural practices, research on cleaner coal and electric vehicle development.
 Mr. Gore, who shared a Nobel Peace Prize for his work on global warming, posted an appeal on his blog for passage of the legislation.
 ''This bill doesn't solve every problem,'' Mr. Gore said, ''but passage today means that we build momentum for the debate coming up in the Senate and negotiations for the treaty talks in December which will put in place a global solution to the climate crisis. There is no backup plan.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, with Representative Henry A. Waxman, left, and Representative Edward J. Markey after the vote. Ms. Pelosi pressed a button that chirped, ''That was easy.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A3) CHARTS: The Waxman-Markey Bill on Energy and Climate Change: The bill approved Friday by the House calls for a cap-and-trade program aimed at reducing the nation's carbon dioxide emissions. Polluters will be required to buy permits to emit a certain amount of carbon dioxide. The system sets an overall cap on such permits but allows them to be traded. The cap grows tighter over time, pushing up emission prices and prodding industry to release less carbon dioxide and embrace cleaner energy sources.(Source: National Commission on Energy Policy
 World Resources Institute)(A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (94%); EMISSIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); APPROVALS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL PERMITS (77%); LIBERALISM (76%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (76%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); CHEMICALS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); CONSERVATISM (67%)

COMPANY: DOW CHEMICAL CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD RESOURCES INSTITUTE (59%)

TICKER: DOW (SWX) (50%); DOW (NYSE) (50%); DOW (LSE) (50%); 4850 (TSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); HENRY WAXMAN (78%); EDWARD J MARKEY (73%); NANCY PELOSI (73%); AL GORE (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2009



737 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 400 words

HEADLINE: Leadership in South Carolina

 BODY:
If ever a chief executive rendered himself inoperative, Gov. Mark Sanford did so in skipping out on his responsibilities to South Carolina's four million citizens for six days on a secretive personal fling in Argentina. In the process, Mr. Sanford failed to transfer emergency powers to the lieutenant governor, as provided in the State Constitution, leaving his state vulnerable to all manner of crises while the governor was nowhere to be found. 
 This is a compelling reason that Mr. Sanford should resign from office. There are others. He lied to the state and his staff in concocting a false trail to mask his trysting. He tapped taxpayer funds to drum up a trade mission last year that allowed him to see his lover. 
 It's not encouraging that the governor compared himself on Friday to King David, the adulterous and murderous Biblical king who fell out of God's favor ''but then picked up the pieces and built from there.'' 
 Any attempt by Mr. Sanford to retain power will prolong the civic shambles he has made. The real issues of government, beginning with the state's grave economic problems, will be relegated to an afterthought as further details spill out about the governor's personal lapses. The repair of Mr. Sanford's family life, while ardently hoped for by empathetic supporters, should not be confused with restoring responsible government. 
 There is every indication that Mr. Sanford would have maintained his cavalier abuse of the governorship but for the discovery of his official recklessness by the newspaper The State in Columbia. In his mystery odyssey, the governor eluded his security detail and drove a state car to the airport with the whereabouts locater turned off. Surprised by a news photographer in returning from Buenos Aires, the governor countered with his rambling public confession. (How public officials of both parties expect they can indulge themselves without some enemy revealing their hypocrisy is one of the running mysteries of politics.)
 Since Mr. Sanford thought enough of his political peers to resign as chairman of the Republican Governors Association, he has a comparable duty to South Carolina voters. Unfortunately, his spinners are emphasizing contrition, not competence, in describing a new mission of ''building back the trust'' of the people. Mr. Sanford should get out of the way of the need to build back the government he undermined. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); EXECUTIVES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); RESIGNATIONS (75%); RELIGION (68%); POLITICS (66%); FAMILY (66%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (64%)

PERSON: MARK SANFORD (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%); COLUMBIA, SC, USA (79%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); ARGENTINA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2009



738 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 486 words

HEADLINE: The Prurient Trap

BYLINE: By CHARLES M. BLOW

 BODY:
''Hiking the Appalachian Trail.'' Is that what we're calling it these days? That's what Gov. Mark Sanford of South Carolina told his staff that he was going to do when he absconded to Argentina to be with his ''sweetest'' Maria of the ''magnificently gentle kisses.'' 
 I had no particular interest in rubbernecking this disaster. People make mistakes. The flesh is weak, the heart disobedient and marriages hard. According to the General Social Survey, about 10 percent of married people admit that they have cheated on their spouses. And, according to a USA Today/Gallup poll taken in March last year, 54 percent of Americans say that they know someone who has been unfaithful. 'Twas ever thus.
 At the end of the day, aside from the dereliction of duty and malfeasance, this, for me, would be a private matter. That is if it were not for the appalling hypocrisy of yet another social conservative saying one thing while doing another. 
 There are Democratic sex scandals to be sure, but Democrats didn't build a franchise on holier-than-thou moral rectitude. The Republicans did. They used sexual morality as a weapon and now it's shooting them in the foot. 
 Sanford voted to impeach Bill Clinton during the Monica Lewinsky saga. According to The Post and Courier of Charleston, Sanford called Clinton's behavior ''reprehensible'' and said, ''I think it would be much better for the country and for him personally'' to resign. ''I come from the business side. ... If you had a chairman or president in the business world facing these allegations, he'd be gone.'' Remember that Mr. Sanford?
 And this kind of hypocrisy isn't confined to the politicians. It permeates the electorate. While conservatives fight to ''defend'' marriage from gays, they can't keep theirs together. According to the Census Bureau's Statistical Abstract, states that went Republican in November accounted for eight of the 10 states with the highest divorce rates in 2006.
 Conservatives touted abstinence-only education, which was a flop, when real sex education was needed, most desperately in red states. According to 2006 data from the Guttmacher Institute, those red states accounted for eight of the 10 states with the highest teenage birthrates.
 And, a study titled ''Red Light States: Who Buys Online Adult Entertainment?'' that was conducted by Benjamin Edelman, an assistant professor of business at Harvard Business School and published earlier this year in the Journal of Economic Perspectives found that subscriptions to online pornography sites were ''more prevalent in states where surveys indicate conservative positions on religion, gender roles, and sexuality'' and in states where ''more people agree that 'I have old-fashioned values about family and marriage.' ''
 They could avoid this hypocrisy by focusing more on what happens in their own bedrooms and avoiding the trap of judging what goes on in everyone else's. 

CORRECTION-DATE: June 30, 2009

 CORRECTION:
A chart accompanying the Charles Blow column on Saturday incorrectly identified which presidential candidates won Maine and Tennessee in 2008 in a list of states ranked by subscriptions to online pornographic sites. Maine voted for Barack Obama, not John McCain. Tennessee favored Mr. McCain, not Mr. Obama.

GRAPHIC: CHART: States are arranged vertically from highest to lowest rates. In the case of ties, the states are listed alphabetically. Divorce rates
Teenage birthrates
Subscriptions to online pornographic sites, adjusted for broadband usage. (Sources: The 2009 Statistical Abstract, U.S. Census Bureau
The Guttmacher Institute
 ''Red Light States: Who Buys Online Adult Entertainment?'') 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SEX EDUCATION (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); MARRIAGE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); MISCONDUCT (75%); STATISTICS (75%); POLITICS (72%); PORNOGRAPHY (72%); SEX SCANDALS (72%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (70%); ADOLESCENTS (70%); SCANDALS (70%); IMPEACHMENT (65%); CENSUS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); GUTTMACHER INSTITUTE (59%)

PERSON: MARK SANFORD (89%); BILL CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (58%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (91%) UNITED STATES (92%); ARGENTINA (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2009



739 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTS, BRIEFLY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 164 words

HEADLINE: Museum's Finances Bounce Back

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT; Compiled by FELICIA R. LEE

 BODY:
The Museum of Contemporary Art in Los Angeles, which was teetering on the brink of financial collapse last year before being rescued by Eli Broad, announced on Friday that it had raised $20 million in new funds from trustees and other patrons since the beginning of the year. The fund-raising marks a significant financial turnaround for the museum, whose endowment had shrunk to about $6 million last December from more than $40 million near the beginning of the decade. Since then the museum has cut its staff and trimmed planned exhibitions. The trustees allocated $4.25 million of the recent gifts to the endowment, an amount that was matched by the Broad Foundation to more than double the endowment. The museum also said that three new trustees had joined its board, including Darren Star, the creator ''Sex and the City''; Marc I. Stern, an investment company executive and chairman of the Los Angeles Opera; and Carolyn Clark Powers, an arts patron in Los Angeles and Aspen, Colo. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); ENDOWMENTS (90%); FUNDRAISING (88%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (88%); BOARD CHANGES (66%)

PERSON: ELI BROAD (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); COLORADO, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2009



740 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1098 words

HEADLINE: IRANIAN LEADERS GAINING THE EDGE OVER PROTESTERS

BYLINE: By NAZILA FATHI and MICHAEL SLACKMAN; Nazila Fathi reported from Tehran, and Michael Slackman from Cairo. Alan Cowell contributed reporting from Paris, Mona el-Naggar from Cairo, and Sharon Otterman from New York.

DATELINE: TEHRAN 

 BODY:
The direct confrontation over Iran's presidential election was effectively silenced Friday when the main opposition leader said he would seek permits for any future protests, an influential cleric suggested that leaders of the demonstrations could be executed, and the council responsible for validating the election repeated its declaration that there were no major irregularities.
 Rather than address the underlying issues that led to the most sustained, unexpected challenge to the leadership since the 1979 revolution, the government pressed its effort to recast the entire conflict not as an internal dispute that brought millions of Iranians into the streets, but as one between Iran and outside agents from Europe, the United States and even Saudi Arabia. 
 It was a narrative that spoke both to the leadership's belief that it had beaten back the popular outburst, and to the fragility of the calm. ''There has been too much violence to forget about it,'' said an expatriate Iranian analyst who is not being identified because he has relatives in Iran and is afraid of reprisals against them. 
 Although the government appeared to have the upper hand, political analysts said it was too soon for President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad to declare his troubles over. Though it seemed increasingly likely he would be sworn in for a second term by early August, there was no guarantee how that term would unfold or whether competitors within the system -- who have a different vision of Iran -- would work against him. 
 Even before he faced a challenge to his legitimacy, Mr. Ahmadinejad was often castigated by Parliament for his troubled handling of the economy, and there had been talk of trying to impeach him. Several of his ministers quit the government in protest over his economic policies. ''There are quite a few people sitting on the fence watching to see which way the wind will blow,'' said Ali M. Ansari, a professor of Iranian history at St. Andrews University in Scotland. ''Information is very hard to come by, but there seems to be much back-room negotiating predicated on the fact normality should first return to the country.''
 Throughout the crisis, events in Iran have focused on two camps: the opposition, led by Mir Hussein Moussavi, a former prime minister, and the camp surrounding Mr. Ahmadinejad, including the supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, and the military and security agencies. But there is a third group of more pragmatic military and security figures who have competed with Mr. Ahmadinejad but are believed to remain close to Ayatollah Khamenei. 
 Two of the most influential in that group are the mayor of Tehran, Mohammad Baqer Ghalibaf, a former commander in the Revolutionary Guards, and the speaker of Parliament, Ali Larijani, the nation's former chief nuclear negotiator. Both ran for president four years ago and want to run again, and have at times been sharp critics of Mr. Ahmadinejad's stewardship. Political analysts have described them as loyal to the leader and committed to Islamic government, but eager for a more modern state integrated with the rest of the world. Mr. Larijani resigned as nuclear negotiator in part because he favored engagement over confrontation.
 During the electoral crisis both made statements demonstrating their independence from Mr. Ahmadinejad -- and their objection to some aspects of the crackdown. The mayor called for allowing legal protests. The speaker said that it was improper for the Guardian Council, which is supposed to monitor the elections, to side with Mr. Ahmadinejad. Mr. Larijani also said that the majority of the people did not believe the government's contention that Mr. Ahmadinejad had won with 63 percent of the vote.
 ''It's an odd dynamic,'' said Karim Sadjadpour, an Iran expert with the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. ''The person they have to be loyal to, the supreme leader, has thrown his weight behind this person they despise. Ghalibaf is one of these people, like Larijani, and others had been on the fence, and if there is a tipping point they could go the other way.''
 The government continued to try to frame any opponents as traitors to the nation. The Friday Prayer ceremony is a political and religious ritual held in a large hall at Tehran University and broadcast all over the country. Ayatollah Ahmad Khatami, a stout, turbaned cleric who frequently delivers the Friday speech, hewed to the hard party line. He urged that those who led protests be convicted for taking up arms against people, an offense punishable by death.
 ''I want the judiciary to punish leading rioters firmly and without showing any mercy to teach everyone a lesson,'' he said.
 A few hours earlier, the Guardian Council repeated its claim that the election had been fair. ''There has been no fraud in the election,'' said the council's spokesman, Abbas-Ali Kadkhodaei, acknowledging that the review process was not technically completed. He said the council had checked discrepancies reported by Mr. Moussavi, but that they had not borne out. 
 Mr. Moussavi immediately posted a report containing a long list of irregularities on his Web site, an action that barely registered against the might of the state machine. But he also signaled that the street phase of the protests was ending, saying on his Web site that he would try to seek permits for future protests -- permits the government has consistently refused. 
 While protesters were aided at first by technology -- primarily the Internet and text messaging -- the government deployed its control of state television and news outlets to sweep away competing narratives. 
 ''It is still possible that the information age will crack authoritarian structures in Iran,'' wrote Jon B. Alterman, director of the Middle East program for the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. ''But it is far more likely that the government will be able to use that technology to secure its own rule.''
 Mr. Moussavi may have little room to maneuver, but he has refused to surrender altogether. He is being closely monitored by security agents. Members of Parliament who are aligned with Ayatollah Khamenei met with Mr. Moussavi on Wednesday and tried to press him to relent.
 ''Mr. Moussavi still wants the election results nullified,'' Ismail Kossari, one of the members of Parliament, told the ILNA news agency. 
 ''We told him that his demand was unreasonable and immoral and he shouldn't have repeated his demand after the supreme leader's statements at the Friday prayers,'' Mr. Kossari was quoted as saying.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ayatollah Ahmad Khatami, in front of a crowd, suggested at Friday Prayer in Tehran that protest leaders could be executed.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RAHEB HOMAVANDI/REUTERS)(A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IRANIAN ELECTION PROTESTS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); SECURITY GUARD SERVICES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); HISTORY (61%)

PERSON: ALI KHAMENEI (89%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (79%); ALI LARIJANI (71%); MIR HOSSEIN MOUSAVI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (98%); IRAN (92%); EUROPE (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); SCOTLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2009



741 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; GARY JOURNAL; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 883 words

HEADLINE: Fading City Remembers Beloved Hometown Hero

BYLINE: By SUSAN SAULNY

DATELINE: GARY, Ind. 

 BODY:
With block upon block of crumbling houses, abandoned stores, and churches and theaters left to rot like ancient ruins, this old industrial city can easily seem like a ghost town of vanquished dreams. 
 Steel City, so nicknamed in its heyday when all the smokestacks were pumping, lost its big shoulders a long time ago, replaced with a slump from the weight of rampant poverty and a forlorn economic scene.
Visions of renaissance have come and gone. But if there is anything left that brings a twinkle to this town's eye, it is the pride its people have felt over the decades knowing that Gary produced Michael Jackson, a little boy born on the lowly west side who, at the height of his pop music career, was the brightest star in the world. 
 Although he might not have always known it, Mr. Jackson took Gary, a place so much in need of a spectacular fantasy ride, along on his journey. And in the years before his death Thursday at the age of 50, he had made it a point to visit the old neighborhood -- perhaps not enough to satisfy everyone, but with a sincerity that many said they cherished as the highlight of their lives.
 ''He came my junior year and performed on the same stage where I was standing -- amazing!'' Belle Dean, 23, a flight attendant, reminisced Thursday night at a vigil outside the old Jackson home. ''Michael Jackson to us, he gives us hope that we can be someone. Most people who look at Gary think there's nothing good coming out of Gary. Well, there are everyday people doing amazing things. Michael was one of those people, and he's a fine example of how an ordinary person can do something extraordinary.''
 Built as a company town by U.S. Steel in 1906, Gary had a promising start as a destination on the shores of Lake Michigan in northwest Indiana, only 25 miles from downtown Chicago. The remnants of great buildings along the main boulevard, Broadway, hint at a past of some grandeur and cultural richness.
 Old-timers remember theaters and clubs, and a vibrant social scene in church basements, at neighborhood socials and in high school gyms that was particularly appealing to poor black families who had migrated from the South to work in the mills in the 1940s and '50s. 
 Doris Darrington, 77, can still picture the singing. ''There were a lot of talented kids,'' Ms. Darrington said. ''All they did was sing. Everybody wanted to perform.''
 It was into this world that Mr. Jackson's father, Joseph Jackson, a steelworker, pushed his family to excel, with young Michael, born in 1958, as the lead singer of the group of five siblings known first as the Jackson Brothers, and later as the Jackson Five.
 They won a talent show at the neighborhood high school, and then at the Apollo Theater in Harlem, and their fame spread like wildfire. A singing and dancing sensation, they were signed by Motown Records in 1968.
 But as the Jacksons' personal fortunes took off, Gary began a rather rapid decline like so many places that fell on hard times in the 1960s. Richard G. Hatcher, one of the nation's first black mayors of a major city, won election and white flight swept through. Given global shifts in the steel industry, jobs that the city was built to accommodate started to disappear, leaving whole communities adrift. 
 Time has not eased the pain. Recently, things have only gotten worse. The share of people living below the poverty line in the city, of about 97,700, grew to 33.2 percent in 2007 from 25.8 percent in 2000, according to estimates by the American Community Survey of the Census Bureau. 
 The current recession has done nothing to help, bringing rampant layoffs and cuts to city services. Yet there are pockets of resilience that defy expectations. 
 Even though her house is in the shadow of a blown-out apartment building on a street with as many vacant, overgrown lots as occupied houses, Ms. Darrington, for instance, tends an immaculate garden. Ms. Dean, the flight attendant, glows as she talks about sitting in the same classrooms where the older Jackson brothers attended school before the family moved away for a life on the road. 
 Tracell Britton, 17, said he decided to go to college -- and received a baseball scholarship -- after one of Mr. Jackson's brothers, Tito, gave a speech at his high school about the importance of higher education.
 ''It meant a lot to us,'' Mr. Britton said. ''That they could be so successful coming from the same place we come from.''
 But was there something particular about Gary that the Jacksons took with them? Something particular to the place that made them great? Thomas Neal Jr., a lifelong Gary resident, thinks so.
 ''Joe Jackson believed you had to go get what you want to succeed,'' Mr. Neal, 41, said. ''That determination, that striving, was part of the Gary work ethic. Nobody came here unless they wanted to work.''
 By chance, the Jackson family lived on Jackson Street, named for President Andrew Jackson. The modest house at 2300 still stands, a small clapboard monument to big dreams. 
 ''For a couple of years, this was the murder capital of America,'' said Mr. Neal, who worked in rail car manufacturing until the local plant closed a few weeks ago. ''But we could also claim to be home to the King of Pop. And that always gave us something positive to feel good about.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Erine D. Shelby played Michael Jackson songs on Friday outside Mr. Jackson's boyhood home in Gary, Ind. The city's heyday is over, but the Jacksons have been a continued source of pride.(PHOTOGRAPH BY M. SPENCER GREEN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (89%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); RELIGION (78%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (77%); FAMILY (76%); POOR POPULATION (76%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (74%); HISTORIC SITES (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); POP & ROCK (69%)

PERSON: MICHAEL JACKSON (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GARY, IN, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%) INDIANA, USA (93%); LAKE MICHIGAN (77%); ILLINOIS, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2009



742 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: No Recovery In Sight

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
How do you put together a consumer economy that works when the consumers are out of work?
 One of the great stories you'll be hearing over the next couple of years will be about the large number of Americans who were forced out of work in this recession and remained unable to find gainful employment after the recession ended. We're basically in denial about this.
 There are now more than five unemployed workers for every job opening in the United States. The ranks of the poor are growing, welfare rolls are rising and young American men on a broad front are falling into an abyss of joblessness. 
 Some months ago, the Obama administration and various mainstream economists forecast a peak unemployment rate of roughly 8 percent this year. It has already reached 9.4 percent, and most analysts now expect it to hit 10 percent or higher. Economists are currently spreading the word that the recession may end sometime this year, but the unemployment rate will continue to climb. That's not a recovery. That's mumbo jumbo.
 Why this rampant joblessness is not viewed as a crisis and approached with the sense of urgency and commitment that a crisis warrants, is beyond me. The Obama administration has committed a great deal of money to keep the economy from collapsing entirely, but that is not enough to cope with the scope of the jobless crisis.
 There were roughly seven million people officially counted as unemployed in November 2007, a month before the recession began. Now there are about 14 million. If you add to these unemployed individuals those who are working part time but would like to work full time, and those who want jobs but have become discouraged and stopped looking, you get an underutilization rate that is truly alarming.
 ''By May 2009,'' according to the Center for Labor Market Studies at Northeastern University in Boston, ''the total number of underutilized workers had increased dramatically from 15.63 million to 29.37 million -- a rise of 13.7 million, or 88 percent. Nearly 30 million working-age individuals were underutilized in May 2009, the largest number in our nation's history. The overall labor underutilization rate in May 2009 had risen to 18.2 percent, its highest value in 26 years.''
 If it were true that the recession is approaching its end and that these startlingly high numbers were about to begin a steady and substantial decline, there would be much less reason for alarm. But while there is evidence the recession is easing, hardly anyone believes a big-time employment turnaround is in the offing.
 Three-quarters of the workers let go over the past year were permanently displaced, as opposed to temporarily laid off. They won't be going back to their jobs when economic conditions improve. And many of those who were permanently displaced were in fields like construction and manufacturing in which the odds of finding work, even after a recovery takes hold, are not good. 
 Another startling aspect of this economic downturn is the toll it has taken on men, especially young men. Men accounted for nearly 80 percent of the loss in employment in this recession. As the labor market center reported, ''The unemployment rate for males in April 2009 was 10 percent, versus only 7.2 percent for women, the largest absolute and relative gender gap in unemployment rates in the post-World War II period.''
 Workers under 30 have sustained nearly half the net job losses since November 2007.
 This is not a recipe for a strong economic recovery once the recession officially ends, or for a healthy society. Young males, especially, are being clobbered at an age when, typically, they would be thinking about getting married, setting up new households and starting families. Moreover, work habits and experience developed in one's 20s often establish the foundation for decades of employment and earnings. 
 We've seen what happens when you rely on debt and inflated assets to keep the economy afloat. The economy can't be re-established on a sound basis without aggressive efforts to put people back to work in jobs with decent wages. 
 We also need to consider the suffering that is being endured by these high levels of joblessness, including the profound negative effect on the families of the unemployed. Lawrence Mishel, president of the Economic Policy Institute, warned about the consequences for children. ''What does it mean,'' he asked, ''when kids are under stress because there is no money in the household, or people have to move more, or are combining households, or lose their health insurance? I believe this is going to leave a permanent scar on a generation of kids.''
 The first step in dealing with a crisis is to recognize that it exists. This is not a problem that will evaporate when the gross domestic product finally begins to creep into positive territory. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); LAYOFFS (76%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%); HISTORY (67%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2009



743 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 7736 words

HEADLINE: G.M., Detroit and the Fall of the Black Middle Class

BYLINE: By JONATHAN MAHLER. 
Jonathan Mahler is a contributing writer. His most recent book is ''The Challenge: Hamdan v. Rumsfeld and the Fight Over Presidential Power.''

 BODY:
The Pontiac Assembly Center in Pontiac, Mich., is a massive, low-slung structure of concrete and corrugated green steel that squats conspicuously among the many strip malls that line one of the city's main thoroughfares, South Opdyke Road. Locals refer to the three-million-square-foot factory, which makes Chevrolet Silverado and GMC Sierra pickup trucks, as Plant 6, because when it opened in 1972, it was the sixth General Motors manufacturing facility in this city, 25 miles north of downtown Detroit. At the time, General Motors was the world's largest automaker. It dominated the American market, manufacturing half of the vehicles sold in the U.S. As recently as 2003, Plant 6 was running three consecutive eight-hour shifts, employing 3,000 people and making 1,300 trucks a day. 
 Today, Pontiac Assembly is the city's last working auto-assembly plant, and like many of America's car factories, it is operating at a greatly diminished capacity. By last summer, the plant was running just one shift -- from 6 in the morning to 2:30 in the afternoon -- having shed nearly two-thirds of its workers through a combination of layoffs, buyouts and early retirements. A few months ago, Plant 6 slowed down its assembly line and laid off another 600 employees, bringing the total number of remaining workers to fewer than 600. The factory now produces only about 230 vehicles a day.
 On a clear, mild Thursday afternoon in April, I stood among the smattering of cars, mostly American-made pickup trucks and sport-utility vehicles, clustered together in a small section of Pontiac Assembly's vast parking lot as the plant's single shift ended and its employees trickled out. Among them was Marvin Powell, a tall, heavyset, African-American man in blue jeans, a green sweatshirt and a baseball cap that read ''All-Star Dad.'' We were going to throw horseshoes with some of his co-workers in a park next to their union hall, Local 594, but as Powell climbed into his Chevy Equinox, he told me he wanted to grab something to eat first.
 ''You didn't have lunch?'' I asked.
 ''I did, but that was at 10 o'clock,'' Powell said.
 Powell wakes up every morning at 4, showers, eats breakfast and watches SportsCenter before setting out for the plant at 5:30. He is stationed at the very end of what's known as the final line, the last stage of the vehicle-assembly process. By the time a truck arrives at his position, its frame has been attached to the chassis and the engine is in place. Powell has 1 minute 40 seconds to perform his routine on each vehicle, a series of tasks that includes attaching cables to batteries, tightening nuts and bolts and installing a transmission dipstick.
 Barack Obama has called the dying U.S. auto industry ''an emblem of the American spirit,'' but Powell speaks about what he does without romance or nostalgia. ''It's not a glamorous job, to say the least,'' he told me as we settled into a booth at a nearby Arby's. Still, Powell derives at least a little satisfaction from his work. ''Do I feel a sense of pride when I spot a Silverado or Sierra on the road?'' he said. ''Yeah. I do.''
 More to the point, he is grateful for the life the job has afforded him. There are the little things -- the Saturday-night takeout, the flat-screen TV, the Caribbean cruise he and his wife took before they had kids, the trip to Disney World after, the high-end educational toys for his precocious 5-year-old son, Marvin II -- and the bigger ones. Most notably, Powell was able to leave the city of Detroit, where he was born and raised, for Kingsley Estates, a quiet subdivision in Southfield, a racially integrated suburb of modest middle-class homes just north of the city. And his wife, Shirese, was able to quit her job to spend more time with their children and start a small day-care center in their house.
 When Powell and I met outside Pontiac Assembly, the mood inside the plant was especially tense. Just a day before, the line was stopped early for a plantwide meeting on the factory floor. A G.M. executive had recently spent a day touring the plant to determine its future, and the guys wanted to know if any decisions had been made. Would they be bringing back any of the laid-off workers? Were there going to be more layoffs? Was the plant going to close?
 The plant manager did his best to reassure everybody but offered no definitive answers. By the time most of the plant's employees got home, however, local news outlets were reporting that General Motors would be shutting down all of its factories for as many as 10 weeks this summer.
 ''People are worried about everything right now,'' one of Powell's co-workers, Stanley Hutcheson, told me at the horseshoe pit. Hutcheson was born and raised in Newark and came to Pontiac in 2002, when there were more than 900 layoffs at his plant in Linden, N.J. Given all of the uncertainty surrounding Detroit and the Big Three, I asked him if he thought about moving back home and looking for another job. ''Nah,'' he said. ''There's no money out there for me. G.M. is here.''
 Later that night, I asked Powell how he was going to manage while Pontiac Assembly was idle. ''It's going to be extremely tight,'' he said. Powell earns more than $900 a week. Between his government unemployment and his supplemental G.M. unemployment benefits -- or SUB-pay -- guaranteed under the company's contract with the U.A.W., he'll make $700 a week while Pontiac Assembly is quiet, not quite enough to cover his family's bills. He was hoping that the write-offs for his wife's home-based business would yield a large enough tax refund to make up for the shortfall.
 The idling of its plants was part of G.M.'s scramble to make a case for its continued viability by cutting costs in advance of a government-imposed deadline. The company, which is considerably larger than Ford and Chrysler, has since filed for bankruptcy. Because of G.M.'s size, the government-orchestrated restructuring is going to be particularly painful. It remains to be seen what, exactly, the future of General Motors will hold, but it's unlikely to include many $28-an-hour assembly-line jobs like Marvin Powell's.
 When we talk about what the end of the U.S. auto industry will mean to thousands of autoworkers, we tend to have a specific image of that worker in mind: He's a conservative white Democrat who lives in suburban Detroit, hangs out in his local union hall, belongs to a bowling league and owns a hunting cabin in the Upper Peninsula. This is the iconic American autoworker. In fact, as much as a fifth of the industry's work force is African-American. 
 The story of the rise of America's black working and middle classes is inextricably bound up with that of Detroit and the Big Three. It is not a story with a simple upward trajectory. For a long time, blacks were relegated to the least desirable jobs in the plants and initially confined to a small ghetto on the East Side of the city. But slowly, haltingly, over the course of the 1950s and early '60s, the plants became fully integrated and black workers spread across Detroit block by block, moving the city's de facto color line as they went. ''It wasn't that long ago that Detroit was the home of the nation's most affluent African-American population with the largest percentage of black homeowners and the highest comparative wages,'' David Goldberg, an African-American Studies professor at Wayne State University, told me.
 Autoworkers still make up much of what is left of Detroit's black middle class, but their numbers are shrinking fast. Last year, 20,000 black autoworkers nationwide were either laid off or took buyouts from the Big Three. A disproportionate number of those workers were from Detroit and its environs. When those who remain lose their jobs, have their homes foreclosed -- Detroit has one of the highest foreclosure rates in the nation -- and have to move elsewhere in search of work, when they accept an early-retirement package and no longer have any reason to stick around, that will truly spell the end of the city.
 We've been hearing this phrase -- ''the death of Detroit'' -- for years now, but this is what it's going to look like, how it's going to play out. There's a perverse paradox here, one that I was reminded of every time I met a black autoworker in an Obama T-shirt or with an Obama bumper sticker adorning his or her car. We have just elected our first African-American president, and yet, at the same moment, a city and industry that together played a central role in the rise of the black middle class -- that made possible lives like Marvin Powell's -- is being destroyed. 
 A generation ago, it was a given that if you were a black man in Detroit, you worked in an auto plant. A job on the line was a birthright, reporting to the employment office of one of the Big Three a rite of passage. ''We called it 'getting baptized,' '' a retired African-American autoworker, General Baker, told me. 
 By the mid-1990s, though, with the Big Three losing market share and staggering under the weight of their union contracts, it became difficult to find assembly-line work in a plant, particularly if you didn't have a personal connection to the company. Hiring was governed almost exclusively by nepotism. If an automaker was looking to add workers, it invited existing employees to pass along a referral sheet -- essentially a one-page job application -- to a friend or relative. Nearly all of the autoworkers under the age of 40 whom I met in Detroit found their jobs through a family member.
 This is how Marvin Powell got his start. When his father, a longtime G.M. line worker, first offered to refer him to the company, Powell said he felt conflicted. Like many second-generation autoworkers, he had never envisioned working in a plant. ''I was going to make my money off my mind,'' Powell told me one night. We were sitting in a crowded sports bar in suburban Detroit, watching the Cleveland Cavaliers make short work of the Pistons in the first round of the N.B.A. playoffs. ''You figure when you're young, before you know anything about life, you'll go to college, get a degree and get a good job,'' he said. ''I wanted to be a TV anchor.'' Powell laughed. ''Working in a plant was a long way from being a TV anchor.''
 After high school, Powell enrolled at Wayne State University in Detroit and was planning to major in mass communications and broadcasting, but he dropped out halfway toward his degree. He wasn't the most focused student. What's more, he had a weakness for trendy clothes and racked up about $800 in credit-card debt. His father was already covering his tuition; Powell didn't want to ask him to pay off his credit cards too. And he was pretty sure his father wouldn't be willing to anyway.
 Out of college, Powell cycled through a series of jobs. He went to work for Foot Locker, first as a stock clerk and then in sales, made debt-collection calls for a finance company and did a stint in the mailroom of a bank. When the opportunity at G.M. arose in 1996, he was 26, already married and making $13 an hour as an office temp for I.B.M. The starting wage at General Motors was $13.65, and he would get a raise every six months. ''As I thought more about it, it became a no-brainer,'' he says. Powell submitted his referral sheet, and after a few simple tests -- math, reading comprehension, manual dexterity -- followed by a team-building exercise, a formal interview and a physical, he started working at Pontiac Assembly.
 Powell had no idea what to expect. He had been inside an auto factory only once, as a 10-year-old on family day at his father's plant, and his father had almost never talked about his job. After a weeklong orientation, he trained up and down the assembly line before being placed in a job attaching brake-fluid reservoirs. It was stressful at first. The line moved faster than he anticipated, and as a new hire who could be let go without cause during his first 90 days, he didn't want to be the one to slow it down. Adjusting to the culture of the factory was a challenge, too. A practicing Christian, Powell was taken aback by what he saw taking place around him. The plant was a world of temptations unto itself, with drugs, alcohol, numbers runners, bookies and even ''parking-lot girls'' who would come to the plant during lunch breaks to service male workers. ''Anything you can find outside the plant, you can find inside the plant,'' Powell says. ''You either get caught up in it, or stay apart from it.''
 Powell gradually settled in at Pontiac Assembly and was soon piling on as much overtime as he could. In a good week, he worked four 12-hour days and a 16-hour day. Overtime was especially abundant between the beginning of November and Christmas, when hunting season caused rampant absenteeism at the plant. Within two years, he was making $18 an hour, and he and his wife soon saved up enough to put 3 percent down on their $150,000 three-bedroom house in Southfield.
 Powell has tried periodically to get off the assembly line. Not long after he started at the plant, his foreman recommended him for management. Powell took the test, which uses hypothetical questions to gauge how you would respond to particular situations, but failed. ''I guess I could have given them the answers they wanted, but that's just not me,'' he told me. ''I'm going to be me -- I'm going to be honest -- I'm going to put down how I would do the job, and if that doesn't line up with what you like, then that's cool, I don't take offense at that. I'm just not what you like.'' A few years later, at his father's urging, Powell tried to become a skilled tradesman, which would at least have given him a more transferable skill. He failed that test as well.
 In the past few years, Powell watched a lot of people he knew leave the line at G.M. and elsewhere, courtesy of a variety of buyout packages. (Since 2007, G.M. has bought out nearly half of its workers in the U.S.; a total of more than 50,000 people.) For the most part, those who have opted to take these payouts were either nearing retirement age or were young enough to start a new career. A couple of years ago, Tim Slaughter, a friend of Powell's who recently turned 30, took an education buyout from Ford. The company paid $30,000 toward his tuition at a computer-training center, while continuing to provide benefits and 70 percent of his salary for two years. ''I could see the handwriting on the wall,'' Slaughter told me. 
 Slaughter now works as a computer technician at a school in Detroit. Even though he makes $20,000 less than he did on the line at Ford, he feels fortunate that he got out when he did. The Economic Policy Institute, a Washington research group, predicts that African-American unemployment in Michigan, which is already at 23 percent, may reach 28 percent by mid-2010. The Detroit-area job market is flooded with ex-autoworkers recently laid off or bought out by the Big Three. One 38-year-old former Chrysler employee I met, who accepted a buyout package last fall -- $50,000 and a $25,000 car voucher -- had burned through all of the cash by May and still hadn't been on a single job interview. I wondered how much longer he would be able to afford to put gas in the brand-new Aspen S.U.V. he bought with his voucher.
 Earlier this year Powell was offered $20,000 and a $25,000 car voucher to ''separate'' -- meaning no pension or benefits -- from G.M. Powell quickly did the math. Both the cash and the voucher were taxable, so he would actually only be getting $14,000, enough to cover some bills and his mortgage for a few months, but not much more than that. Plus, he would have to pay out of pocket for his family's medical coverage. The car voucher would only be worth $16,000 after taxes, not enough to buy a new vehicle without additional financing. Powell turned down the offer, essentially gambling that he wouldn't wind up being laid off and leaving G.M. with little more than his last paycheck.
 He now finds himself approaching 40 with a large mortgage and two small children. The job he didn't really want to begin with is one that he desperately needs but may very well not be able to hang onto. Yet he remains cheerful, even optimistic, convinced that whatever happens to G.M., he will be O.K. and eventually find a more satisfying career. ''I've always said I'm not a G.M. lifer,'' he says. ''I still aspire to do something more than work on an assembly line for 30 years.'' In fact, Powell already has something in mind: to become a chef and start his own catering company. ''I can cook just about anything,'' he told me. ''If it's written down, I can cook it.''
 Powell's positive outlook is largely a product of the life he leads outside the plant at the Greater Grace Temple, one of Detroit's largest, best-known churches. Among its claims to fame is that in the fall of 2005, more than 4,000 people, including former President Clinton, Aretha Franklin and an Illinois senator named Barack Obama, packed its pews for the funeral for the transplanted Detroiter Rosa Parks. (Parks came to Detroit in 1957, not long after famously refusing to vacate her bus seat, joining her brother, an auto-assembly-line worker who migrated North years earlier.)
 Powell teaches a Sunday-school class to young men and women at Greater Grace and is also one of the church's ''armor bearers.'' In the Bible, the term refers to men chosen for their loyalty and bravery to carry weapons for the king, but it has been repurposed by some black churches as a title for special assistants to their pastors. The job entails more than its share of grunt work -- moving furniture, pressing the pastor's pants, picking up the church's guests at the airport -- but the main task is spiritual. ''Our job is to cover the pastor in prayer,'' Powell says.
 On Sundays, Powell is at the church by 6:30 a.m. so that he and another armor bearer, a line worker at Ford, can be sure all of the pastor's needs have been met for the 7:30 service. Powell also spends one or two evenings a week at the church, either for Bible study or for one of Greater Grace's numerous other Christian-themed classes. Recently I went with him to a workshop, ''The Seven Seasons of a Man's Life,'' designed to help men cope with the emotional adversity they will invariably encounter in life. The seminar was part of the church's ongoing effort to beef up its men's ministry in response to the economic crisis affecting so many of its male members. ''What happens most of the time with men is that we don't really talk about stuff,'' James Edwards, an associate pastor of the church, told the group, by way of introduction. ''We don't have that ability to go into an environment and really open up as men, and because we don't we kind of go into a cave. This program is about trying to keep us from going into that cave.''
 He proceeded to lead the assembled men through the first ''season'': reflection. ''The key of it is, in dealing with what we have to deal with, and contending with what we have to contend with as men -- particularly now -- is that we have to learn how to be O.K. with whatever we have done well and whatever we have not done well,'' he said. ''We have two choices. We can embrace our lives or we can live a life of disappointment and really miss the whole thing. I mean, who has done everything right? Only Jesus has done everything right. The rest of us have missed somewhere along the way.''
 When the workshop was over, Powell and I stood in the church's parking lot and talked for a few minutes. He told me he had been struck in particular by something Edwards said about the importance of having someone in your life who will help you see your own shortcomings. ''I've always been that brutally honest friend to everybody else, but it's been difficult for me to find that person who can be brutally honest with me,'' Powell said. ''It just seems that everybody who comes to me comes to glean, not to give.''
 In a sense, Powell has brought this on himself. He advertises the fact that he is a person of faith -- his personalized license plate reads ''SHOWLUV'' -- and has embraced the role of spiritual leader, not only at Greater Grace but at Pontiac Assembly, where he runs a lunch-hour Bible study group three days a week.
 Powell is a popular figure at Pontiac Assembly. Some of his co-workers have encouraged him to run for office at their local, and people often ask him what he thinks is going to happen to the plant and what he intends to do if it closes. ''No. 1, I tell them that I can't worry about what I can't control; no matter what I say or do, I can't keep the plant open,'' Powell says. ''And No. 2, I tell them that God provides for his own, and I am one of his own.''
 Powell delivers the same message in his Bible class at the plant. Recently he has returned repeatedly to Isaiah 6:1, in which Isaiah recounts how the death of King Uzziah inspired him to join the prophetic ministry: ''In the year that King Uzziah died, I saw the Lord sitting on a throne, high and lifted up, and his train filled the temple.'' Powell tells his co-workers that G.M. is just like King Uzziah, an earthly entity whom people put their trust in but who ultimately failed them. ''In the year King Uzziah died I saw the Lord -- my focus shifted to the Lord,'' Powell says. ''In the year G.M. became a bankrupt company, my focus shifted to the Lord.''
 In the aftermath of Detroit's polarizing 1967 riots, the steady stream of white residents who were already leaving the city turned into a torrent. Yet many middle-class blacks opted to stay behind. Most of the suburbs remained off limits to African-Americans; what's more, the 1973 election of Detroit's first black mayor, Coleman Young -- himself a former Ford line worker -- seemed like cause for renewed optimism. But in the 1980s, as crime rates soared, the quality of schools and services plummeted and the number of crack houses multiplied, more and more middle-class blacks abandoned the city for the suburbs, or in some cases, left the Detroit area altogether.
 For now at least, Powell's mother and father remain in the city; they still live in the house on Curtis Street that Powell grew up in. One recent Friday afternoon, not long after Powell's shift at the plant ended, I went with him to drop off his children -- Marvin, now 5, and Victoria, who is 18 months -- at his parents' for the night.
 Unlike most major metropolitan areas in the Northeast, which were designed for maximum density, Detroit rose in the age of the automobile. This helped create a sprawling city of detached, single-family homes. As Powell and I drove through it, I saw the images of the postapocalyptic city to which we've all become accustomed: the deserted streets, overgrown lots and empty storefronts with boarded-up windows and faded signs for long-closed stores and restaurants like Pick 'n Party, Jet King Chop Suey and African hair braiding. As familiar as these images have become (just punch ''Detroit'' and ''urban decay'' into YouTube to see them), it's only when you're actually riding around Detroit and can see that this goes on for block after block, mile after mile, that the profundity of this idea -- the death of a city -- really sets in. 
 Powell's parents live on a residential street of redbrick homes fronted by small lawns. As we approached the house, Powell spotted his father, Augustine, a trim, fit man of 70, leaning on their fence in a dark T-shirt, blue jeans and a black U.A.W. baseball cap. ''I feel very fortunate,'' Powell told me, pulling into his parents' narrow driveway. ''I could have had the same situation that a lot of young men have out here. I could have a father who was a deadbeat, who had babies and left. But I had parents who sacrificed a lot for me and gave me good examples of how I should treat my family.''
 Augustine and I went inside and talked while Powell went out to pick up a pizza. Powell's mother, Marva, soon joined us, while his son drew pictures of the animals from ''Madagascar.''
 Augustine and Marva met in the early 1960s at Tuskegee University, a historically black college in Alabama. Marva came from rural Georgia, the only one of six sisters to finish college; Augustine lived near the school and worked in its cafeteria. Each of their families, like many in the South, farmed. Not long after they started dating, Augustine was drafted into the military. He and Marva corresponded by mail while he was in the service and were married in 1964 after he returned to Alabama.
 At the time, opportunities were limited for African-Americans in the South: Marva hadn't been able to keep a job at a dry cleaner because too many customers complained about having a black woman handle their clothing. They moved briefly to Brooklyn before making their way to Detroit in 1966.
 They were among some six and a half million African-Americans who left the South from 1910 to 1970 in what became known as the Great Migration. They were drawn to the North by the promise of equal treatment but also by the hope of finding work: the mechanization of agriculture, in particular the advent of the cotton picker, decimated black employment in the South. As Nicholas Lemann wrote in his 1991 book, ''The Promised Land,'' what in fact awaited most blacks was a more subtle form of discrimination. But in Detroit at least, there were the auto plants. Ford started hiring African-Americans in 1914, offering them the same $5-a-day wage it paid its white employees, even as it limited them to sweeping the floors and pouring hot steel in sweltering foundries. To discourage African-American employees from improving their lot by unionizing, the company offered free coal to ministers of black churches who preached the Ford gospel.
 Black migration surged during World War II, when Detroit's auto plants were transformed into F.D.R.'s so-called arsenal of democracy. The sudden influx of African-Americans dovetailed with the birth of the modern civil rights movement. The nascent United Auto Workers and the local branch of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People made common cause, conducting sit-ins, condemning hate strikes -- the practice of workers walking off the job to protest the hiring of a black employee for a traditionally white job -- and ensuring that black workers would be protected by the same contracts that covered white employees. The bond between the labor and civil rights movements was solidified in 1961, when the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. was invited to speak at the annual A.F.L.-C.I.O. convention. ''Negroes are almost entirely a working people,'' he said. ''Our needs are identical with labor's needs: decent wages, fair working conditions, livable housing, old-age security, health and welfare measures, conditions in which families can grow and have education for their children and respect in the community.'' 
 Augustine was making bearings for an auto-parts supplier within days of the Powells' arrival in Detroit. He eventually moved on to General Motors, where he would stay for nearly 34 years until accepting a buyout package in 2006.
 He and Marva, a dietitian, bought their house in a racially mixed neighborhood in northwest Detroit in 1968. In a matter of years, the neighborhood was predominantly black. Even as the city around them continued to spiral downward, theirs remained a stable, working-class neighborhood. By the 1980s, abandoned houses were being torched less than two miles south of them, but their neighbors kept up their homes, mowed their lawns and washed their cars. In the late '90s, though, their neighborhood also became overrun with drugs and crime. Recently its problems have been compounded by the epidemic of bank foreclosures spreading through the city. In the past few months alone, several of their neighbors, including a laid-off Ford employee, have lost their homes. More will doubtless follow as the auto industry continues to contract.
 In a sense, Powell's father spent his life on the assembly line so his children wouldn't have to. On his G.M. salary, he was able to send both Powell and his older brother to Catholic school and to put away money for their college funds. (Powell's brother, Aaron, attended Winston-Salem State University on a basketball scholarship, but never graduated and now works at a Pepsi bottling plant in Detroit.)
 When I asked Powell's parents if they ever imagined that Powell would one day end up on an assembly line like his father, Marva answered instantly: ''No.'' Powell was back now, feeding Victoria in a bouncy seat in the living room. His mother gestured toward him. ''He's sitting right there, and I don't mind if he hears this -- I had desires for him to finish school,'' she said.
 I asked Marva what sort of career she imagined him pursuing. ''Marvin had a gift of gab -- still does,'' she said. ''I thought he could probably do some English teaching, maybe even become a lawyer.'' She paused. ''Of course, he's making more than most college grads. They're trying to take it from him, though.''
 Powell's faith may be helping him weather the G.M. storm, but his parents are plainly worried about him and his family. Augustine and Marva are planning to move back to the South soon, probably to Dublin, Ga., the small town where Marva was born and raised. They are going to hold on to their house, though. It's unlikely they could find a buyer, and even if they could it would hardly be worth it: the last house that sold in their neighborhood went for $5,000, which is $10,000 less than what they paid for theirs in 1968. But Powell's parents want to make sure he and his family will have a place to live if he is laid off. ''I'm hoping they won't need it,'' Marva told me. ''But you do what you've got to do.''
 One afternoon in Detroit, I went to meet Greater Grace's pastor, Charles H. Ellis III, in his office. The church sprawls across the 19-acre site of an abandoned amusement park on the city's West Side. With its well-tended lawn and freshly painted playground -- part of ''God's Graceland Park'' -- Greater Grace's $35 million campus beckons like an oasis on an otherwise barren strip of Seven Mile Road.
 I found Ellis, a young-looking 50, in a mock turtleneck and slacks, sitting in an unusual black leather desk chair. It took me a moment to place it: it was a driver's seat from the interior of a Cadillac Escalade that had been refashioned into an office chair. ''It was a 50th-birthday present from one of my congregants who works for an auto supplier,'' Ellis told me. ''The seat heater works and everything.''
 Ellis grew up in Detroit, the son of a popular minister. He remembers numerous families coming from the South and staying in his parents' basement until they were hired at an auto plant and could afford a place of their own. ''This was the land of milk and honey,'' he said. ''Once you get on that phone with someone who says, 'Man, you can make $250 a week up here!' who wasn't coming?''
 Ellis now lives in Bloomfield Hills, a posh, predominantly white suburban enclave historically popular among Big Three executives. His church remains deeply committed to Detroit, though. It hosts an annual back-to-school rally, at which children are given free school supplies and haircuts, and every Easter thousands of Detroiters flock to Greater Grace for its free Passion play, which features live animals and elaborate special effects for Jesus' scourging and crucifixion.
 In December of last year, as Congress was debating whether to bail out the car companies, Greater Grace conducted a special service for autoworkers. As a kind of warm-up act, two African-American U.A.W. senior vice presidents urged the audience to join the union's prayers for deliverance. Ellis followed with a sermon titled ''A Hybrid Hope,'' delivered against the backdrop of three U.S.-made hybrid S.U.V.'s. ''For those who do not believe that this is a spiritual message,'' he began, the S.U.V.'s looming behind him on the altar, ''I would suggest to you that it was the automobile industry that proved to be a catalyst for an underprivileged man, unlearned not due to his intellect but in large part due to the inequities of an educational system in a segregated society.''
 As he spoke, Ellis grew increasingly emotional, occasionally pausing to mop his forehead with a blue towel. ''We're saying to America and to the government and to the leaders . . . 'These are the faces of our fathers and our mothers and our grandfathers who sweat and bled and died trying to make an honest living, and we will not let you turn your back and pretend that we don't exist!' ''
 Ellis's cadence gradually became more rhythmic as he built toward his climax. Half-singing, half-preaching, he told worshipers that it was not enough just to hope that the government would help them; they needed a hybrid hope, one that was equal parts hope and faith. The entire congregation -- it was a cold, snowy Sunday in Detroit, but the church was packed -- was on its feet, arms raised as people shouted out ''amens'' at Ellis. ''When you see me dancing, it's not because everything is like I want it to be,'' he said, the choir now giving him a beat to sway to. ''I'm dancing with a hybrid hope, because I've got a faith beyond this world.'' When he was finished, he called the hundreds of autoworkers and retirees in attendance to the altar and anointed them with holy oil.
 As with so many things connected to Detroit -- the 0-16 Lions; the spectacle of auto executives flying to Washington in private jets to beg Congress for a taxpayer-financed bailout; the ''Wire''-worthy tale of its recently deposed mayor, Kwame Kilpatrick (who pleaded guilty to two counts of obstruction of justice and resigned his office after a sex scandal involving the woman who had been his chief of staff) -- the ''Hybrid Hope'' service likely came across to anyone reading about it or seeing coverage of it on TV as another spectacularly misguided, comically desperate and, at bottom, self-serving gesture. After all, nearly half of the church's 6,000 members work either for an American carmaker or for a company whose fate is directly linked to the Big Three. As goes the U.S. auto industry, so goes Greater Grace, which depends on its members to tithe, or donate 10 percent of their earnings to the church.
 But Ellis is a skillful preacher, and his message clearly resonated with those for whom it was intended. ''When I was a kid, you heard you could get a job at the plant,'' Powell told me when I asked him about the service. ''It's a good job, it's secure, people are always going to buy cars. People who never saw this coming, who do they look to now? For Pastor Ellis to really feel that sense of despair and to act on it in what some people would think of as a grand way, I think it inspired a lot of hope.''
 There is a long history of Detroit's black ministers joining forces with the U.A.W. to advance the interests of African-American autoworkers. During the 1930s and '40s, two of Detroit's black religious leaders, Rev. Charles Hill and Rev. Horace White, were instrumental in persuading the city's black autoworkers to embrace an integrated U.A.W. as the surest route to dignity and economic security.
 Ellis is now watching this historic experiment come unraveled one laid-off parishioner at a time. ''The problem that I have is that most people, because of pride, don't want to tell me they're in trouble,'' Ellis told me. ''They come here on Sunday morning in a suit, and I say, 'How you doing?' 'I'm blessed and I'm highly favored of God,' they answer. I don't know they're 30 days from being evicted. If I know early enough, I can help them make the most out of a bad situation. Now there's nothing I can do except help them get a U-Haul truck and find a place to store their stuff.''
 On a practical level, Ellis has been trying to set an example for his parishioners -- he recently downsized from his Escalade to a Chrysler Sebring -- as well as add more relevant programs for struggling congregants. An accounting major at Wayne State, he gives regular seminars, or ''fireside chats,'' on how to avoid going into debt. The church has also beefed up its entrepreneur's ministry, which encourages laid-off congregants to avoid the job market altogether and instead start businesses of their own.
 But Ellis is focused, foremost, on lifting spirits and bolstering faith. Even when his sermons don't overtly address the economic crisis affecting his congregation, the subject is never far away. One recent Sunday morning, I heard him deliver a sermon called ''Peace in the Midst of Uncertainty.'' (''If your faith were brakes right now they'd be worn down to the nubs.'') Afterward, Ellis told the congregation he just returned from guest-lecturing at Harvard Divinity School. ''I was talking to a professor there, trying to get my son in, I asked him, 'What do you have to do; how much does it cost?' He said, '$40,000,' '' Ellis said. ''I was like, $40,000? $40,000? . . . But you come out of there, you can write your own ticket. Barack done opened the door: You can be the president of the free world!'' The audience erupted in ''amens.''
 As bad as things may be outside the doors of Greater Grace, the mood inside the church was relentlessly upbeat. The sense of optimism, of possibility, conveyed by Ellis and powerfully reinforced by a huge tapestry that was on display in the hallway outside the sanctuary depicting Obama, King and Harriet Tubman -- ''From Slavery to the White House'' -- is infectious. But nourishing this hope, at this moment and in this city, can mean keeping reality at bay.
 After the service, I drifted into a workshop for aspiring entrepreneurs called ''Financial Crisis 2009: Birthing Your Dream.'' The woman running the session, Deborah Glass, retired several years ago from Ford Motor's credit company and now operates her own marketing company, selling body garments intended to reshape women's figures. Glass told the group that the key to success was to stop thinking negative thoughts.
 A woman in the audience raised her hand. ''I work for a supplier for G.M.,'' she said. ''Every day they're talking about G.M. on the news, how they're closing this plant or that plant.''
 Glass cut her off. ''You cannot listen to that. Whatever you keep hearing, you keep believing. You've got to protect your eyes and ears from that. I don't care what G.M. says or what Chrysler or Ford say.''
 Glass held up a Christian self-help book called ''Spiritual Desire.'' ''This would have been much more helpful to you than listening to that,'' she said.
 During his early years at Pontiac Assembly, Powell bowled regularly with a group of his co-workers at a seedy alley a mile or so from the plant called Fiero Bowl (infelicitously named after a short-lived G.M. sports car, the Pontiac Fiero). At $2 each, the games were cheap, and Powell always had a good time; he had a knack for leaving right before a fight invariably broke out. But he hasn't gone much recently. He prefers not to be around so much drinking and smoking, and he usually has to pick up his son at school anyway.
 Powell now does most of his bowling in a Saturday-morning church league. (His ball is engraved with the word ''prophetic.'') There's no drinking allowed, and every match begins with both teams joining hands in prayer, but it's otherwise just like any other bowling league, with good-natured trash talk and even some low-stakes betting.
 After one of his recent matches, Powell and I picked up a Slurpee for his son and a coffee for his wife and drove back to his house in Southfield. Detroit is now 85 percent black, and most of the suburbs I visited during my weeks there were either largely white or largely black, which made the diverse mix of people that we encountered as we made our way through Powell's subdivision all the more striking.
 Powell and his wife, Shirese, met at a church function when he was 18 and she was 22, and fell in love a year later. ''At the time, I was about 100 pounds lighter, I had a full head of curly hair -- I was good-looking, thin, I could wear the mess out of a suit,'' Powell told me as we arrived at their home, a modest ranch house with a well-tended front lawn. ''I had a lot of women approaching me, but the way they were approaching me let me know that's not what I wanted. But she was different. There was just so much more substance to her character.''
 Shirese and I sat down in their small living room, beside a box of overflowing toys, and talked. She told me that she was raised by a single mother, a home-health-care aide in Detroit. After graduating from a magnet high school in the city, Shirese said, she took out loans to attend Northwood University and soon transferred to Eastern Michigan University. During her sophomore year, she dropped out after souring on the party scene. She moved back home and started going to church. ''I remember sitting there thinking, There's something different about these people,'' she told me. ''I was like: Whatever it is that they have, I want it. I need it.''
 Shirese never went back to college. She worked at a credit-reporting company, first as a customer-service representative and then in sales before eventually becoming a mortgage broker. Several years ago, during the height of the mortgage boom, she was making close to six figures, she told me, but she wanted to spend more time with her son and start her own day-care center, Safe Haven. ''Nobody's taking the time to teach this younger generation to be well mannered and respectful,'' she said. ''I decided that instead of just complaining about it, I needed to be part of the solution. I needed to help groom the next generation.''
 At the moment, Safe Haven operates out of the Powells' basement, a small, dark space crowded with highchairs and plastic play tables that Shirese has done her best to spruce up with some colorful posters designed to teach the children their shapes and the days of the week. But she has visions of moving her center into a separate building and expanding, eventually becoming a full-fledged elementary school that would be based in Southfield but draw children from inner-city Detroit. ''I don't need to get the kids in Southfield; they have decent schools,'' she said. ''I want the ones who don't have any options, who are being crowded into classrooms like a herd of cattle.''
 Her motivation isn't solely philanthropic; Shirese has every intention of building a profitable business. ''I don't want my kids to have to struggle like me -- being raised by a single mother who didn't have a dime to send me to college,'' she told me. ''I want them to be able to enjoy their college life without having to worry about expenses and finances. And I want to buy them their first homes.''
 Shirese speaks as if she has no doubt that all of this -- and much more -- is about to happen. She is confident that Obama, in whom she recognizes a kindred spirit in faith, will help save Detroit. And she fully expects that she and Powell and the rest of ''God's people'' will all have their roles to play in the city's salvation. ''We're supposed to be part of the change that's taking place,'' she told me.
 Maybe the Powells are right. Maybe General Motors -- and Chrysler, for that matter -- will emerge from bankruptcy and once again become viable companies. Maybe Safe Haven will become, as Shirese puts it, ''a pillar of our community.'' Maybe Powell will one day have his own catering company. Maybe there is still hope for Detroit.
 But for the moment, the bad news just keeps coming. Two hours after Powell's shift started on the first Monday in June, the line was stopped for another plantwide meeting: Plant 6 would be shutting down for good on or before Oct. 1.
 Powell's only option now will be to put in for a transfer to one of the Detroit area's remaining G.M. plants and hope for an opening before his unemployment benefits and SUB-pay expire. ''They finally had enough integrity to tell us before they let the media know,'' he told me when his shift ended that afternoon, an uncharacteristic trace of bitterness in his voice. ''Nobody really knows what to think right now.''
 Within a matter of minutes, though, Powell recovered his more familiar optimism. There were a few factories that wouldn't be too bad a drive from Southfield, including Detroit/Hamtramck -- the plant where his father spent most of his career -- which is in a neighborhood once known as Poletown because of the large Polish population that lived there. ''Over time, I think I'll be O.K.,'' Powell said. ''The bottom line is that they still need people to run.''
 They do, but G.M. also needs to cut 20,000 jobs before emerging from bankruptcy. The number of plants in the Detroit area is dwindling; Pontiac Assembly is one of seven factories that G.M. expects to close in Michigan by the end of next year. Even Hamtramck is down to a single shift. There and elsewhere, there will be a deluge of applicants for a rapidly shrinking pool of line jobs.
 Talking to Powell, I was constantly torn between marveling at his faith, his stubborn belief that everything was going to work out, and the urge to tell him to look around, to read the paper on any given day, to see the train that's heading straight for him and so many others and try to make a viable plan for his future before it's too late. But what would that plan be? What if you were 38 and had spent the last 12 years doing one thing for a company and an industry that allowed your predecessors to escape the Jim Crow South, that gave generations of black workers a shot at dignity and their rightful place in the American middle class, that allowed you to buy a decent home in a neighborhood right next door to white families who had fled your city years before? Maybe it wasn't the job you dreamed of when you were 20, but it was what you did and what your father did and what you and almost everyone around you knew, and it had never failed you before. What would you do? How would you prepare for the loss of all that? It's a paralyzing notion. ''You've got to have the mind-set that you can achieve greatness,'' he told me once when we were talking about what sort of future he felt it possible to imagine for himself and Detroit. It would be nice to believe that will be enough. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Marvin Powell with his wife, children and parents at his home in Southfi eld, Mich.(pg. MM30)
(pg. MM31)
The Packard plant in Detroit closed in 1956. G.M. expects to shut as many as seven factories in Michigan by the end of next year.(pg. MM34)
(pg. MM35)
 Marvin Powell heading to work at the Pontiac Assembly Center on June 10, 2009, at 5:48 a.m.(pg. MM37)(PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); RETAILERS (78%); PICKUP TRUCKS (76%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (75%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (75%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (72%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (71%); EARLY RETIREMENT (66%); LAYOFFS (57%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); AMERICA'S CAR-MART INC (56%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (57%); CRMT (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS441120 USED CAR DEALERS (56%); SIC5521 MOTOR VEHICLE DEALERS (USED ONLY) (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2009



744 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; OBITUARIES; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 507 words

PERSON: Robert A. Derzon 

HEADLINE: Robert A. Derzon, Health Official, Dies at 78

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI

 BODY:
Robert A. Derzon, the first director of the federal agency that manages Medicare and Medicaid, died June 17 in Orangeville, Ontario, where he was visiting a friend. He was 78 and lived in Mill Valley, Calif. 
 The cause was swine flu, Mr. Derzon's son Mike said.
 Mr. Derzon, who had previously been deputy commissioner of New York City's Department of Hospitals, was chosen by President Jimmy Carter in 1977 to head what was then called the Health Care Financing Administration. Now called the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, the agency was created in March 1977 to coordinate the two programs, which since they were created in 1965 had essentially been run separately. Medicare, for the most part, provides health insurance for people 65 and over, and Medicaid provides insurance for poor people.
 In his two years as director, Mr. Derzon faced the difficult task of minimizing fraud and abuse in the programs and the apparently insurmountable task of slowing the soaring rate of hospital cost increases. His cost-cutting suggestions were sometimes controversial.
 In a memo sent on June 4, 1977, to Joseph A. Califano Jr., the secretary of Health, Education and Welfare at the time, Mr. Derzon suggested that the federal government adopt a ''living will'' law similar to one enacted by California. Living wills permit patients to authorize their doctors to terminate life-support systems when there is no chance for a cure or recovery. He also favored Medicaid financing of abortions for mothers on welfare. 
 Throughout his career, Mr. Derzon was a proponent of universal health care coverage. In 1969, when he was first deputy commissioner of New York City's Hospitals Department, he told a state legislative committee that the existing method of paying for health and hospital care was ''a disaster.''
 ''The vast majority of our population in suburban, urban and rural areas is not receiving convenient and economically produced quality health services,'' he said. Because of Medicaid cutbacks, he added, hospitals that had expanded health services to the poor in the city were ''on the brink of fiscal disaster.''
 Robert Alan Derzon was born in Milwaukee on Dec. 30, 1930, one of two sons of Matthew and Mildred Gordon Derzon. Mr. Derzon graduated from Dartmouth in 1953 and received a master's degree in 1955 from the Amos Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth. In 1956, he received a master's degree in public health administration from the University of Minnesota.
 From 1960 to 1966, Mr. Derzon was associate director of the New York University Medical Center. He was first deputy commissioner of New York's hospital department from 1966 to 1969 and acting commissioner in 1970. Before being appointed to the federal post, he was director of the University of California's medical school hospital in San Francisco.
 Mr. Derzon's wife of 54 years, the former Margo Harris, died in 2002. Besides his son Mike, he is survived by another son, James; a daughter, Andrea Merenluoto; his brother, Gordon; and nine grandchildren. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); LIVING WILLS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); HOSPITALS (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (84%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); MEDICAID (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); H1N1 INFLUENZA (72%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (67%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (66%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (66%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR MEDICARE & MEDICAID SERVICES (83%)

JIMMY CARTER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

CATEGORY: Medicine and Health, Politics and Government (U.S.)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2009



745 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ABOUT NEW YORK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: Trend and Tradition Meet at a Queens Farm

BYLINE: By JIM DWYER. 
E-mail: dwyer@nytimes.com

 BODY:
The event was a fancy corporate dinner in a public garden on the Lower East Side, a celebration of locally grown food. The second course listed on the menu was ''grilled Queens farm pork loin,'' which sounded as if the dish had been created by someone from Queens.
 Then a man pulled up a chair and was introduced as Michael Grady Robertson from the Queens farm, provider of the pork. 
 Meaning what?
 ''We raise pigs,'' Mr. Robertson said. 
 In Queens?
 He smiled. ''We've got a 47-acre farm,'' Mr. Robertson said. ''It used to be part of the Creedmoor psychiatric hospital.''
 You're raising livestock in New York City?
 ''Come visit,'' he said.
 A few mornings later, Mr. Robertson turned his pickup truck off Little Neck Parkway and drove down the lane of the Queens County Farm Museum. In the truck bed were two 55-gallon barrels of mashed grain that he had just picked up from the Brooklyn Brewery in Greenpoint.
 For brewing purposes, the grain was spent. But for the pigs and a single ancient cow on the Queens farm, the hops and wheat and malt make a lip-smacking addition to their troughs.
 Once a week Mr. Robertson, the farm's director of agriculture, picks up the mash in a casual barter for pork and vegetables.
 Just about a year ago, the Queens farm began keeping tiny herds of sheep and goats, along with the pigs, for what are called ''productive purposes'' -- farm-speak for wool, milk and meat. The museum always had animals but they were merely decor for legions of visiting school kids.
 ''As far as I know, it's the only farm in the city that's raising livestock for productive purposes,'' Mr. Robertson said. 
 By some estimates, people have been farming in what's now New York for 3,000 years. On this land a few blocks south of the Grand Central Parkway in eastern Queens, descendants of Dutch settlers began raising crops and animals more than three centuries ago.
 The astoundingly large parcel survived intact because the state bought the land in 1926 to supply food to the hospital known as the Creedmoor Psychiatric Center. When the state declared the land surplus in 1973, neighbors rallied to shield it from development, and it became the property of the city's Department of Parks and Recreation. A nonprofit group leased 12 of the acres, including a house built in 1772, to create the Queens County Farm Museum. 
 The place pulses with agrarian life. Hens peck in the yard, 200 clucking strong. Mulberries fattened by the June rains droop from tree branches. The pigs -- a ''heritage heirloom'' variety fattier and tastier than those produced in hog factories -- root. Workers harvest vegetables. 
 Bent over a row of cucumbers, Keha McIlvaine, 27, spread a golden blossom and peered into it. ''Six pairs of mating cucumber beetles,'' she announced. ''They're living it up in the blossoms.''
 Not anymore: she crumpled the blossom. Ms. McIlvaine and others in the crew packed baskets with cucumbers, lemon squash, broccoli, kale, cabbage, turnips and fava beans. Later in the year, apples, peaches, pears and plums will be gathered from a two-acre orchard established in 1771. An acre of vineyard is being planted with blackberries, raspberries and table grapes, replacements for French grapes that had only mixed success; after all, this is not Bordeaux, France, but Bellerose, Queens. 
 Mr. Robertson, 34, who grew up in the suburbs of Kansas City, Kan., came to the Queens farm 18 months ago, having spent five years learning sustainable farming in Texas and upstate New York.
 ''We're getting ready to lease about another 35 acres from the parks department, and we had a discussion about taking advantage of the land,'' Mr. Robertson said. Much of it has gone to bramble, but the goats and pigs would clear it in no time, he said. 
 ''This could become an economic engine,'' Mr. Robertson said. ''We have a kitchen. We have 47 acres.'' 
 The farm has a stall on Fridays at the Union Square Greenmarket, and beginning July 8 will sell vegetables and pork Wednesdays through Sundays at the farm. Some of the meat is sold directly for special events like the dinner in the garden on the Lower East Side, which was sponsored by the Robert Mondavi wine company to benefit the American Community Garden Association, or at Sunday's Unfancy Food Show in Williamsburg, Brooklyn.
 Picking through the cucumbers, Ms. McIlvaine found a turkey egg. When farms all but vanished from the city in the last 50 years, the memory did not. ''People are always telling me they remember farms in the city when they were young,'' she said. ''It seems strange now to be farming here, but that's really the way it always has been.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: LOCAVORES REJOICE Harvesting lettuce at the Queens County Farm Museum, which has a variety of livestock as well as crops.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ULI SEIT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PORK (90%); HOG & PIG FARMING (89%); ANIMALS (89%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (89%); ANIMAL FARMING & BREEDING (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (88%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); MOTOR VEHICLES (68%); BREWERIES (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2009



746 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS TO THE PUBLIC EDITOR; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1153 words

HEADLINE: Other Voices: Skeptics Abound

BYLINE: By CLARK HOYT

 BODY:
Re ''What Happened to Skepticism?'' (June 7):
 In his critique of Elisabeth Bumiller's article ''1 in 7 Detainees Rejoined Jihad, Pentagon Finds,'' Clark Hoyt seriously underplays The New York Times's culpability in promoting Pentagon propaganda. Ms. Bumiller didn't do the homework, period.
 Mark Denbeaux, the Seton Hall professor mentioned by Mr. Hoyt, had exposed the Pentagon lies about Guantanamo detainees being ''the worst of the worst'' way back at an April 2007 Senate hearing that anyone can look up on the Internet. He and his Seton Hall students found that of the total of 759 prisoners at Guantanamo at that time, 60 percent were not even accused of being fighters for or members of either Al Qaeda or the Taliban. And in January 2009 on Rachel Maddow's MSNBC show, he showed evidence that the Pentagon had changed the number of those who had returned to the battlefield 43 different times, in part because no serious effort was made to even ascertain if they had been enemy combatants. That alone should have made Ms. Bumiller skeptical of Pentagon numbers. 
 It would seem obvious that this was part of a concerted Pentagon propaganda campaign to justify its war on terror, which The New York Times did not seriously investigate. 
 HARLAN GREEN Santa Barbara, Calif., June 8, 2009
 In what appears to be a rush for the sensational story, a story that would increase readership and thus advertisement sales, the opposite will probably be the case. The ''one in seven'' was dazzle. The ''one in 20'' was an educated though still unqualified guess. The result: The Times lost some more credibility. 
 The timing of this story is too suspicious to ignore. How many more times will Dick Cheney play The Times like this: Leak information anonymously to newspapers. ... Cite the newspaper stories on the leaks as if they were independently verified information. ... Rinse, repeat.
 The follow-up stories on the mistake never have the impact that the original error has. The follow-ups look more like The Times is pandering to the left after the fact.
 I smelled a rat right from the start. I am incredulous that nobody else did.
 DANIEL NEWSOME Elizaville, N.Y., June 7, 2009
 You are correct with your basic thesis that all reports using statistical analysis should be viewed with some skepticism. Your Op-Ed article, though, goes only in one direction. The question is not whether the recidivism rate for those released from Guantanamo is one in seven or one in 20 or maybe only one in a hundred. There is the very strong possibility that it is substantially higher than the one in seven. 
 Since terrorism is a clandestine activity, there is no way that the authorities could determine who among those released were participants. You have to accept that there are terrorists of whom we are not aware. Also, if we assume that those released were the least committed, whatever the current rate is, the rate of recidivism for the remaining prisoners would probably be higher. 
 ABRAHAM IRWIN Passaic, N.J., June 7, 2009
 While it's gratifying that you called The Times to task for its treatment of the Pentagon report on Guantanamo, your criticism misses the most egregious error in the coverage. The problem was that the story failed to report the Pentagon study in the context of the national debate.
 While George W. Bush and, more recently, Dick Cheney have said repeatedly that Guantanamo makes us safer, others maintain that far from making us safer, it actually creates terrorists and feeds the radicalization of Islam. And here in this report is proof. The headline should have read, ''Gitmo Feeds Terrorism,'' with the subhead, ''Turns Formerly Peaceful Muslims into Terrorists.'' When the Times reported this as it did, it not only misinformed us, it obscured a greater truth. 
 It does no good to issue mea culpas if The Times repeats the same kind of dangerous misreporting over and over again. No doubt, the Web has contributed to the decline of the newspaper's fortunes, but I, for one, quit buying The Times because this kind of gross incompetence kept popping up, and the errors were always slanted in a direction that suggests pandering to conservatives in order to be balanced. I don't want my news balanced: I want it accurate, truthful, well-researched and placed in context. 
 JOHN ATCHESON Rockville, Md., June 7, 2009
 Who Pays for Journalism?
 Re ''Putting a Price on News'' (June 21): 
 I have remained a loyal customer for so long because I believe in putting my money where it does the most good. I want to contribute to the rejuvenation of The Times because I am selfish and know the paper serves me and our country well and could serve us both better with more resources. 
 Please do this: Give anyone in the world access to the first two or three paragraphs of every article and let people have complete access by going to a library, buying a hard copy or paying $10 a month with automatic billing. Let people buy a one-day subscription for $1 or so, and maybe a single week for $5. Do not charge by the article or the time we are logged in to The Times. I will happily pay $120 a year for The Times, but won't pay 50 cents or $1 per article -- without very careful consideration. If I paid by the article and read one that I thought was a waste, I would be mad at The Times for selling me something with a slick title and worthless content. 
 As a reader for more than 50 years, I ought to be given some consideration. My generation isn't dead yet -- and we may be the only one with any loose cash. 
 STEVE DeLAPP Lake Elmo, Minn., June 20, 2009
 I couldn't help but chuckle as I read (on my Kindle) your column about The Times's need to raise its rates as its struggle continues for economic equilibrium in our brave new media world. As a former print edition subscriber, I immediately resubscribed to The Times when I got my new electronic reader, and I consider $14 per month to be a fair price. I admit to struggling with paying even that reasonable rate, though, because I can't help but feeling like a dope when I see the very same content (and then some!) that I pay for being given away by The Times for free to anyone who surfs to your Web site.
 Maybe it's just my political persuasion -- another reason I struggle with my Times subscription, by the way -- but I am tired of always having to pay more to subsidize those who pay nothing. After all, as we're fond of asking here in Wisconsin, ''Why buy the cow when you can get the milk for free?'' 
 CHRIS GEARY Racine, Wis., June 21, 2009
 You talk about plans to charge for Web access. I understand it. I can't afford it. I rely on The New York Times, but the hard copy has cost too much for a while now. If the Web access is a charge on a metered version, I will have to stop reading. 
 JUDITH FEINLEIB Belmont, Mass., June 21, 2009
 For additional letters to the public editor, go to nytimes.com/publiceditorsjournal.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); AL-QAEDA (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); TALIBAN (77%); RECIDIVISM RATES (74%); WAR ON TERROR (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (56%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (54%) CALIFORNIA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2009



747 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; PREOCCUPATIONS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 880 words

HEADLINE: You Scream, I Scream For a New Career

BYLINE: By VERA KUZYK. 
As told to Amy Mayer.

 BODY:
IN business school, owning my own business really was not on my radar. I wasn't against it, but some people in B-school are totally focused on the idea: ''I will own my own business at some point,'' they say. That wasn't me.
 In the summer between business-school years, I met Minoo Taheri, and later we ended up in the same training class of the private banking division at JPMorgan. Within the first year, we started joking about owning a business together. Eventually, we both left and did other things, but we stayed friends. Last year, while Minoo was working in new media and I was doing wealth management at a boutique private bank, we got serious. 
 The long hours on Wall Street, plus the commute -- I live in Montclair, N.J., with my husband and two small children -- had really worn me down. The lack of flexibility in my schedule was just not working for me. Going into business with a partner and having more control over my work life felt like the right change. 
 Both of us being business school graduates, we wanted to minimize risk, so we looked to buy an existing business instead of starting our own. We used an online service that led us to a pair of Haagen-Dazs shops in Manhattan that were up for sale.
 We hadn't ever considered ice cream franchises, but as we did our due diligence, we discovered that Haagen-Dazs was solid and stable and had some good support for its franchisees. We didn't know anything about ice cream -- other than that we liked it. We knew we would have a lot to learn, but what made me more comfortable about taking this plunge is that these shops had both been in business and successful for at least 25 years.
 Still, leaving my job a year ago was extremely frightening. The question of income loomed large. We did all kinds of calculations. What are the profit margins? What cost efficiencies can we deliver? Can we streamline the business? 
 There were a lot of spreadsheets. I laugh now because this has finally given us a chance to apply all those things we learned in business school but never got to use.
 Before we could complete the purchase, I attended Haagen-Dazs University in Minnesota. And then my life changed. 
 I remember the first day I walked into one of the shops, and both the employees and I knew that they knew far more about the business than I did -- they had already been working there. That provided motivation to get up to speed fast. They were used to an absentee owner, but this was not an investment. This was very much a new career for me.
 I am at the stores at least five days every week. I've taken an active role in employee management, and though that has been challenging I'm enjoying mentoring my shop managers, and I try to take cues from them. I introduce my ideas delicately and know that sometimes they'll be rebuffed. I respect my employees' habits and recommendations, too. 
 One thing I'm absolutely committed to is great customer service. If you're not focused on it you won't succeed in this type of business. Especially in a recession, I'm shocked by the number of service providers who don't pay more attention to customers.
 Looking back now, I can see that I got out of Wall Street at a great time. Even though I work more now, I'm in charge of how I manage my time. I know that if I'm working in my home office at 1 a.m. it's just as valuable as if I'm sitting in an office at 4:30 p.m., but that's not a choice I had as an employee. Also, I find that I'm much more productive because I work when I need to work and I still have time to do stuff with my kids.
 When my son told his preschool teacher that his mom owns an ice cream shop, she didn't believe him. Later, she asked me to make an ice cream presentation at the school, and I am thrilled that I can now do that sort of thing.
 We still have a nanny who works the same number of hours, but we adjusted them a little. She comes in late one morning so I can take my daughter to an early swim class -- and not have to drag this poor child to a class at 7:30 at night when she's tired. 
 Our nanny has been fabulous, and so has my husband. We rely on his income more, but he also gets more time with the kids. I often work on weekends, which really forces the issue of daddy time, and I think that's great. Certainly the transition has been stressful, but he's been incredibly supportive.
 Recently, Minoo also left her corporate job and is now much more involved in our daily operations, where at first she was doing mostly big-picture, behind-the-scenes work. We can now channel more energy into planning. That might involve buying a couple of more stores because any marketing we do is very easily transferable to multiple sites. But we don't want to become too big. We're looking at more business-to-business sales and catering as possible places for expansion, too. 
 IT'S been a year, and I have never looked back. I don't miss Wall Street at all. Once a week I bring home ice cream for my children -- they are big mango sorbet fans. The kids' absolute glee about the new career is fun, too. 
 Going from Wall Street to a very different business sector could have been a disaster if I'd jumped into a complicated, difficult business model. But, at the end of the day, it's a very simple business model. It's ice cream. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: As co-owner of two Haagen-Dazs franchises, Vera Kuzyk says that she has more control over her work life. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS EDUCATION (92%); FRANCHISING (89%); ICE CREAM (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); PRIVATE BANKING (76%); RETAILERS (74%); CHILDREN (73%); FRANCHISEES (69%); COMPANY PROFITS (61%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (57%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (57%); JPM (LSE) (57%); 8634 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (71%); MINNESOTA, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2009



748 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1303 words

HEADLINE: Slump Opens Spaces at the Station

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

DATELINE: ARDSLEY, N.Y. 

 BODY:
 Having lost his suburban job two months ago, Larry Blake is hunting for work in New York City and thinking about the ordeal of being a daily railroad commuter. That would mean applying for one of the precious permits given to Ardsley residents to park at the nearby Dobbs Ferry station -- and waiting perhaps three years to actually snare one. 
 But in his suddenly expanded free time, Mr. Blake, a 47-year-old computer systems designer, has been struck by a bittersweet anomaly. He has noticed that despite the long waiting lists for parking, empty spots are popping up all over the lot because of jobless people like him. He wonders why something can't be done to dole out those vacant spaces to those who need them. 
 ''Right now,'' he said, ''it seems like a three-year waiting list and a bunch of empty spaces doesn't make sense.'' 
 If owning a car in New York City demands the daily contortions of alternate-side-of-the-street parking, then the bane of suburban car ownership is securing a spot at the train station. But the recession, with all the commuters who are getting laid off, has introduced a flicker of hope, and a good deal of confusion, into this struggle.
 From Ronkonkoma on Long Island to Darien, Conn., riders are doing double takes at the vacancies in the station lot, and the empty spots, in turn, have sparked efforts to free them up for parkers without permits. In Connecticut, there is even a push to let permit holders ''rent'' their permits. 
 Consider Westchester County. Roughly 100 of the 573 spaces at the parking lot in Dobbs Ferry were free at 3 p.m. on a recent Tuesday. Over in Hartsdale, Stephanie Kavourias, executive director of the public parking authority, figures that about 90 of the station's 900 permit spaces are empty on an average day now. And Robert Meehan, the supervisor of the town of Mount Pleasant, which includes Valhalla (191 spaces) and Hawthorne (355), has also seen growth in vacancies. 
 ''I went down to Valhalla on a recent Monday and there were 30 spaces empty,'' Mr. Meehan said. ''Before the recession it would always be full.''
 But these empty spaces may be chimerical. It's ''look but don't touch'' for people like Mr. Blake because many permit holders, even if they have lost their jobs and no longer commute regularly, still hold tightly onto their permits. Jeanette DeLeo, an assistant in the city clerk's office in Rye, said there has been no whittling of the waiting list in her town, and the reason is not hard to fathom.
 ''With a waiting list of 8 to 10 years, people will not give up their permits,'' Ms. DeLeo said.
 Most train stations also have metered daily spaces, but drivers who use them must often carry canvas bags of quarters and recruit someone to feed the meter if they work late. And there is always the danger that a commuter will arrive at the station to find the metered lot full (though the recession has eased this problem somewhat). 
 All these factors mean that the permit-only lots are crucial for suburban parkers, none more so than those who live in places like Ardsley, which has no train station of its own. Its 4,800 residents must rely on the kindness of strangers -- the nearby villages -- for parking spaces. Ardsley residents have been allotted 43 spots at the Dobbs Ferry station and 20 in Hartsdale. The rest of the Ardsley commuting population must jury-rig a daily path to the station -- a spouse or friend drives them, they take a bus or a cab, they illicitly park on a nearby street and risk a ticket. Many simply drive into the city, greenhouse gases be damned. 
 Charles Harris, a 71-year-old insurance agent, walks a quarter-mile from his Ardsley home to a bus that takes 10 minutes to get him to the station, and then waits another 20 minutes for the 7:58 to Grand Central Terminal. 
 Door to door, Mr. Harris said, ''it takes me an hour and a half to get 21 miles.'' 
 Jay Leon, the mayor of Ardsley, regularly pleads for more parking spots on behalf of Mr. Harris and his other constituents -- and those requests may start to sound a bit more reasonable now that empty spaces are appearing in the Dobbs Ferry lot. 
 ''It's kind of a joke between me and the mayor of Dobbs Ferry,'' Mr. Leon said. ''Every six months I start lobbying him for parking spaces. He laughs about it but says not this time, maybe next time.'' 
 Scott Seskin, mayor of Dobbs Ferry, admitted that he, too, has noticed the increase in vacant parking spaces and is having the police do a count. If there is a surplus of spaces, he said, he will ask the village board of trustees to make those spots available to Ardsley residents.
 Jim Cameron, chairman of the state-created Connecticut Rail Commuter Council, wants to free up the growing number of vacant commuter parking spots in his state. To do so, he is pressing public officials to allow permit holders who seldom commute to ''sublet'' their permits. Right now, such transfers are generally forbidden, but Mr. Cameron said that rule makes no sense. 
 ''If I've been laid off and am not going into the city every day and I know there are people who have been on a waiting list for four or five years, why don't I have the right to put a note at the station and say there's a parking permit for rent?'' asked Mr. Cameron. He lives in Darien, Conn., where the waiting list is more than four years.
 Layoffs seem the most probable reason for the empty parking spots, but Ms. Kavourias, the parking official in Hartsdale, detects another recession-related cause. Some people who are only sporadic commuters, she said, are forsaking a permit and feeding the daily parking meters instead. With the meters costing $7.50 for a 15-hour day, and a Hartsdale parking permit costing $725 a year, for some irregular commuters the meters may make more sense. ''Everybody's starting to do the math now with the economics being what they are,'' Ms. Kavourias said. 
 Still, in the parking-scarce suburbs, getting a parking tag after years of waiting has traditionally prompted the same elation an immigrant feels on getting a green card. And the efforts involved can be similarly heroic. Until 2007, for example, the affluent, sailboat-lined village of Rowayton, Conn., required parking permit applicants to line up on Father's Day weekend. Even the town's millionaire chief executives would start queuing after midnight, and spend the night snoozing in folding chairs or sleeping bags until the stickers went on sale at 8 a.m.
 Small wonder that suburbanites often find it striking to see these empty parking spots. Consider Salvatore Arena, a Long Island Rail Road spokesman, who said that parking at his station in Ronkonkoma ''has eased significantly since the downturn.''
 ''Plenty of space these days in a huge lot that used to be real tight,'' mused Mr. Arena in an e-mail message. ''I've often thought there must be a sad story behind every missing car.''
 However odd the empty spaces look to suburban eyes, many local officials expect that eventually there will once again be no room at the lot. That is why the Westchester town of Mount Pleasant, despite its current empty spots, is proceeding with its plan to add room for 104 more cars in its parking areas. 
 ''While the recession creates some issues of people not going to work,'' said Mr. Meehan, the Mount Pleasant supervisor, ''long term the demand for spaces has steadily grown.'' 
 When demand for parking returns to pre-recession levels, that would certainly not be good for Ardsley. Just ask Natalie Werner, a Westchester real estate broker.
 ''I'm often told by people that they don't want to live in Ardsley,'' Ms. Werner said, and they say that despite the high-performing schools and other attractions of the village. And what reason do they give for this decision? ''Because you can't commute,'' she answered. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: EMPTY BUT SPOKEN FOR: Parking spots at train stations, like these in Dobbs Ferry, N.Y., have proliferated.(MB1)
 PRECIOUS SPOTS: Waits can be long for a permit to park near the train station in Dobbs Ferry, but spaces can go unused when commuters lose their jobs.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(MB8) CHART: City Bound: While many people take trains into Manhattan, many also drive. Here is a portrait of the private cars that enter the central business district -- the area from 59th Street to the Battery -- on weekdays.(Source: Schaller Consulting, 2006 and 2007 reports for Transportation Alternatives)(MB8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBURBS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (77%); TRAINS (77%); EXECUTIVES (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2009



749 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; COLLECTING; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1216 words

HEADLINE: Italian Flair at Blue-Collar Prices

BYLINE: By ROB SASS

 BODY:
IF ever there were a threat to the reputation of '60s British sports cars as the most heartbreaking form of transportation sold in America, it probably would have come from Fiat.
 Like classic Austin-Healeys, MGs and Triumphs of the bell-bottom era, Fiats could be lovely to look at and delightful on the road. In particular, they were loads of fun when driven with urgency -- ideally with the engine screaming at maximum revs and with minimal regard to the tires' limits of adhesion.
 But they also carried the stigma of being unable to return home from dinner and a movie without an alternator dying, a fuel pump expiring or a head gasket blowing. Worse yet, many of the cars that Fiat sold in the United States before pulling up stakes in 1983 tended to age badly, suffering from poor paint, metastatic rust and fragile trim.
 The reputation for shoddy quality may be the product of a few historical factors: pressing demand in postwar Italy for low-cost cars; a desperate need to export as the country rebuilt; and trade restrictions that kept high-quality Japanese cars out of the home market. 
 Bill Baker was the public relations director for Fiat North America in 1978-83, and he was a busy man. During his tenure, the federal government issued a highly unusual recall for the Fiat 850 -- going back 10 years -- for rust problems. Mr. Baker also had to cope with dealers who had never received service manuals in English for some models. 
 The 1979 introduction of what was supposed to be a world-beating economy hatchback, the Strada, instead turned out to be a swan song: that car was the last Fiat-branded product in the United States. Among the Strada's myriad faults, Mr. Baker recalls, was an engine compartment that got so hot the electric cooling fan, controlled by a thermostat, would never shut off. It simply stayed on until it drained the battery. Even impressive gas mileage -- the E.P.A. highway rating was 38 m.p.g. -- would not sustain the troublesome Strada.
 Jonathan Stein, an automotive historian who comes from a family of Fiat owners, recalls a particular 1981 Fiat 131 sedan bought after sitting on a dealer's lot for a year. ''The car already had body rust when we bought it,'' he said. ''Every six months, we had to return it to the dealer to have the rust repaired.'' 
 My mother, Joyce Sass, recalls her 1981 Spider 2000, painted a pretty shade of light blue, as the ''bring it on by'' car. It earned the name because that was the phrase consistently offered by the service manager of Archway Imports in St. Louis, in response to her latest description of the car's malfunctions. 
 Some Fiat owners did get excellent service from their cars. Rich Williams of Santa Barbara, Calif., owned a 1976 124 Spider from 1986 until 2001. ''I bought it not because I had any interest in Fiats per se, but simply because I was a poor grad student,'' he said. ''It was cheap transportation, and the top went down.'' 
 Mr. Williams's care for his 124 was not exactly that of a doting owner. ''I rarely changed the oil, and I bought the cheapest parts for it possible,'' he said. ''Still, I got about 125,000 miles out of it. It only broke down on me once. 
 ''I did go through numerous convertible tops, though. When they wore out, I just drove to the manufacturer in L.A., bought a top and replaced it myself.'' 
 Mr. Baker said he thought that at the time Fiat left the United States in 1983, the company's management simply didn't understand how the American market was evolving. ''We kept telling them that quality was becoming the most important attribute to American buyers, and their response was, 'How good is good enough?''' he said. 
 Still, Fiats were often a darling of the enthusiast press. In 1967, Road & Track called the Fiat 850 coupe ''one of the handsomest, best-balanced designs ever seen on a small car.'' And of the 1100R sedan tested the same year, it said, ''Despite the car's first purpose as economy transportation, it can deliver more sheer fun than almost any small sedan on the market.''
 Little has changed in this regard. John Montgomery, president of Fiat Lancia Unlimited, a club based in Coldwater, Mich., said vintage Fiat sports cars had a junior-exotic appeal, giving enthusiasts of average means a taste of the Ferrari experience. 
 In addition to common ownership, Fiat and Ferrari have often shared the services of styling houses like Pininfarina and Bertone, Mr. Montgomery points out. Little surprise, then, that the Fiat 124 Spider bears more than a passing resemblance to the Ferrari 275 GTS, and the wedge profile of the Fiat X 1/9 can be seen in the Ferrari 308 GT/4.
 It is curious, then, that the values of vintage Fiats have remained relatively low while prices of vintage Ferraris and even comparable British sports cars from the same era have increased. Both the 124 Spider and X 1/9 were more technologically advanced than their MG and Triumph competitors. The X 1/9 was one of the first inexpensive midengine sports cars, and the 124 Spider had an alloy twin-cam engine, four-wheel disc brakes, a 5-speed transmission and one of the best convertible tops ever. 
 At the same time, the British made do with 4-speeds, rear drum brakes, cast-iron pushrod engines and leaky convertible tops that seemed to have been engineered by the Marquis de Sade. 
 Mr. Montgomery, the club president, said that in marketing and service support the British had Fiat beat. ''There were simply more MG and Triumph dealers out there, they were better stocked with parts and technicians and they spent more on advertising,'' he said, noting that the gap seems to carry over today. ''It's much easier to find someone willing to work on an old MG or Triumph than it is to find an Italian-car mechanic.'' 
 Andy Reid, senior editor of Classic Motorsports magazine, agrees. ''Usability factors heavily into collector-car values, and the perception is that Italian cars are just more difficult to live with than British cars,'' he said. ''Fiats are more complex and far more difficult for the average guy to work on.'' 
 Additionally, Mr. Reid said, there are fewer sources for parts for Fiats than for British cars, and the parts tend to be a bit more expensive. 
 Values for collectible Fiat sports cars have remained steady for some time, Mr. Reid said, with a nice but not perfect 124 or Spider 2000 available in the $5,000 to $8,000 range and an X 1/9 (produced from 1973-86) at $3,000 to $7,000. A 1200, prized by collectors for its cuteness, recently sold at auction for almost $40,000.
 ''Rare models like the Fiat Dino Spider, with a Ferrari-engineered V-6, can sell for up to $60,000,'' he said.
 Recent surveys have shown that Americans expect Fiat quality and reliability to be of little concern, though J. D. Power & Associates studies of customer satisfaction in Europe rank the brand near the bottom of all carmakers.
 Even so, many Americans think of Fiat as a global giant with brands like Ferrari, Maserati and Alfa Romeo, as well as control of the new Chrysler Group. They may be familiar with the latest version of the cute 500 minicar, which is likely to be sold eventually through Chrysler dealers. And quite likely, Fiat enthusiasts are hoping that the company's third time in the United States market will be the charm. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: '73 850 Sport Spider, top
1969-72 Dino, above.
1959 1200 Roadster
1981 Spider 2000
1981 Strada
1980 X 1/9
 500 [PHOTOGRAPHS FROM THE BROCHURE COLLECTION OF STEVE HAYES (850, 1200, 2000, STRADA, X 1/9)] 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); SPORTS CARS (78%); SEDANS (77%); HISTORY (72%); IMPORT TRADE (72%)

COMPANY: FIAT SPA (92%)

TICKER: FSOR (PAR) (92%); F (BIT) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2009



750 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1548 words

HEADLINE: 40 Years Later, Still Second-Class Americans

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH

 BODY:
LIKE all students caught up in the civil rights and antiwar movements of the 1960s, I was riveted by the violent confrontations between the police and protestors in Selma, 1965, and Chicago, 1968. But I never heard about the several days of riots that rocked Greenwich Village after the police raided a gay bar called the Stonewall Inn in the wee hours of June 28, 1969 -- 40 years ago today.
 Then again, I didn't know a single person, student or teacher, male or female, in my entire Ivy League university who was openly identified as gay. And though my friends and I were obsessed with every iteration of the era's political tumult, we somehow missed the Stonewall story. Not hard to do, really. The Times -- which would not even permit the use of the word gay until 1987 -- covered the riots in tiny, bowdlerized articles, one of them but three paragraphs long, buried successively on pages 33, 22 and 19. 
 But if we had read them, would we have cared? It was typical of my generation, like others before and after, that the issue of gay civil rights wasn't on our radar screen. Not least because gay people, fearful of harassment, violence and arrest, were often forced into the shadows. As David Carter writes in his book ''Stonewall,'' at the end of the 1960s homosexual sex was still illegal in every state but Illinois. It was a crime punishable by castration in seven states. No laws -- federal, state or local -- protected gay people from being denied jobs or housing. If a homosexual character appeared in a movie, his life ended with either murder or suicide. 
 The younger gay men -- and scattered women -- who acted up at the Stonewall on those early summer nights in 1969 had little in common with their contemporaries in the front-page political movements of the time. They often lived on the streets, having been thrown out of their blue-collar homes by their families before they finished high school. They migrated to the Village because they'd heard it was one American neighborhood where it was safe to be who they were. 
 Stonewall ''wasn't a 1960s student riot,'' wrote one of them, Thomas Lanigan-Schmidt, in a poignant handwritten flier on display at the New York Public Library in the exhibition ''1969: The Year of Gay Liberation.'' They had ''no nice dorms for sleeping,'' ''no school cafeteria for certain food'' and ''no affluent parents'' to send checks. They had no powerful allies of any kind, no rights, no future. But they were brave. They risked their necks to prove, as Lanigan-Schmidt put it, that ''the mystery of history'' could happen ''in the least likely of places.''
 After the gay liberation movement was born at Stonewall, this strand of history advanced haltingly until the 1980s. It took AIDS and the new wave of gay activism it engendered to fully awaken many, including me, to the gay people all around them. But that tardy and still embryonic national awareness did not save the lives of those whose abridged rights made them even more vulnerable during a rampaging plague.
 On Monday, President Obama will commemorate Stonewall with an East Room reception for gay leaders. Some of the invitees have been fiercely critical of what they see as his failure, thus far, to redeem his promise to be a ''fierce advocate'' for their still unfulfilled cause. The rancor increased this month, after the Department of Justice filed a brief defending the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA), the most ignominious civil rights betrayal under the last Democratic president, Bill Clinton. 
 The Obama White House has said that the Justice Department action was merely a bureaucratic speed bump on the way to repealing DOMA -- which hardly mitigates the brief's denigration of same-sex marriage, now legal in six states after many hard-fought battles. The White House has also asserted that its Stonewall ceremony was ''long planned'' -- even though it sure looks like damage control. News of the event trickled out publicly only last Monday, after dozens of aggrieved, heavy-hitting gay donors dropped out of a Democratic National Committee fund-raiser with a top ticket of $30,400.
 In conversations with gay activists on both coasts last week, I heard several theories as to why Obama has seemed alternately clumsy and foot-dragging in honoring his campaign commitments to dismantle DOMA and Don't Ask Don't Tell. The most charitable take had it that he was following a deliberate strategy, given his habit of pursuing his goals through long-term game plans. After all, he's only five months into his term and must first juggle two wars, the cratered economy, health care and Iran. Some speculated that the president is fearful of crossing preachers, especially black preachers, who are adamantly opposed to same-sex marriage. Still others said that the president was tone-deaf on the issue because his inner White House circle lacks any known gay people.
 But the most prevalent theory is that Obama, surrounded by Clinton White House alumni with painful memories, doesn't want to risk gay issues upending his presidency, as they did his predecessor's in 1993. After having promised to lift the ban on gays in the military, Clinton beat a hasty retreat into Don't Ask once Congress and the Pentagon rebelled. This early pratfall became a lasting symbol of his chaotic management style -- and a precursor to another fiasco, Hillarycare, that Obama is also working hard not to emulate.
 But 2009 is not then, and if the current administration really is worried that it could repeat Clinton's history on Don't Ask, that's ludicrous. Clinton failed less because of the policy's substance than his fumbling of the politics. Even in 1992 a majority of the country (57 percent) supported an end to the military ban on gays. But Clinton blundered into the issue with no strategy at all and little or no advance consultation with the Joint Chiefs and Congress. That's never been Obama's way.
 The cultural climate is far different today, besides. Now, roughly 75 percent of Americans support an end to Don't Ask, and gay issues are no longer a third rail in American politics. Gay civil rights history is moving faster in the country, including on the once-theoretical front of same-sex marriage, than it is in Washington. If the country needs any Defense of Marriage Act at this point, it would be to defend heterosexual marriage from the right-wing ''family values'' trinity of Sanford, Ensign and Vitter.
 But full gay citizenship is far from complete. ''There's a perception in Washington that you can throw little bits of partial equality to gay people and that gay people will be satisfied with that,'' said Dustin Lance Black, the screenwriter who won an Oscar for ''Milk,'' last year's movie about Harvey Milk, the pioneering gay civil rights politician of the 1970s. Such ''crumbs,'' Black added, cannot substitute for ''full and equal rights in all matters of civil law in all 50 states.''
 As anger at White House missteps boiled over this month, the president abruptly staged a ceremony to offer some crumbs. The pretext was the signing of an executive memorandum bestowing benefits to the domestic partners of federal employees. But some of those benefits were already in force, and the most important of them all, health care, was not included because it is forbidden by DOMA. 
 One gay leader invited to the Oval Office that day was Jennifer Chrisler of the Family Equality Council, an advocacy organization for gay families based in Massachusetts. She showed a photo of her 7-year-old twin sons, Tom and Tim, to Obama. The president cooed. ''I told him they're following in Sasha's footsteps, entering the second grade,'' she recounted to me last week. ''It was a very human exchange between two parents.''
 Chrisler seized the moment to appeal to the president on behalf of her boys. ''The worst thing you can experience as parents is to feel your children are discriminated against,'' she told him. ''Imagine if you have to explain every day who your parents are and that they're as real as every family is.'' Chrisler said that she and her children ''want a president who will make that go away,'' adding, ''I believe in his heart he wants that to happen, his political mistakes notwithstanding.''
 No president possesses that magic wand, but Obama's inaction on gay civil rights is striking. So is his utterly uncharacteristic inarticulateness. The Justice Department brief defending DOMA has spoken louder for this president than any of his own words on the subject. Chrisler noted that he has given major speeches on race, on abortion and to the Muslim world. ''People are waiting for that passionate speech from him on equal rights,'' she said, ''and the time is now.''
 Action would be even better. It's a press cliche that ''gay supporters'' are disappointed with Obama, but we should all be. Gay Americans aren't just another political special interest group. They are Americans who are actively discriminated against by federal laws. If the president is to properly honor the memory of Stonewall, he should get up to speed on what happened there 40 years ago, when courageous kids who had nothing, not even a public acknowledgment of their existence, stood up to make history happen in the least likely of places.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BARRY BLITT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); RIOTS (89%); STUDENT ACTIVISM (78%); STUDENT HOUSING (78%); LGBT RIGHTS (78%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); FAMILY (68%); LIBRARIES (65%); SUICIDE (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2009



751 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; PRACTICAL TRAVELER; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 894 words

HEADLINE: The Soaring Cost of Car Rentals

BYLINE: By MICHELLE HIGGINS

 BODY:
WHILE the global recession has sent prices plummeting on airfares, hotels and cruises, it is having the opposite effect on rental cars. 
 In May, the average rate for a weekly airport rental of a compact car booked seven days in advance was $345.99, up a whopping 73 percent compared with $199.65 for the same month last year, according to the Abrams Consulting Group, based in Purchase, N.Y., which tracks rental rates. 
 In mid-June, weekly airport rental rates for a compact car averaged $347.44, compared with $210.38 a year ago -- a 65 percent jump. ''There's a lot of sticker shock,'' said Neil Abrams, president of the consulting group. ''People don't understand. The economy is caving around them,'' he said, adding, ''so how is it possible that rates are as high as they are for car rentals?'' 
 The reason is basic supply and demand. Although demand for car rentals is down -- by roughly 15 percent, according to Mr. Abrams -- rental agencies have cut their fleets by even more, essentially creating their own shortage and jacking up prices. 
 To trim fleets, companies have been selling cars to the used car market and holding off on buying new ones. That doesn't necessarily mean renters are getting clunkers, but it's not unusual anymore to see a car with 30,000 miles on it. The average age of a rental car is now about 11 months, compared with about nine-and-a-half months a year ago, Mr. Abrams said. 
 All of this has changed the booking game for consumers. With many hotel rooms and airline seats empty, travelers have become accustomed to booking trips at the last minute. But with car rentals, that strategy won't work. A procrastinator risks paying an exorbitant rate for the last car on the lot, assuming there is a car left. Many rental agencies in Manhattan, for example, have been sold out for the busy Fourth of July weekend for weeks. 
 Besides starting your search early, there are several ways to find a cheaper car. Off-airport locations are typically cheaper than airport locations, which tend to tack on fees that can raise the final price by 30 percent or more. According to an Expedia search in mid-June, an economy car from Enterprise Rent-a-Car from Seattle-Tacoma airport was $110.31 a day, compared with $42.90 for a similar car from the same company in downtown Seattle. 
 Travelers willing to go farther can save even more. For a 38-day road trip from Portland to Michigan, Ed Immel is saving about $800 by not renting from the airport or even downtown Portland. Instead, he is going to an Enterprise branch in the bedroom community of Beaverton, Ore., about 25 miles outside of Portland. ''My advice,'' said Mr. Immel, a retired rail planner from Portland, ''is to take the airport train downtown and pick up the rental car there or go further.'' 
 Deals can also be found by upgrading. With demand for fuel-efficient cars particularly high, travelers can sometimes find a better deal by booking larger, roomier vehicles. A recent Expedia search, for example, found a full-size van for $90.42 a day at the Budget Rent a Car in Long Beach, Calif., compared with $97.86 for a standard car. While the added fuel costs (not to mention larger carbon footprint) might erase the savings, the extra space and comfort might prevent World War III between siblings in the back seat. 
 Also, look beyond national chains like Avis or Hertz, to the hundreds of independent car rental agencies. Because of lower operating costs and smaller overhead, mom-and-pop agencies, which can be found at sites like CarRentals.com and CarRentalExpress.com, typically offer rates between 15 and 30 percents less than national agencies. 
 Willing to gamble? Consider Web sites like Priceline.com and Hotwire.com, which offer deep discounts to travelers willing to be locked into a preset price before finding out the rental car company. 
 Another option: virtual coupons. Sites like FatWallet.com and CouponWinner.com list discount codes for car rentals, or type in the name of a car rental company and ''coupon code'' into Google to see what turns up. Good deals also show up on airline Web sites under mileage partner offers. For example, Delta is offering up to 20 percent off with the discount code CDP 165385, and double miles on Hertz rentals in the United States (including Puerto Rico) and Canada. The code brought the weekly rental of a Toyota Prius from Newark Airport in mid-July down to $503.90 from $685.05 -- a 26 percent saving.
 If you don't have the time to seek out such discounts, Steve Ellis can do it for you. After his wife pointed out his uncanny knack for finding rental deals, Mr. Ellis, who is a business adviser and frequent traveler, created RentalCarMagic.com to allow customers to pay for his deal-sniffing services. The site, which charges $14.95 to $49.95, sends back a quote in a day or two. 
 Chris McGinnis, editor of The Ticket, a subscription newsletter for frequent travelers, recently tried RentalCarMagic.com for a trip to Hawaii. After paying a $30 fee, he said, the service saved him $54 on a convertible from Alamo Rent a Car. Though he found the process slightly cumbersome -- he still had to go to the rental company's Web site to book the deal using the discount code provided by Rental Car Magic -- he noted in his newsletter that in the end, ''it saved us more than we were able to save ourselves.'' 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JULIA KUO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); TRAVEL TICKETS (89%); AIR FARES (78%); AIRLINES (78%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (78%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TACOMA, WA, USA (71%) WASHINGTON, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2009



752 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1293 words

HEADLINE: Liked but Not Well Liked

BYLINE: By JEREMY McCARTER. 
Jeremy McCarter writes for Newsweek and is the editor of a collection of work by Henry Fairlie, ''Bite the Hand That Feeds You: Essays and Provocations,'' which has just been published.

 BODY:
ARTHUR MILLER
 1915-1962
 By Christopher Bigsby
 Illustrated. 739 pp. Harvard University Press. $35
 Christopher Bigsby has written a large book about a large man. Arthur Miller stood 6-foot-2 and was, for a time, the husband of one of the world's biggest stars, Marilyn Monroe. He generated an enormous body of work: more than two dozen plays -- including ''Death of a Salesman,'' one of the towering feats of American drama -- as well as a novel, an autobiography, screenplays and so many signatures on so many petitions that even he lost count. Having landed an early job with the W.P.A.'s Federal Theater Project, he lived long enough to rail against George W. Bush's war in Iraq. Bigsby lavishes 700 pages on Miller's exploits, and when the book ends, his subject still has four decades to go. 
 America has produced other great playwrights, of course, and Monroe never exactly lacked for well-known beaus. But Miller still casts a singularly long shadow on our national literature. Call it his moral stature. Until his death in 2005, he struck many as a saint of the left. Here was the intellectual who wrote for the workingman, the celebrity who reacted to his breakthrough Broadway success by taking a minimum-wage position in a box factory, the patriot who not only refused to name names before the House Un-American Activities Committee but rejected what would have been an even easier way out: the chairman's offer to let him go in return for a photograph with Marilyn Monroe. 
 In Miller's work, public and private concerns are linked in a web of moral ties and mutual responsibilities. The same goes for this book. In ''Arthur Miller,'' Bigsby, a British scholar and novelist, situates his subject in the political and social battles of his times. ''This is the story of a writer, but it is also the story of America,'' he says at the beginning. Well, not quite. Properly described, it's the story of a writer's early work and greatest triumphs, against the backdrop of some crises between his birth in 1915 and his third marriage in the early 1960s. Thanks to Bigsby's research, particularly into previously unseen material, his account of Miller trying to hang on to his soul in midcentury America shows that he was large not least in his contradictions. 
 From the start, Miller worked from the premise that playwrights must embrace the world, but the world didn't return his affection. The son and grandson of Eastern European immigrants, he watched his family lose its wealth in the Great Depression. The crash wasn't merely a financial collapse, he felt, but ''a moral catastrophe, a violent revelation of the hypocrisies behind the facade of American society.'' Marxism would supply this unhappy young Brooklynite with a way to make sense of the wreckage, and theater gave him a tool for cleaning it up. Inspired by Clifford Odets, he began writing plays that frankly attempted to change the world. As he put it, ''There was the audience, here were the actors, and you could talk directly to the audience, and radicalize everybody.'' 
 If you've seen ''All My Sons,'' about a father who sells faulty aircraft parts that kill Army pilots, or ''Death of a Salesman,'' in which Willy Loman falls into the abyss between American capitalism's promise and its cruel reality, you don't need a British academic to tell you that Miller's plays have a polemical streak. What the book makes newly clear, though, is how much of Miller's work reflects his own personal struggles. With almost comical frequency -- more than a dozen times -- Bigsby traces a link from a crisis in Miller's life to a later literary treatment. Some of these examples are well known, as when he dramatized his problems with Monroe in his play ''After the Fall.'' Others are obscure, like the unpublished stories, memoirs and poems in which the intensely private Miller tried to make sense of his marital troubles, or recounted his early exposure to virulent Southern racism.
 Bigsby gained access to this fresh material after spending many years writing about the playwright and serving as the director of the Arthur Miller Center at the University of East Anglia. The benefit of this long seasoning isn't just that he knows how to interpret ''Schleifer, Albert: 49,'' a peculiar early story, but that he knew Miller well enough to ask him about it. This ''stream-of-consciousness threnody'' about a worn-out salesman, Miller told him, was inspired by reading Gertrude Stein -- the kind of link you wouldn't pick out unless the author told you.
 Yet valuable as Bigsby's access and insights are, his conception of the book proves wanting. It affords immense space to Miller's experience of the 1950s, both his marriage to Monroe and the way he was pursued by conservatives for his pro-Soviet stands. (Though never a member of the Communist Party, he considered himself a Marxist until 1950, Bigsby reports.) But about the last 40 years of his life, the book says very little. Bigsby explains the choice this way: ''This book primarily concerns itself with the first half of his life for that was when he was being shaped, when he began his conversations with America, when, no matter his later doubts, he did, indeed, change the world and continues to do so.'' 
 It's certainly true Miller had nothing like the sway on the culture after 1960 that he did before it. Though he would win acclaim as the president of International PEN, the quality of his plays dropped off, so much so that by 1984, ''The Oxford Companion to American Theatre'' was referring to him in the past tense. This would make uncomfortable writing for someone favorably disposed to Miller, as Bigsby plainly is. But it is also the part of his life that is most in need of study. Both Miller's memoir, ''Timebends,'' and Martin Gottfried's 2003 biography draw to a rapid close. We still don't have the full picture of Miller's outsize life. 
 There's one particularly glaring lacuna in Bigsby's account. In 1967, Inge Morath, Miller's third wife, gave birth to Daniel, a baby with Down syndrome. Bigsby dispatches the subject in one long, awkward sentence, noting that ''on the advice of his doctor,'' Miller decided that the boy ''could be better served by being placed with others such as himself in a specialist institution rather than raised in the family home.'' What he doesn't mention is that Miller didn't refer to the boy in his memoir, or acknowledge him in public or, according to a long article in Vanity Fair two years ago, visit with any frequency the nightmarish facility where Daniel had been placed. 
 This is a messy, painful subject, and not all of the information reflects badly on Miller -- he left Daniel a quarter of his estate, according to Vanity Fair. But in light of what we know, it's impossible to understand either the life or the work of Arthur Miller, that bard of family duties and sensitive chronicler of fathers and sons, without grappling with the way he treated his own child. Gottfried, who had much less access to Miller than Bigsby did, at least gave the subject a full page.
 The Miller who looms in their biographies is not an easy man to like. There's something cold and strangely impassive about him, for all that he wrote and achieved in his long life. And yet -- isn't there something admirable about his very unlikability? One virtue of a biography that went all the way to Miller's death would be to show us how a man with his tragic sensibility navigated the ultra-ironic 21st century. I can imagine him clinging obstinately to his craft, and reiterating to people in our celebrity-crazy age what he wrote after the State Department withdrew his passport: he wanted ''to be left in peace to finish my new play, which, I may add, they will not like either.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Marilyn Monroe and Arthur Miller a few hours before their wedding in June 1956. (PHOTOGRAPH FROM ASSSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); WRITERS (89%); MARRIAGE (77%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (73%); IRAQ WAR (73%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (70%); PETITIONS (70%); MINIMUM WAGE (69%); GRANDCHILDREN (62%); GREAT DEPRESSION (60%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (60%)

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (76%)

TITLE: Arthur Miller: 1915-1962 (Book); Arthur Miller: 1915-1962 (Book)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2009



753 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; FIELD NOTES; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: Marriages at Life's Margins

BYLINE: By FRANCESCA SEGRE

 BODY:
SAFE lodging and hot meals are among the benefits of checking into the Coalition of Service and Charity homeless shelter in Hollywood, Fla. And more recently, weddings can be added to the list. 
 Five couples have been married over the last year and a half with the help of the shelter and its founder, Sean Cononie. Three of the couples met there. 
 ''I've done so many funerals, 50 or 60 in the past 12 years, it's about time we did something happy,'' Mr. Cononie said. ''Homeless people should be entitled to the same dignities that people with money can afford.'' 
 Robert Tobin, who runs Sacramento Cottage Housing, a transitional housing community in California, says in his near decade on the job, he's heard of nearly 100 weddings among the homeless population (including the couple featured in Vows this week, Jennifer Keen and Paul Sousa). 
 ''They often feel unmoored and disconnected from society,'' Mr. Tobin said. ''Weddings, graduations and other rituals can tie them to the greater community and give them a sense of belonging and status.''
 Daletha Davis, 20, said she had dreamed of such a ritual since her childhood. But the vision of romance and a traditional wedding seemed far-fetched. ''I was in and out of foster care and I never had anyone to depend on,'' she said. ''It's hard for me to trust anybody.''
 At 18, she was turned out from her foster family, and in September 2008, she wound up at the Coalition of Service and Charity, looking for a place to spend the night. Not only did she find a bed, but she also met her husband-to-be, Nicholas Davis. 
 Mr. Davis, 37, who had lost his job as a cook, had been living at the shelter for almost two years. ''I was lonely,'' he said. ''I'm not going to lie to you.'' 
 Soon, they were sharing their struggles and secrets. On May 23, they married at the Hollywood ArtsPark, a few blocks from the shelter where they share a room. 
 Michael Stoops, director of the National Coalition for the Homeless, who attended a wedding at the Hollywood, Fla., shelter in April, says weddings among the homeless remain unusual. But, he said, ''It's likely to increase as homelessness increases in this country due to the economy.'' 
 The latest research from the Department of Housing and Urban Development shows that individuals (versus families) make up roughly 70 percent of America's homeless population.
 Married life can prove practical for those individuals. Benefits from Social Security vary from case to case, as it does with programs for the poor like food stamps. Mrs. Davis, who wants to go to school for nursing and save for a home of their own, said with marriage, ''the goals seem closer than they were when I was by myself.''
 ''I have someone there to help me out,'' she said, ''and I can help him with getting out of here and getting our lives together.''
 Mr. Cononie said that one of the couples who married last year at the shelter now lives in an apartment of their own, which helps others realize ''there's ability to have a normal life outside of shelter.'' 
 Mr. Tobin pointed out that, ''for all the reasons people normally get married, it's more heightened among the homeless: stability, safety, security, companionship, financial and spiritual.'' 
 For example, when tackling substance abuse, couples can reinforce their sobriety; two incomes open more possibilities than one; when fighting for child custody, a married homeless couple may appear more stable to social workers than a single parent. ''The desire and need for companionship is much more clear when you are living day to day than for people who are less vulnerable and exposed,'' Mr. Tobin said.
 It's difficult to estimate the longevity of homeless marriages compared with others, but Mr. Stoops said: ''Anyone who can survive together while they're homeless, they're tough characters. They put up with a lot from society and community.'' 
 The Davises in Florida saved up about $500 for their wedding from their jobs working security and housekeeping at the shelter. The charity and other residents donated about $1,400 more, including gold and diamond wedding bands. Mr. Cononie posted signs at the shelter and made repeated announcements inviting all 150 residents to attend the wedding. Neither couple had family members present, but about 25 people witnessed the ceremony, and another 25 joined the celebration back at the shelter with a chocolate cake topped with a miniature bride and groom.
 ''A lot of people think just 'cause you're homeless, you shouldn't get married,'' Mrs. Davis said. ''But I think it shouldn't matter where you are or your circumstance.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (90%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); HOMELESSNESS (90%); FAMILY (77%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (74%); FOSTER CARE (70%); DISMISSALS (69%); CITIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2009



754 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1124 words

HEADLINE: Taliban Losses No Sure Gain For Pakistanis

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ and PIR ZUBAIR SHAH

DATELINE: MARDAN, Pakistan 

 BODY:
For the past month and a half, the Pakistani military has claimed success in retaking the Swat Valley from the Taliban, clawing back its own territory from insurgents who only a short time ago were extending their reach toward the heartland of the country.
 Yet from a helicopter flying low over the valley last week, the low-rise buildings of Mingora, the largest city in Swat, now deserted and under a 24-hour curfew, appeared unscathed. In the surrounding countryside, farmers had harvested wheat and red onions on their unscarred land. 
 All that is testament to the fact that the Taliban mostly melted away without a major fight, possibly to return when the military withdraws or to fight elsewhere, military analysts say. About two million people have been displaced in Swat and the surrounding area as the military has carried out its campaign.
 The reassertion of control over Swat has at least temporarily denied the militants a haven they coveted inside Pakistan proper. The offensive has also won strong support from the United States, which has urged Pakistan to engage the militants.
 But the Taliban's decision to scatter leaves the future of Swat, and Pakistan's overall stability, under continued threat, military analysts and some politicians say.
 The tentative results in Swat also do not bode well for the military's new push in the far more treacherous terrain of South Waziristan, another insurgent stronghold, where officials have vowed to take on the leader of the Pakistani Taliban, Baitullah Mehsud, who remains Pakistan's most wanted man. 
 Signs abound that the military's campaign in Swat is less than decisive. The military extended its deadline for ending the campaign. Even in the areas where progress has been made, the military controls little more than urban centers and roads, say those who have fled the areas. The military has also failed to kill or capture even one top Taliban commander.
 It was ''very disappointing,'' said Aftab Ahmed Sherpao, a senior politician from the region, that none of the commanders had been eliminated. It turned out, he said, that early reports of the capture of Ibn Amin, a particularly brutal commander from Matta, were incorrect.
 Many Taliban fighters have infiltrated the camps set up for those displaced by the fighting and are likely to return with them to Swat, said Himayatullah Mayar, the mayor of Mardan, the city where many of the refugees are staying. ''Most of the Taliban shaved their beards, and they are living here with their families,'' he said. 
 As of two weeks ago, the police had arrested 150 people in the camps suspected of being members of the Taliban, Mr. Mayar said. This figure did not include suspects arrested by the Intelligence Bureau, Pakistan's domestic intelligence outfit, and the Directorate for Inter-Services Intelligence, the country's main spy agency, he said. 
 Meanwhile, the government, led by President Asif Ali Zardari, has yet to announce a full plan for how it will provide services like courts, policing and health care that will allow the refugees to return home and the government to fully assert control.
 Those plans appear to be mired in conflict and mutual suspicion between the military and the civilian government, raising serious questions about whether the authorities can secure Swat and other areas and keep them from being taken back by the Taliban, military experts said. 
 ''I've told the president and the prime minister and the chief of the army this is the time to act. Just take basic things and implement them,'' said Gen. Nadeem Ahmad, the commander of the Special Support Group, an arm of the Pakistani military that is providing temporary buildings and some food for the displaced. ''This is not talking rocket science.''
 On a notepad, General Ahmad had drawn a chart of the four elements of what he called ''lasting peace.'' They were good government; improved delivery of services, including rebuilt schools; speedy justice (something the Taliban had provided); and social equity.
 He appeared to be skeptical that those aspects could be delivered within what he called an essential one-year time frame. He said he had warned the leaders: ''If you don't deliver, it will be trouble. You will come back and do the operation again.'' 
 Having witnessed past episodes of deal-making with the Taliban, the people of Swat say they want tangible proof that the military is serious this time and that they will be safe if they return home. 
 From the start, a rallying cry has been a demand that the army kill or capture Taliban leaders, a ruthless group of highly trained fighters, some with links to Al Qaeda. But the army has not been able to show any evidence that it killed any of the Taliban leaders.
 The daily newspaper The News said in a recent editorial that unless Maulana Fazlullah, the Taliban's main commander in Swat, and Mr. Mehsud, the country's top enemy, were captured, ''the Taliban are going to live to fight another day.'' 
 Indeed, most of the damage from the recent fighting appears confined to small agricultural hamlets outside Mingora, according to interviews with displaced people. Some said they had heard from recent arrivals to the camps that areas 500 yards off the roads remained in control of the militants. 
 The ''outlook was bleak'' in Swat because the civilian government did not have the money or the skills to rebuild, said Shuja Nawaz, the author of a history of the Pakistani military and now the director of the South Asia Center at the Atlantic Council in Washington. 
 Most of the two million displaced people are still living in tent camps and cramped quarters with relatives and even strangers, in cities as far flung as the southern port of Karachi. 
 Many displaced people were fed up with the cruelties inflicted under Taliban rule and have backed the military campaign. But as the fighting drags on in places, the mood among them grows increasingly despondent.
 Some displaced people said that they were angry at the army for indiscriminate shelling in civilian areas. Others said they were confused about why the military operation was even necessary. 
 ''We had no problem with the Taliban,'' Umar Ali, a poultry trader from Qambar in Swat, said as he sat on the veranda of a home in Swabi, a town filled with displaced people. ''We're here because of the military shelling. I'm a trader, and the thing that affects my life is the curfew.'' 
 Earlier Pakistani campaigns against the Taliban do not offer an encouraging precedent. In Bajaur, a part of the tribal areas, two main economic centers, the market towns of Loe Sam and Inayat Kalay, remain in ruins nearly eight months after the army smashed them in pursuit of the Taliban and claimed victory. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A father gave medical treatment to his son on Tuesday at a camp for people who have fled Pakistan's Swat Valley region.(A1)
Children displaced by fighting in the Swat area attended a school last week in Mardan, Pakistan, run by Ummah Welfare Trust, a religious nongovernmental organization.
 Government-supplied rice was cooked last week in Mardan. The government has not yet said how it plans to provide services that would allow the refugees to return home.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY TYLER HICKS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A12) MAP: The Pakistani military says it has made progress in Swat. Map details the Swat region of Pakistan.(A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (92%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); DISPLACED PERSONS (88%); CITIES (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); REFUGEES (74%); HELICOPTERS (72%); ESPIONAGE (71%); POLITICS (71%); CURFEW (71%); WHEAT FARMING (70%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (69%); ARRESTS (62%)

PERSON: BAITULLAH MEHSUD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PAKISTAN (96%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2009



755 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2114 words

HEADLINE: Swindled And Scammed

BYLINE: By TERI KARUSH ROGERS

 BODY:
IN New York City, the rental market can seem a lot like the black market. Renters are accustomed to feeling hustled, fleeced, and generally at the mercy of predatory forces beyond their control -- and that's when everything goes O.K.
 In this forest of stunted expectations, it can be tough to distinguish the sharp-elbowed fauna from the truly corrupt, a circumstance that has long enabled scam artists to thrive here. This year, moreover, the busy spring-summer rental season is unfolding in a time of falling rental prices, which means too-good-to-be-true deals -- the con artist's calling card -- seem more credible than they have in recent years.
 ''We deal with customers all day long who think the market is 60 percent off when it's really 15 to 20 percent, depending on the location,'' said Gary Malin, the president of Citi Habitats. ''Those are the types of people who are susceptible to scams. Whereas when you're in a very strong market and hearing that prices are escalating and vacancies are hard to find, people are more leery.'' 
 One of the most pervasive scams is a keys-for-cash gambit. Carried out online where almost all rental transactions begin these days, this ploy separates would-be renters from their money before they so much as set foot inside a dwelling. In this scheme, information and pictures from legitimate rental or sales listings are lifted from other sites and reposted under another name at an eye-poppingly low rent.
 ''It's bad enough when another real estate agent takes one of my exclusives and uses the pictures to suck in clients,'' said Sabrina Seidner, a vice president at Nest Seekers International whose listing of her own co-op apartment in Inwood was purloined last month. ''But when they use it to hurt people and prey on their need for a hot deal, it gives you a bad feeling.'' 
 In her case, someone claiming to have relocated to London advertised Ms. Seidner's one-bedroom apartment on Craigslist. At least one prospective renter was induced to fill out an application and send personal information before becoming suspicious of a request for a $200 deposit to borrow the keys. 
 ''Two people who contacted me about it had Googled the address of my apartment and found it listed for sale,'' Ms. Seidner said. 
 Web sites like Craigslist warn of fraud in very large letters, but in the desperate search for an apartment, many otherwise reasonable people overlook the caveats.
 Students and out-of-towners are more apt to fall for plots like the keys-for-money scheme, said Leonard Gordon, the director of the Federal Trade Commission's Northeast office. ''A lot of times they're in one location renting in another location, and they're more comfortable dealing on the Internet -- they do everything there,'' he said.
 But even locals get sucked in.
 Last month, a woman in her 20s who works in finance at a major investment bank responded to a Craigslist ad for a prewar one-bedroom at 470 Park Avenue. The pictures were ''beyond amazing'' for the monthly rent, $1,300, she said. 
 Through e-mail messages written in awkwardly formal English, she was informed that the owner of the apartment lived in Alaska. Dissatisfied with his broker's efforts to sell the place, he wanted to rent it out instead. But, he said, the dwelling couldn't be shown until the superintendent came back from vacation.
 Searching for the photographs one day, the renter Googled a phrase she remembered from the ad -- ''Park Avenue Jewel'' -- and discovered that the apartment was listed for sale with Wendy Sarasohn, a senior vice president at the Corcoran Group. 
 That jibed with the man's story, said the would-be renter, who asked not to be identified in order to avoid embarrassment at work.
 She walked by the building and spoke to the doorman, who didn't recognize the name of her contact yet confirmed that the super was indeed on vacation.
 ''That was probably a coincidence,'' she acknowledged in retrospect. In any event, that small detail kept her on the hook -- until she was asked to prove that she could afford the $2,600 security deposit and the first month's rent.
 ''He wanted me to wire it to a friend of mine and give him a confirmation number just so he could see that I had it,'' she said. ''I called Western Union and they said: 'Don't do it. He will make a fake I.D. under the name of your friend and pick up the money himself.' ''
 At that point she contacted Ms. Sarasohn and ended her communication with the bogus landlord.
 Plenty of others take the bait, said officials at the F.B.I. and the F.T.C. The two federal agencies monitor complaints about online fraud, searching for trends that can be referred to the appropriate local, national or international enforcement agency.
 There has been a growing number of complaints as more searches are conducted online. 
 ''Over the last couple of years, we've had a steady drumbeat of complaints from people who've been victimized and lost money, as well as from some who sniff it out in time and want to report it,'' said Paul Bresson, a spokesman for the F.B.I., which runs the Internet Crime Complaint Center (http://www.ic3.gov/default.aspx) jointly with the National White Collar Crime Center.
 While some scams are conducted entirely online, others unfurl eyeball to eyeball. 
 They range from frankly desperate and crudely executed to coolly calculated and deftly practiced.
 ''Sometimes,'' said Mr. Malin of Citi Habitats, ''you meet someone at a building and they say they're having trouble getting into the apartment that was in the listing, so they show you something else in the building and they get you all excited about the one you can't get into, and ask you for cash on the spot without even a credit check or application.''
 One of the most widespread and frequently undetected hustles involves collecting nonrefundable application fees from prospective renters.
 The grifters ''have the keys to a vacant apartment and hold an open house there, not intending to rent to anyone,'' said Bob Brooks, an agent at Century 21 NY Metro. ''It's usually a crazy deal, like a one-bedroom on Greenwich Street for $1,750 that should really be $3,100. So they get a hundred application fees because everyone who sees it, wants it. Application fees could be $50 to $250, but I've definitely heard of clients giving $500, or $1,000 or even a month's rent in cash.''
 Many would-be renters never know that they have been deceived.
 It was by a fluke that Jamie Kozma, 24, a media planner and first-time renter, discovered two years ago that he'd been duped in connection with a two-bedroom apartment on the Upper West Side, advertised for $1,600 on Craigslist.
 ''It was a pretty sizable two-bedroom,'' said Mr. Kozma, who saw the apartment with his father. ''We asked why it was so cheap; we wouldn't be surprised if it was double. The supposed agent said it was a special deal, that they get these once in a while and the owner just wanted it to go quickly.''
 Mr. Kozma filled out an application for himself and his roommate and handed it to the agent at a Starbucks the following week, along with $240 in application fees, $120 from each of them. 
 ''He said we would know in a week. I didn't really hear from him, so I called back asking for status,'' Mr. Kozma said. ''He said he would know in a few days. When the day finally came, I called him and he said sorry to tell you, they gave it to someone with a higher income.''
 Mr. Kozma accepted the man's story. Then his sister told him a friend had been duped by the same agent and had discovered that the brokeragelisted on his business card did not exist.
 ''I called him and I was like, 'Listen, I know who you are and what you've done, and I want my money back,' '' Mr. Kozma said. 
 He never received a refund, and eventually dropped the matter as not worth the trouble: ''I guess that was his tactic -- to go small.''
 Mr. Malin said Mr. Kozma's hunch was probably correct: ''Most people aren't going to complain over a small sum of money.''
 Newly minted renters like Mr. Kozma are vulnerable in other ways. Not only are their street smarts still evolving, but for reasons of economics, they frequently deal in the wild west of the rental market: sublets.
 ''I don't know if I was naive or too trusting,'' said Carlin Catra Cwik, who along with her roommate was parted from $1,400 last month by a man from whom they tried to sublet a Williamsburg apartment found on Craigslist. ''We just assumed he was nice because that's the way he was acting. I feel like I failed as a New Yorker.''
 Ms. Cwik, a 23-year-old production assistant, moved to New York from Chicago last January, living in two different Brooklyn sublets, also found through Craigslist. By the time she and a friend set out looking for a third, she thought she was adept at spotting a con.
 ''Like there was someone who sent pictures that looked like a mansion,'' Ms. Cwik explained. ''There was no way the rent was what they said.'' 
 But the Williamsburg apartment seemed on the up and up.
 They met the man who had placed the ad and he seemed all right, too. ''I just never expected someone just to lie to my face,'' Ms. Cwik said.
 The rent for the two-bedroom railroad apartment was $950 a month, and there were three months left on the lease. The women agreed to pay one and a half months' rent in advance and the rest when they moved in. The man, who said he worked as a musician and bartender, handed them the keys in the middle of May and agreed upon a May 29 move-in date. He even threw in his bed. 
 ''He was really nice at first,'' Ms. Cwik said. ''He seemed really laid back, kind of like a hipster. The last week of May we kept trying to meet up with him and give him the other checks. He was being really weird and not answering the phone.''
 He eventually told the two roommates to meet him at his building at 2 in the morning on a Thursday. 
 ''He met us at the door and wouldn't let us come in to look at the place and measure it,'' Ms. Cwik said. ''I can't describe a more nervous person, almost shaking, and sweating. He said you can't move in tomorrow anymore because my roommate isn't leaving. It has to be Sunday.''
 Unwilling to risk losing their deposit, the women swallowed their reservations and left him post-dated checks totaling $1,424 for the balance of the sublease. But they came back the next day, and upon receiving no answer to their knocks, let themselves into the apartment to look around. 
 They found an eviction notice on the coffee table. Three months of back rent were due.
 ''We called him and he said he wouldn't give us our money back because he needed it,'' Ms. Cwik said. ''Then he hung up and changed his phone number.''
 They canceled the second pair of checks they had written and contacted the real landlord, who said they could stay as long as they signed a new lease at $200 a month higher rent. But they didn't want to commit to a year's lease or have to come up with the money they had lost.
 Instead they filed a claim in small claims court, which is still pending. And after word spread about their misfortune, a friend offered up a bedroom in an apartment in Bushwick, Brooklyn, which the two women are sharing in an effort to make up for their stolen funds. 
 Recently Ms. Cwik found another sublet that starts July 1 -- on Craigslist. She said she had learned to adopt a more assertive approach.
 ''Think twice about things,'' said Ms. Cwik, who is writing a book proposal for a survival guide aimed at freshly stamped New Yorkers like herself. ''Ask the person if they would be O.K. signing a piece of paper and giving a reference or even just meeting their roommate. If that scares people, that's a sign.''
 Another young subtenant, Autumn Marie Griffin, 26, discovered she was being scammed only after she had been renting an apartment in Crown Heights, Brooklyn, for two years. Although she had felt initial misgivings about the man and woman she sublet from, she shook them off. Her wake-up call was an eviction notice.
 ''Basically, the man my roommate and I had been subletting from had been pocketing the rent for almost the whole time,'' said Ms. Griffin, a publicist. Their landlord, whose rent was actually a quarter of the $1,150 he was charging them, had forged the building manager's signature on the sublease the women had signed. 
 ''I look back and I'm like, what was I doing?'' Ms. Griffin said. 
 Fortunately, the management company sympathized with her plight and found her and her roommates other housing arrangements. Had it not, said Ms. Griffin, who vows never to sublet again, ''we could have easily been left with no place to go.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BILKED: Carlin Catra Cwik outside of a building where she thought she had sublet an apartment. She and her roommate fell for a common ploy, keys for cash. The online ad they answered had been placed by a man who was being evicted.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(RE1)
TARGETED: Someone advertised for a renter for an apartment actually owned by Sabrina Seidner, left. Another miscreant trawled for renters using a purloined for-sale ad placed by Wendy Sarasohn, below left. Autumn Marie Griffin sublet from a man who did not turn the rent over to the landlord.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES )(RE10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (76%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (64%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (50%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%); CRAIGSLIST INC (52%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2009



756 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; GENERATION B; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1149 words

HEADLINE: The Adult Store Goes Mainstream

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINERIP. 
E-mail: generationb@nytimes.com

 BODY:
MORE than four decades after the sexual revolution, the word ''vibrator'' still has the power to elicit blushes, discomfort, snickering. And yet, according to the first academic, peer-reviewed studies of vibrator use, it is nearly as common an appliance in American households as the drip coffee maker or toaster oven.
 Fifty-three percent of women and nearly half of all men report having used a vibrator, according to two new national surveys from Indiana University recently published in The Journal of Sexual Medicine.
 And what the surveys make clear is that the vibrator -- dismissed as a ''masturbatory machine'' for ''sexually dysfunctional females'' in The Journal of Popular Culture back in 1974 -- is being used by couples for shared pleasure. Eighty-one percent of women and 91 percent of men who've used one report having done so with a partner. 
 ''What this tells us is we've reached a tipping point,'' said Debby Herbenick, an author of the studies along with her Indiana University colleague Michael Reece. ''Something once regarded as exotic has become commonplace.''
 The surveys, conducted in April 2008 and paid for by Church & Dwight, which makes Trojan condoms and a line of vibrators, document vibrator use and the related sexual practices of 2,056 women and 1,047 men; 93 percent of those surveyed said they are heterosexual.
 While baby boomers, the first Americans to come of age in an era of loosened sexual strictures, were pioneers of vibrator acceptance, the data make clear that succeeding generations have surpassed them. Among boomer women, ages 45 to 60, 46.3 percent reported having used a vibrator at some point in their lives, compared to 59.5 percent of women, ages 23 to 44; and 32.7 percent of women, 18 to 22. For men, 45.2 percent, ages 45 to 60 reported having used one; 51.5 percent, ages 23 to 44; and 15.5 percent, ages 18 to 22. 
 The researchers attribute the widespread use to easier availability and a cultural shift away from the bad ol' boy, Triple-X-rated sex toy industry. Vibrators are now sold at Wal-Mart, 7-Eleven and CVS; new Internet sites for sex products feature middle-aged models and aim at mainstream couples. Several companies market sex toys to women as young as sorority sisters and as old as postmenopausal golden girls through Tupperware-style home parties.
 ''You can now buy your toothpaste, shampoo and vibrator at the local convenience store,'' Dr. Herbenick said. ''They're not hidden in a dark corner of some adult store.''
 This is the first vibrator research based on a sampling reflective of the nation's demographic mix, so there is no means of authoritatively measuring changing use over time. But earlier research gives some hints. 
 Studies by Alfred Kinsey in 1953 and by Shere Hite in 1976 concluded that vibrator use was ''not appreciable'' and ''less than 1 percent.'' A 1992 National Health and Social Life survey done at the University of Chicago indicated 2 percent of women 18 to 59 had bought a vibrator in the previous 12 months, with 17 percent finding the idea of using one ''somewhat or very appealing.''
 Making the vibrator mainstream has been a career for Patty Brisben, 53, who in 1993 started Pure Romance, a home party company that sells sex toys to women in their living rooms. Today, Ms. Brisben employs 120 workers at an office in suburban Cincinnati, along with 30,000 party hostesses around the country, who, she says, make sales pitches to 1.2 million women a year.
 The Indiana researchers also published a third survey in April, in the American Journal of Sexuality Education, which polled more than 1,000 of Pure Romance's party hostesses, who range in age from 18 to 75, about their clients. 
 Ms. Brisben estimates that about one-third of these customers are boomers, and the Indiana survey documents their sexual concerns. One-quarter of the hostesses reported they'd been asked questions at their last party about sex after menopause; one-fifth about sex after a hysterectomy; and two-thirds about lubricants.
 Pure Romance also has a specially trained group of hostesses who do 400 to 500 parties a year for cancer survivors, a largely middle-aged group, according to Ms. Brisben. ''They're in recovery, but surviving's not enough, they want to put pleasure back in their lives,'' she said.
 The Journal of Sexual Medicine survey found that 39 percent of middle-aged women had used a vibrator for masturbation; along with 53 percent of women 23 to 44; and 30 percent of women 18 to 22. The more religious a person, the less likely she was to use a vibrator, and the more educated, the more likely, according to the survey.
 Men and women who had used a vibrator in the last month scored higher on sexual pleasure scales that measured arousal, orgasm, lubrication, pain and erectile function than those who had never used one.
 Having children under 18 in the house had no impact on the rate of use, and Dr. Reece believes that's partly a result of the creativity of a new generation of suppliers. ''A lot of these are very discreet -- it's not all the Hitachi magic wand. They're so innocuous, even if children saw, they wouldn't know.''
 In 2001, Sandor Gardos, who has a doctorate in psychology from the University of Connecticut and works as a sex therapist, founded MyPleasure.com, an Internet site that sells sex toys. ''We designed it to be a comfortable site for the baby boomer in Peoria,'' he said. ''We don't have nudity, we don't sell pornography, although I have nothing against pornography. We built it to be a very safe, comfortable place for men and women relationship-focused.''
 He says his site is one of the top five Internet sellers of sex toys. His typical customer is a woman in her late 30s to late 40s, married with children at home. ''This woman is in a relationship, she wants something a little more exciting, but not swing clubs,'' Dr. Gardos said. ''Something that's fun to play with her husband.'' His fastest growing market, he said, is men and women from their mid-40s to mid-50s.
 Jim Daniels, vice president of marketing for Trojan, said the company began conducting focus groups in the early 2000s and was struck by how many women and men talked about vibrator use. ''We wanted to fund a study that would quantify consumer interest for us,'' he said.
 Trojan, too, is seeking that boomer market; TV commercials for the Trojan Vibrating Touch Fingertip Massager that made its debut in 2008 feature a middle-aged woman. ''Our products are sold in all major retail outlets,'' Mr. Daniels said.
 Even through bad economic times, vibrator sales are up 20 percent in the last year, he said. The Trojan people know a good thing when they see it, and have been busy inventing a new vibrator product each year. Last April, it was the Trojan Vibrating Mini Personal Massager. ''We keep adding bells and whistles,'' Mr. Daniels said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: NOT THE AVON LADY: Alexa Varricchio, standing at top, hosts a Pure Romance party at her Ithaca, N.Y., home. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARY BUTTOLPH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); WOMEN (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); SOAPS & DETERGENTS MFG (77%); MEN (76%); BABY BOOMERS (74%); MASTURBATION (73%); MENOPAUSE (72%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (71%); WRITERS (70%); CONVENIENCE STORES (64%)

COMPANY: CHURCH & DWIGHT CO INC (55%); 7-ELEVEN INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: INDIANA UNIVERSITY (83%)

TICKER: CHD (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (55%); SIC2812 ALKALIES & CHLORINE (55%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (51%); NAICS445120 CONVENIENCE STORES (51%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2009



757 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 111 words

HEADLINE: Letters: The Dollar and Inflation

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 In ''Why Inflation Isn't the Danger'' (Economic View, June 21), Alan S. Blinder did not address the role of the United States dollar. 
 Our massive deficits have been undermining the strength of the dollar for many years. Now, with the huge new printing of money by the Federal Reserve, and moves by China and other nations to avoid having to trade in dollars, the outlook for the currency is increasingly grim. 
 Regardless of how weak the consumer may be, if the United States must compete in the global marketplace with a debilitated currency, the price of things we need -- not just desire -- will rise.
 Jeffrey B. Diamond
 Rye Brook, N.Y., June 21

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CURRENCIES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2009



758 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 246 words

HEADLINE: Up Front

BYLINE: By THE EDITORS

 BODY:
Unemployment may be soaring, but June has been a good month for books about working stiffs.
 ''Shop Class as Soulcraft,'' Matthew Crawford's passionate ode to the manual trades, has notched a few weeks on the extended hardcover nonfiction best-seller list. And in this week's Book Review, Caleb Crain reviews ''The Pleasures and Sorrows of Work,'' Alain de Botton's exploration of accounting firms and cookie factories, fishing boats and therapists' offices. 
 Crain, a journalist and critic living in Brooklyn, is no stranger to odd jobs. ''Probably the most purely pleasurable job I ever had was with the Prague branch of the Soros Foundation in 1991, giving away airplane tickets to Czechs and Slovaks in municipal government who had been invited to professional conferences in America,'' he said in an e-mail message. ''Since there were only about 11 such people in all of Czechoslovakia at the time, I didn't have to turn anyone down. I'm very good at giving away money indiscriminately, it turns out.'' He declined to name the most unpleasant job he has ever had, but insisted that he thoroughly enjoyed the time he was hired to install a dropped ceiling in a Houston carwash. What about punching the clock on Grub Street? ''I can't think of writing as a job, even though it is how I earn my way now,'' said Crain, who contributes to The New Yorker and The New York Review of Books and is currently working on a novel. ''I don't feel as if I have any choice in the matter.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JOE CIARDIELLO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); WRITERS (78%); BESTSELLERS (73%); CITIES (54%); TRAVEL TICKETS (54%); CITY GOVERNMENT (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%); PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (70%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); CZECH REPUBLIC (70%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2009



759 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Automobiles; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1281 words

HEADLINE: Mahindra Says Wait and See

BYLINE: By NICK KURCZEWSKI; Lawrence Ulrich contributed reporting from New York.

DATELINE: MUMBAI, India 

 BODY:
 IF you go for a drive in this overstimulating, overwhelming city of 20 million, it is best to bring along courage, stamina and a very loud horn. Thankfully, the Mahindra Scorpio sport utility vehicle I recently took for a spin came equipped, at least, with a fine horn.
 Jostling with city buses, challenging slow and rickety taxicabs for gaps in the teaming jumble of traffic, the Indian-built Scorpio kept me out of trouble. 
 For a tall and boxy truck, the Scorpio has surprisingly quick steering. Its high-set seats and large windows provide an excellent view of the road ahead, though good visibility is of minimal value when the foreigner at the wheel misses a road sign and nearly drives down the wrong side of a bustling waterfront avenue. A quick correction saved the day.
 Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. will need similarly quick reflexes but better foresight, along with a degree of luck, to make good on its promise to enter the American auto market late this year. 
 Mahindra says it plans to start sending two- and four-door versions of a truck -- here, it is called simply the Pik-Up -- to the United States by year-end. Its distribution partner is Global Vehicles U.S.A., an Atlanta-based importer. The second act is to come next year with imports of a version of the Scorpio that I tested, modified for American tastes and standards. 
 Though unfamiliar to many Americans, Mahindra has a history that predates India's independence from Britain. The company was set up in 1945 as Mahindra & Mohammed to assemble Willys Jeeps for American servicemen stationed in Asia. Over the years it expanded into construction, finance and production of trucks and tractors, among other things. But it did not move into the passenger car business until 1995, when it teamed up with Ford to build the Fiesta compact car in India. 
 Mahindra builds the low-price Dacia Logan sedan in cooperation with Renault-Nissan, and recently introduced the eight-passenger Xylo utility wagon.
 The company's core activities, however, remain focused on tractors, trucks and large S.U.V's. In the United States, Mahindra's presence has been limited to building and selling tractors and farm equipment. The company also sponsors a Nascar team and a championship bull-riding series. Nonetheless, Mahindra could find cracking the hypercompetitive American market for light trucks -- especially during a global recession -- far harder than hawking tractors or sponsoring all-American sporting events. 
 John Perez, chief executive of Global Vehicles, says he thinks there is room for an affordable, utilitarian Indian pickup in a market swarming with outsize gadget-laden trucks from Detroit -- not to mention those from Toyota, Nissan and others.
 Mahindra's American strategy is to offer high value and good mileage from efficient diesel engines.
 One thing missing is a name. The company has yet to decide what to call its trucks in the United States -- a name previously proposed, the Appalachia, was dropped. Now Global Vehicles says pickups sold in America will wear alphanumeric badges.
 Global Vehicles said last week that it had signed up 336 dealers across the United States.
 Mahindra could also benefit from the woes of Chrysler and General Motors, as the two companies cut costs and abandon dealerships. Together, the two bankrupt Detroit automakers have eliminated more then 3,200 dealers this year. 
 ''Ford, G.M. and Dodge have had a lot of years to build this kind of truck, and they haven't done it,'' Casey McGraw, vice president for sales at Global Vehicles, said of the diesel-powered pickup. ''And we know that the price point has to make up for lack of name recognition.'' 
 For people willing to take a look, the Mahindra should stand out, with quirky looks, a tough-truck resume and what Global Vehicles promises will be the best mileage of any pickup sold in America. 
 Bigger than the compact Ford Ranger but smaller than the midsize Dodge Dakota, the trucks' cargo and towing capacity will beat the existing models in either category, the company says. 
 With a 2.2-liter 4-cylinder turbodiesel -- rated at 140 horsepower and 236 pound-feet of torque -- the pickup will be capable of more than 30 m.p.g. on the highway, Global Vehicles says. The truck will offer a 6-speed automatic transmission and standard safety features including antilock brakes and electronic stability control. Options are to include leather seats and a navigation system.Pricing isn't set, but the company says a well-equipped model is likely to be in the mid-$20,000 range.
 Most dealers will sell Mahindra as a sideline to more established brands. Dealers pay $195,000 for a franchise, which includes technical training for a mechanic, and are required to set aside 900 square feet of floor space including a ''heritage wall'' with highlights of Mahindra's history. 
 ''We're not asking dealers to build $3 million facilities,'' Mr. McGraw said. ''It's more like, 'Put up a sign, and let's go sell some trucks.'''
 One dealer putting up a sign isColeman Hoyt, owner of Acton Lincoln Mercury in Acton, Mass. Mr. Hoyt expects the pickup to attract not only contractors and landscapers, but outdoorsy, break-the-mold types who want a serious truck in a compact and economical package. Fans of diesel engines, with their reputation for mileage and durability, are another target. For now, all Mahindras destined for America will be diesel-powered.
 ''The potential buyer is definitely an outlier,'' Mr. Hoyt said. He concedes that the brand will take time and patience to build. ''We see it as a pleasant diversification,'' he added. ''If we can ultimately sell a few hundred a year, that would be terrific.'' 
 Yet one potential Mahindra franchisee, a large Ford dealer in Texas, said his deal was delayed for now because of the slumping economy. This dealer, who insisted on anonymity because he is involved in continuing negotiations with Global Vehicles, said the recession would make it even harder for Mahindra to challenge established truck makers -- especially since pickup owners tend to remain loyal to their brand.
 ''It's an extremely capable truck, but the timing is terrible,'' the dealer said. ''We kept coming back to how hard it would be to launch an unknown and unproven product.'' At the same time, small pickups have fallen out of fashion with Americans. Compact pickups accounted for just 2.7 percent of the overall auto market last year, according to Edmunds.com, compared with 5.1 percent in 2002.
 ''In the end, the car market is decided by the customer,'' said Deepesh Rathore, a Global Insight automotive analyst in Gurgaon, India.
 He said the success of Mahindra's expansion plans would depend more on the quality of the finished product than on the country of origin. ''Americans are very patriotic,'' Mr. Rathore said. ''But that doesn't stop them from buying a Toyota.''
 To counter quality concerns, Mahindra has put a fleet of vehicles through more than three million miles of testing, Global Vehicles says. 
 Product planners in India have taken Americans' habits, even their snacking proclivities, into consideration. The pickup's original cup holder was deemed too small for a nation that gulps supersize drinks. Models headed to America will hold larger cups.
 The company would also have to ramp up production of left-hand-drive versions and add air bags for the American market. The vehicles will have to meet safety and emission standards. Crash tests have to be conducted and the engines will have to meet strict new federal limits on smog-causing emissions. Mahindra is installing a smog-fighting Bosch urea-injection system similar to those used by German automakers.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ANOTHER S.U.V.: The Mahindra Scorpio.
AMERICA BOUND: The four-door Mahindra Pik-Up.(AU1)
 SIPPER: Pik-Up is said to get 30 m.p.g.(AU10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); SPORTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); SPORTS SPONSORSHIP (77%); TRAFFIC SIGNALS (76%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT MFG (73%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (72%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (72%); SEDANS (72%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (71%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT (63%); CONSTRUCTION (63%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD (84%); REGIE NATIONALE DES USINES RENAULT SA (83%)

TICKER: MHID (LSE) (84%); M&M (NSE) (84%); RNO (PAR) (83%); RNO (BIT) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%); NAICS333111 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (83%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (77%) UNITED STATES (97%); INDIA (92%); ASIA (54%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2009



760 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Automobiles; BEHIND THE WHEEL TATA NANO; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1106 words

HEADLINE: And Now, for Some Serious Belt-Tightening

BYLINE: By NICK KURCZEWSKI

DATELINE: PIMPRI, India 

 BODY:
 GIVEN that is was designed to be the world's cheapest car, should it matter whether the Tata Nano is any fun to drive? After all, base models start in India at $2,200 including taxes and fees -- less than a quarter of the sticker price of the least expensive new cars in the United States. 
 Impressive as this rock-bottom bottom line may be, it took squealing tires to convince me of the Nano's merits. 
 From behind the wheel of a bright-yellow model at Tata Motors' engineering and testing center here in a suburb of Pune, an industrial city some 60 miles southeast of Mumbai, the Nano proved agile and fun to hustle around the test track. The rear wheels could even be coaxed into a sports car-style slide. I found the Nano hugely entertaining, though the engineer riding shotgun beside me -- who seemed slightly queasy -- might have had a different view. 
 The turtle-shape four-door comes in three trim levels: base, midlevel CX and the top-of-the-line LX in which I spent much of my time. This version has air-conditioning and power front windows. Interestingly, for a car forged in the spirit of frugality, the relatively costly ($3,800) LX has proved to be the most popular Nano, Tata Motors says, accounting for more than half the orders.
 Indian customers have reasons to avoid the barest-bones model, which lacks air-conditioning, power brakes and even map pockets in the doors. The spoil-yourself LX comes with frills like central locking, body-color bumpers, fancier seat and door trim, including map pockets; cup holders in the console, foglights and an outlet for charging a cellphone. The LX even has a small spoiler that presumably helps to keep it anchored to the road in the unlikely event of high speeds. (The top speed is around 65 miles an hour.)
 While cost containment was a big factor in the Nano's development, safety features were not. While all Nanos have three-point safety belts, there are no air bags or antilock brakes.
 The steering is not power-assisted, but the car's light unloaded weight (1,320 pounds) and tight turning radius (13.1 feet) make it nimble. This proved especially useful when Tata Motors allowed a group of journalists to leave the test track and drive through the noontime scrum on city streets.
 Cheap though it is, I did not find the Nano to be so cheap that it squeaked. Nor did I hear any rattles on the cratered local roads, which made a credible stand-in for Manhattan's potholes. The tiny 12-inch wheels coped admirably with the rough terrain, and the power-assisted brakes -- old-style drums, not discs -- brought the car to a reassuring stop. 
 An easy to modulate clutch and sharply defined gates in the 4-speed manual transmission made rowing through the gears a breeze. There is no radio -- not even as an option -- to drown out cabin noise, but thankfully the interior din was limited to the whoosh of the air-conditioner and the distant putt-putt of the 624 cc 2-cylinder engine mounted in the rear. For comparison, that 0.6-liter engine is less than half the size of the 1.5-liter power plants in the Toyota Yaris and Honda Fit.
 Acceleration does not impress: from a stop, the Nano takes around 30 seconds to reach 60 miles an hour -- twice as long as the slowest gasoline-powered new car in America, the Smart ForTwo. And during my test drive, performance deteriorated noticeably when four or five people were in the car. 
 Tata Motors prefers to talk about this engine's carbon-dioxide emissions, which the company says are among the lowest for Indian cars, and fuel economy of 50 miles a gallon.
 Despite its seeming power deficit, in the cut and thrust of Indian traffic the Nano proved to be more of a hare than a tortoise. The Nano easily zipped around the ponderous trucks and wheezing auto rickshaws -- noisy three-wheel taxis -- clogging the streets. Though only 122 inches long (two feet shorter than a Mini Cooper), clever packaging somehow provides plenty of room for four full-size adults. 
 Visibility is excellent because of an upright seating position and an airy greenhouse. But the lack of an exterior passenger-side mirror -- another casualty of cost containment -- seemed not just a serious nuisance but a significant safety issue. 
 Throughout the car are reminders of the engineers' adherence to a squeaky-tight budget, aimed at holding the starting price to Tata's promise of 100,000 rupees, or $2,054. (With taxes and fees included, the price to consumers is about $150 more.)
 Cost-cutting tricks include a bare-bones dashboard made of a single piece of plastic, adaptable to markets with either right- or left-hand drive. There is only one windshield wiper and no outside opening for the luggage compartment. 
 The hinges and hardware required for a hatchback would have added too much cost, Tata's engineers said. So cargo has to be awkwardly loaded from inside the cabin after first folding down the rear bench seat. Buyers may want to factor chiropractor bills into the final cost of ownership.
 The car does come with a spare tire, which is stored in the nose.
 Ratan Tata, chairman of the Tata Group and Tata Motors, has said the Nano was conceived as a way to help India's working class, especially the countless families forced to travel on overburdened scooters and motorcycles. 
 And while the Nano is intended to provide affordable all-weather transportation for people who lack the money to buy existing cars, Tata Motors hopes the car's penny-pinching charm will captivate truly frugal customers around the world.
 Mr. Tata even has the United States in his sights.
 At the Geneva auto show in March, Mr. Tata announced that a better-equipped Nano would arrive in Europe by 2011. Fitted with air bags, a wider track between the wheels, revised bumpers and a more powerful 3-cylinder engine, the Nano Europa will meet European safety and emission standards, he said, while also selling as the lowest-price car in every market where it competes.
 An American version based on the Europa is also under development, Mr. Tata confirmed during an interview at the Geneva auto show, and could arrive around the same time. Company officials say a hatchback and an automatic transmission are both in the works.
 Tata has not disclosed prices for Europe or America, and it has not commented on how the cars might be sold. But it is conceivable that the cars could be offered at Chrysler dealerships, given Tata's business ties with Fiat, which now controls Chrysler. Sergio Marchionne, Fiat's chief executive, has said he would like a budget brand that fits below Fiat's existing models.
 INSIDE TRACK: The people's car for the 21st century? 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: HOLD THE FRILLS: Tata Motors says a version of its Nano could come to the United States.(AU1)
 COMMON DENOMINATOR: Sizing up a Nano at a New Delhi dealership, left, and taking one for a test drive.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY KEITH BEDFORD/BLOOMBERG NEWS)(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARIJAN MURAT/ EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)(AU10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY (78%); VEHICLE AIRBAGS (78%); ANTILOCK BRAKING SYSTEMS (64%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

COMPANY: TATA MOTORS LTD (57%)

TICKER: TTMT (LSE) (57%); TTM (NYSE) (57%); TATAMOTORS (NSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336120 HEAVY DUTY TRUCK MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (58%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (58%) UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2009



761 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1095 words

HEADLINE: Rebellion on the Range Over a Cattle ID Plan

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM

DATELINE: HORSE SPRINGS, N.M. 

 BODY:
Wranglers at the Platt ranch were marking calves the old-fashioned way last week, roping them from horseback and burning a brand onto their haunches. 
 What they were emphatically not doing, said Jay Platt, the third-generation proprietor of the ranch, was abiding by a federally recommended livestock identification plan, intended to speed the tracing of animal diseases, that has caused an uproar among ranchers. They were not attaching the recommended tags with microchips that would allow the computerized recording of livestock movements from birth to the slaughterhouse.
 ''This plan is expensive, it's intrusive, and there's no need for it,'' Mr. Platt said. 
 Mr. Platt said he already did all he could to fight epidemics. He does not bring any outside animals into his herds, and he happily staples on metal tags that identify animals to help with brucellosis control. But as he drove his pickup from grasslands into dense thickets of pinon pine on this highland desert that requires 100 acres per cow, he explained why he thought the federal plan was wrongheaded. 
 Mr. Platt called the extra $2 cost of the electronic tags an onerous burden for a teetering industry and said he often moved horses and some of his 1,000 head of cattle among three ranches here and in Arizona. Small groups of cattle are often rounded up in distant spots and herded into a truck by a single person, who could not simultaneously wield the hand-held scanner needed to record individual animal identities, Mr. Platt said. And there is no Internet connection on the ranch for filing to a regional database. 
 Looking over the 22,000 acres that his cattle share with elk, pronghorns and mountain lions and where animals can easily disappear, Mr. Platt scoffed at the idea of reporting every death, as animal health officials prefer.
 ''They can't comprehend the vastness of a ranch like this,'' he said of federal officials. ''They don't appreciate what is involved logistically.'' 
 Ranchers like Mr. Platt have been joined by small-scale family farmers and other agrarian advocates to oppose the national animal identification system, a plan first broached five years ago by the Bush administration. It has created more visceral opposition than officials expected. 
 The plan, which is still being ironed out, might have seemed simple enough. With the ever-present threat of animal epidemics, why not modernize the system for identifying livestock? Why not keep computer records of movements so that when a cow is discovered with bovine tuberculosis or mad cow disease, its prior contacts can be swiftly traced? The disease source and the herds needing to be quarantined can be determined faster, officials said. 
 ''Now, when there's an outbreak, we can't trace prior movements quickly, and we end up testing a lot more animals than necessary,'' said Neil Hammerschmidt, director of the identification program for the federal Agriculture Department. ''We want to put in place the infrastructure prior an outbreak.''
 Mr. Platt expresses his opposition in more measured terms than many. Web sites analyze every official statement with suspicion, and angry farmers have packed the ''listening sessions'' held around the country this spring by the Obama administration's new agriculture secretary. 
 Rumors have swirled, and farmers are asking whether the government will really require tags on every baby chick and catfish fingerling or a computer report when a pet pony trots onto a neighbor's land. 
 Underlying the opposition is the fragile economics of ranches and small farms, which are already disappearing. The extra cost of radio tags, scanners and filing reports when animals change premises would be crushing, some smaller producers say. 
 ''My main beef is that these proposed rules were developed by people sitting in their offices with no real knowledge of animal husbandry and small farms,'' said Genell Pridgen, an owner of Rainbow Meadow Farms in Snow Hill, N.C., which rotates sheep, cattle, pigs, turkeys and chickens among three properties and sells directly to consumers and co-ops. 
 ''I feel these regulations are draconian,'' Ms. Pridgen said, ''and that lobbyists from corporate mega-agribusiness designed this program to destroy traditional small sustainable agriculture.'' 
 Paul Hamby, owner of Hamby Dairy Supply in Maysville, Mo., and a vocal opponent of the plan, said, ''It is very much an economic and class warfare issue.'' 
 ''Fifty years ago,'' Mr. Hamby said, ''hundreds of thousands of farms raised hogs, and now very few players have control of the market. I believe one of the reasons for this plan is to consolidate the cattle industry.'' 
 The notion of centralized data banks, even for animals, has also set off alarms among libertarians, drawing former supporters of the Ron Paul presidential campaign like Mr. Hamby into the fray. One group has issued a bumper sticker that reads, ''Tracking cattle now, tracking you soon.''
 Among all the different types of livestock, cattle have the most pressing need for improved records, said Mr. Hammerschmidt, who added that some opponents were misinformed. 
 ''It's never been our intent to implant chickens, especially chicks,'' he said. ''People out there are saying that they have to microchip every chicken, and if that chicken crosses the road they'll have to report that event to the government. That has really stirred the pot.'' 
 Nor do officials want every small producer to buy a $1,000 scanner, Mr. Hammerschmidt said. ''The tag could be read at the market or feedlot, where they are more likely to have a reader,'' he said, suggesting looser monitoring than many ranchers fear. 
 Mr. Hammerschmidt pointed out that Michigan and Wisconsin, to strengthen the fight against bovine tuberculosis, now require radio tags for cattle. But he emphasized that the federal government had not mandated the tags, instead hoping it could prod states and individuals to join in.
 ''At the end of the day,'' he said, ''we need the ability to trace an animal where there's a disease issue.'' 
 Mr. Platt, the rancher, said he believed that the authorities already had ample information to pounce on diseases. 
 Though he is one of the larger independent ranchers, the business is precarious, Mr. Platt said, sustained by land trades and sales. ''Any new expense will mean a loss for us,'' he said. 
 Mr. Platt watched with pride as one of his adult sons worked a cutter horse in a timeless ritual, hiving off calves from the herd in the branding corral. ''We do this because we just enjoy it,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: At the Platt family ranch in Horse Springs, N.M., cattle were rounded up to be branded and tagged. The family opposes a government plan to track cattle with computer chips.
Jay Platt, the third-generation proprietor of the ranch, said the methods now in use were enough to fight the spread of disease. (pg.A14)
 A calf being branded at the Platt family ranch. The government wants cattle raisers to tag their animals with microchips. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIC DRAPER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A21) MAP: The Platt ranch covers 22,000 acres in western New Mexico. (pg.A21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); ANIMALS (89%); ANIMAL QUARANTINE (89%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (89%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (79%); BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (75%); FAMILY FARMS (72%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (71%); WILD CATS (71%); COMPUTER CHIPS (71%); TUBERCULOSIS (60%); EPIDEMICS (57%); COMPUTER SCANNERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2009



762 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 199 words

HEADLINE: The Chatter

 BODY:
''It really has become kind of an icon.''
 Mary Jane Hellyar, the departing president of the Film, Photofinishing and Entertainment Group at Eastman Kodak. The company announced that it would retire Kodachrome, its oldest film stock, because of declining customer demand in a digital age. 
 ''Why does that chocolate chip cookie have such power over me?''
 Dr. David A. Kessler, former head of the Food and Drug Administration and author of ''The End of Overeating.'' He says that food companies ''design food for irresistibility'' and that ''it's been part of their business plans.''
 ''What we have is the Wild, Wild West of investing.''
 David A. Krasnow, president of Pension Advisors, an asset management firm, at a government hearing on the popular target-date mutual funds. Many of the funds, which are supposed to become safer as their investors grow older, have seemed to get riskier instead.
 ''It's good to have a locomotive out there pulling the train.''
 Angel Gurria, secretary general of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, on the relative economic strength of developing countries like China, India and Brazil, compared with Europe, the United States and Japan.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); BUSINESS PLANS (77%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (77%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (65%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (64%)

COMPANY: EASTMAN KODAK CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (57%); ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (79%); INDIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2009



763 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: Beetles Add New Dynamic to Forest Fire Control Efforts

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

DATELINE: DENVER 

 BODY:
Summer fire seasons in the great forests of the West have always hinged on elements of chance: a heat wave in August, a random lightning strike, a passing storm front that whips a small fire into an inferno or dampens it with cooling rain.
 But tiny bark beetles, munching and killing pine trees by the millions from Colorado to Canada, are now increasingly adding their own new dynamic. As the height of summer fire season approaches, more than seven million acres of forest in the United States have been declared all but dead, throwing a swath of land bigger than Massachusetts into a kind of fire-cycle purgatory that forestry officials admit they do not yet have a good handle on for fire prediction or assessment. 
 Dead trees, depending on how recently they died, may be much more flammable than living trees, or slightly more flammable, or even for a certain period less flammable. The only certainties are that dead forests are growing in size and scale -- 22 million more acres are expected to die over the next 15 years -- and that foresters, like the fire-tower lookouts of old, are keeping their eyes peeled and their fingers crossed. 
 ''There's just a lot more fuel in those dead forests available to burn,'' said Bob Harrington, the Montana state forester, who is focusing additional resources this summer on a three-million-acre zone of beetle-infested forest from Butte to Helena. 
 More than 100,000 people live in that area, and Mr. Harrington said that although fire forecasts for Montana, as in most of the West, called for only an average fire season, dead forests do not play by the rules. They can dry out much faster in heat, without living tree tissue to hold water. 
 Other beetle watchers say the nightmare of a severe fire season concentrated in the dead-forest zone running along the spine of the Rocky Mountains has, so far, been averted. In Colorado, a combination of deep snows last winter followed by a wet spring has kept fire danger low. But scientists say that recent winters have also lacked the stretches of deep cold -- 20 to 40 degrees below zero -- that can check the insects' spread.
 ''Right now, in our neck of the woods, we're really wet,'' said Mary Ann Chambers, a spokeswoman for the federal Forest Service's bark beetle incident management team for a five-state region that includes Colorado. ''We seem to have dodged the bullet -- again.'' 
 The government's four-month fire forecast issued in June called for a potentially more active fire season in central Washington and Northern California. But most of the rest of the region, like the country, is expecting normal or below-normal conditions. 
 Budgets for firefighting and prevention, increasingly important as more people move closer to the edge of the public lands, are in flux in the fire zones, forestry experts say. Millions of dollars in federal economic stimulus money is flowing toward tree-thinning for fuel reduction in and around communities like Ruidoso, N.M., and Anchorage. But many states' budgets for fire protection are being battered and squeezed by the recession. 
 ''There's a potential for substantial reductions in capacity in many states,'' said Dan Smith, the fire director for the National Association of State Foresters. Fire prevention tactics are also being reassessed. 
 A study published this month in The Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences showed that federal land-management agencies, from 2004 through the end of last year, had mostly failed to reduce fire fuels near communities that are in or next to wildland forests -- a critical zone of high fire risk called the wildland-urban interface. 
 The study said that 70 percent of that forest-fringe land was now privately owned in the 11 states west of the Plains States (not counting Alaska or Hawaii), and that partly because of ownership difficulties, only 11 percent of the fire mitigation work had occurred in the places it was needed most. 
 Tania Schoennagel, a research scientist at the University of Colorado, Boulder, and the study's chief author, said private ownership of some of the wildland-urban interface areas made it difficult to treat those lands and was a vexing problem for federal fire managers. 
 ''They're between a rock and a hard place,'' Dr. Schoennagel said. 
 Meanwhile, the beetles munch on.
 The Forest Service proposed a tree-thinning program of fire protection just outside Helena, for example, in 1997, when the forest was green and healthy. The project was stalled by litigation for 12 years until earlier this year, when a federal appeals court in San Francisco finally ruled for the Forest Service that the thinning plan could proceed. 
 ''In the interim, the bark beetle entered the picture,'' said Duane Harp, a district ranger in the Helena National Forest. ''Now 90 percent of the trees when we started the project are dead.'' 
 Government lawyers said the Forest Service could be sued again if it went ahead with the old plan on a now fundamentally altered forest, Mr. Harp said, so foresters are reassessing the impact of thinning in a dead forest. 
 A technological race to catch up with the beetles and their impact on fire risk is also under way. A forest-health mapping system that will account for the depredations of insects is being developed by the Forest Service and the Interior Department. Called Landfire, the program is expected to be ready by late next year, in time for the 2011 fire season, managers say. 
 Using satellite assessment and on-the-ground reports, the system will try to give fire managers and forecasters a sense of vegetation stress or health in fire zones across the country, peering into the secret lives of moths, wood borers, beetles and defoliators of every stripe.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Firefighters in a multiagency training drill last week in Dublin, Calif. Forecasts see an average fire season in most of the nation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREST FIRES (90%); FIRES (90%); FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (90%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (90%); WEATHER (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (78%); MOUNTAINS (73%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (60%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (79%); HELENA, MT, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (70%) COLORADO, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MONTANA, USA (92%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2009



764 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; STRATEGIES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: Why Investors Bet On Bankrupt Companies

BYLINE: By MARK HULBERT. 
Mark Hulbert is editor of The Hulbert Financial Digest, a service of MarketWatch. E-mail: strategy@nytimes.com

 BODY:
SINCE General Motors declared bankruptcy early this month, its common stock has traded for as much as $1.59 a share; it closed on Friday at $1.16. Those aren't great prices, unless you consider that the company has warned investors that ''even under the most optimistic of scenarios,'' those shares are likely to be worthless.
 Why would anyone buy shares of a bankrupt company? It would be easy to conclude that investors are simply being irrational -- and, undoubtedly, some of them are. But several studies of past bankruptcies raise the possibility that the market is being less irrational than it looks. 
 Every company, of course, has a predetermined pecking order -- known technically as ''absolute priority'' -- that specifies which creditors will be paid before others in a bankruptcy proceeding. Senior creditors, like banks, are typically at the top of the list; bondholders are lower on the ranking, and holders of preferred stock lower still. Owners of common stock are at the very bottom; they are to be paid only after everyone ranked higher has been paid first. 
 That's the theory. And, presumably, if it were followed in the case of G.M., shareholders would almost certainly get nothing. G.M. bonds, which are higher in absolute priority than the common stock, have been trading for around 10 cents on the dollar. If holders of such bonds aren't betting that they will be made whole, what makes owners of G.M.'s stock think they'll get anything?
 One possible answer is that bankruptcy courts don't always follow the absolute priority ranking, according to Adam V. Reed, a finance professor at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. In fact, Professor Reed said in an interview, some studies have found that such departures were common in the past. So he concludes that it's not out of the question that holders of G.M. common stock will receive some consideration from the bankruptcy court.
 Of course, it's hard to gauge the probability of this in G.M.'s case. Even trickier is measuring what any possible consideration would be worth. But every day, the markets face the equally daunting task of discounting uncertain outcomes -- and are famously efficient at putting price tags on them. Why would markets suddenly become inefficient in the case of bankruptcies?
 One study from a decade ago analyzed bankrupt companies' stocks as though they were long-term call options, deeply out of the money. The study, ''Market Valuation of Bankrupt Firms: Is There an Anomaly?,'' appeared in the spring 1999 issue of the Quarterly Journal of Business and Economics. Its authors were three finance professors: Ben Branch of the University of Massachusetts in Amherst; Philip S. Russel, now of Philadelphia University; and Violet M. Torbey of Bond University in Australia. 
 Using the Black-Scholes options pricing model, one of the most widely employed on Wall Street for valuing derivatives, the professors found that the market might be realistically pricing the stocks of bankrupt companies. (That model calculates what an option is theoretically worth, given variables like its strike price, the time until expiration and the volatility of the underlying stock.)
 Their conclusion had to be somewhat tentative, however, because precise values were not available for all these variables. For example, there is no strike price associated with a bankrupt company's stock. Nor is there a predefined time until expiration. With different estimates for these and other parameters, the Black-Scholes model would have reached a different conclusion.
 In any case, Professor Branch said in an interview, the odds are extremely low that G.M.'s stock will be higher when the company emerges from Chapter 11 than the 75 cents it fetched at the end of the day it filed for bankruptcy. He said that in just 14 of the 154 cases in the study, or less than 10 percent, would an investor have made money over the bankruptcy period.
 Though the 14 winners produced an average gain of 114 percent over this period, their success wasn't nearly enough to overcome the losses of the other 140. Across the sample, in fact, the average return between filing for bankruptcy and emerging from it was a loss of 70 percent. 
 PROFESSOR BRANCH likened the stock of a bankrupt company to a lottery ticket that has only a small chance of paying off -- and large odds of being worthless.
 If the market were completely rational, the stock of the average company entering bankruptcy would be priced to provide investors with enough profit on those few occasions when they win to more than make up for the much greater number of cases in which they lose. 
 It's impossible to say, of course, whether the price of G.M.'s stock is low enough to qualify. But it's clear that, like a lottery ticket, it is inappropriate for all but the most speculative of play money. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (92%); COMMON STOCK (91%); BONDS (90%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (89%); RANKINGS (88%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (86%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (86%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); PREFERRED STOCK (78%); INTERVIEWS (62%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (78%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2009



765 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2579 words

HEADLINE: Playing It Safe in Cancer Research

BYLINE: By GINA KOLATA

 BODY:
Among the recent research grants awarded by the National Cancer Institute is one for a study asking whether people who are especially responsive to good-tasting food have the most difficulty staying on a diet. Another study will assess a Web-based program that encourages families to choose more healthful foods.
 Many other grants involve biological research unlikely to break new ground. For example, one project asks whether a laboratory discovery involving colon cancer also applies to breast cancer. But even if it does apply, there is no treatment yet that exploits it.
 The cancer institute has spent $105 billion since President Richard M. Nixon declared war on the disease in 1971. The American Cancer Society, the largest private financer of cancer research, has spent about $3.4 billion on research grants since 1946. 
 Yet the fight against cancer is going slower than most had hoped, with only small changes in the death rate in the almost 40 years since it began. 
 One major impediment, scientists agree, is the grant system itself. It has become a sort of jobs program, a way to keep research laboratories going year after year with the understanding that the focus will be on small projects unlikely to take significant steps toward curing cancer.
 ''These grants are not silly, but they are only likely to produce incremental progress,'' said Dr. Robert C. Young, chancellor at Fox Chase Cancer Center in Philadelphia and chairman of the Board of Scientific Advisors, an independent group that makes recommendations to the cancer institute. 
 The institute's reviewers choose such projects because, with too little money to finance most proposals, they are timid about taking chances on ones that might not succeed. The problem, Dr. Young and others say, is that projects that could make a major difference in cancer prevention and treatment are all too often crowded out because they are too uncertain. In fact, it has become lore among cancer researchers that some game-changing discoveries involved projects deemed too unlikely to succeed and were therefore denied federal grants, forcing researchers to struggle mightily to continue. 
 Take one transformative drug, for breast cancer. It was based on a discovery by Dr. Dennis Slamon of the University of California, Los Angeles, that very aggressive breast cancers often have multiple copies of a particular protein, HER-2. That led to the development of herceptin, which blocks HER-2. 
 Now women with excess HER-2 proteins, who once had the worst breast cancer prognoses, have prognoses that are among the best. But when Dr. Slamon wanted to start this research, his grant was turned down. He succeeded only after the grateful wife of a patient helped him get money from Revlon, the cosmetics company. 
 Yet studies like the one on tasty food are financed. That study, which received a grant of $200,000 over two years, is based on the idea that since obesity is associated with an increased risk of cancer, understanding why people have trouble losing weight could lead to better weight control methods, which could lead to less obesity, which could lead to less cancer. 
 ''It was the first grant I ever submitted, and it was funded on the first try,'' said the principal investigator, Bradley M. Appelhans, an assistant professor of basic medical sciences and psychology at the University of Arizona. Dr. Appelhans said he realized it would hardly cure cancer, but hoped that ''it will provide knowledge that will incrementally contribute to more effective cancer prevention strategies.''
 Even top federal cancer officials say the system needs to be changed. 
 ''We have a system that works over all pretty well, and is very good at ruling out bad things -- we don't fund bad research,'' said Dr. Raynard S. Kington, acting director of the National Institutes of Health, which includes the cancer institute. ''But given that, we also recognize that the system probably provides disincentives to funding really transformative research.'' 
 The private American Cancer Society follows a similarly cautious path. Last year, it awarded $124 million in new research grants, with some money coming from large donors but most from events like walkathons and memorial donations. 
 Dr. Otis W. Brawley, chief medical officer at the cancer society, said the whole cancer research effort remained too cautious. 
 ''The problem in science is that the way you get ahead is by staying within narrow parameters and doing what other people are doing,'' Dr. Brawley said. ''No one wants to fund wild new ideas.''
 He added that the problem of getting money for imaginative but chancy proposals had worsened in recent years. There are more scientists seeking grants -- they surged into the field in the 1990s when the National Institutes of Health budget doubled before plunging again.
 That makes many researchers, who need grants not just to run their labs but also sometimes to keep their faculty positions, even more cautious in the grant proposals they submit. And grant review committees become more wary about giving scarce money to speculative proposals.
 Philanthropies, which helped some researchers try outside-the-box ideas, are now having financial problems. And advances in technology have made research more expensive.
 ''Scientists don't like talking about it publicly,'' because they worry that their remarks will be viewed as lashing out at the health institutes, which supports them, said Dr. Richard D. Klausner, a former director of the National Cancer Institute.
 But, Dr. Klausner added: ''There is no conversation that I have ever had about the grant system that doesn't have an incredible sense of consensus that it is not working. That is a terrible wasted opportunity for the scientists, patients, the nation and the world.''
 A Big Idea Without a Backer
 For 25 years, Eileen K. Jaffe received federal grants to run her lab. As a senior scientist at the Fox Chase Cancer Center, with a long list of published papers in prestigious journals, she is a respected, established researcher. 
 Then Dr. Jaffe stumbled upon results that went against textbook explanations, suggesting that it might be possible to find an entirely new class of drugs that could disable proteins that fuel cancer cells. Now she wants to find chemicals that might be developed into such drugs. 
 But her grant proposal was rejected out of hand by the institutes of health, not even discussed by a review panel. She had no preliminary data showing that the idea was likely to work, something reviewers always want to see, and the idea was just too unprecedented.
 Dr. Jaffe epitomizes the scientist who realizes that if she were to single-mindedly pursue her unorthodox idea, her ''career may be ruined in the process,'' in the words of Dr. Brawley of the American Cancer Society. 
 Dr. Jaffe is just conceiving her project; it is much to soon to know whether it will result in a revolutionary drug. And even if she does find potential new drugs, it is not clear that they will be effective. Most new ideas are difficult to prove, and most potential new drugs fail.
 So Dr. Jaffe was not entirely surprised when her grant application to look for such cancer drugs was summarily rejected. 
 ''They said I don't have preliminary results,'' she said. ''Of course I don't. I need the grant money to get them.''
 Dr. Young, chancellor at Fox Chase, said Dr. Jaffe's situation showed why people with bold new ideas often just give up.
 ''You can't prove it will work in advance,'' he said. ''If you could, it wouldn't be a high-risk idea.''
 It is a long haul, Dr. Jaffe knows. And she has already had to downsize her lab. But, she said, she will persist.
 Angels Outside Government
 At the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute in Boston, Dr. Ewa T. Sicinska knew she would have a similar problem with her research. She wanted to grow human cancers in mice. Unlike Dr. Jaffe, though, Dr. Sicinska did not even apply for government money.
 It is not that the project was unimportant.
 ''Rather than have to start a human clinical trial to test new drugs, we want to test them first in mice with real human tumors,'' said Dr. George D. Demetri, who leads the research group supporting Dr. Sicinska.
 Researchers have studied mouse cancers but, they acknowledge, they are just not the same as human cancers -- they are much easier to treat, and drugs that cure mice often do nothing in people. So, over the years, scientists have tried to implant human cancer cells in mice, but with little success.
 ''Everyone told us that if you take tumors out of patients and put them in mice, they don't grow,'' Dr. Demetri said. The tumor cells usually were put in a plastic dish before being implanted in mice. ''We said -- wait a minute. The cells are not growing in the plastic dish. They probably are dying. What if we bypass the dish?'''
 With that idea in mind, Dr. Demetri, convinced it was too speculative to get federal money, tapped an unusual source, the Ludwig Fund. Endowed by Daniel K. Ludwig, one of the world's richest men in the 1960s and 1970s, the fund supports unfettered cancer research at six medical centers in the United States, including Dana-Farber, to be used at the institutes' discretion. That put Dr. Sicinska in a very different position from that of Dr. Jaffe. She could try something chancy without a grant.
 Dr. Sicinska used a quarter of a million dollars of Ludwig money for this project, buying mice without immune systems, which meant they could not reject human tumors, and housing them in a germ-free basement lab. She spent months learning to implant tumors in the mice and enlisted geneticists to study the implanted tumors, making sure they did not mutate beyond recognition. 
 She spends her days in the lab, using a miniature ultrasound machine to scan the mice, hairless creatures with prominent ears. Four types of sarcomas -- cancers of fat, muscle or bone -- are growing in them and look genetically identical to the tumors removed from patients.
 Dr. Elias A. Zerhouni, former director of the National Institutes of Health, said he was not sure that a grant for the project would have been turned down. The N.I.H., he said, does finance research on mouse models for human cancer. 
 But Dr. Demetri said he did not apply ''because we have lots of experience in what's fundable.'' His mouse work, he said, is exploratory, and he cannot predict what he will find or when. He certainly could not lay out a road map of what he would do and promise results in a few years.
 Studies With a Different Goal
 Researchers like Dr. Appelhans, who is studying weight control and tasty foods, do not expect to change the outlook for cancer patients anytime soon. But, they say, that does not mean their work is unimportant.
 Dr. Appelhans will study 85 overweight or obese women, measuring how much the tastes and textures of food drive their eating. Then they will be given a weight loss diet and nutritional counseling. Dr. Appelhans will ask whether those who are most tempted by the tastes and textures also have the most trouble following the diet. 
 As for the grant to assess a Web-based program to improve food choices, it is predicated on studies indicating that what people eat in childhood and adolescence may have an impact on cancer risk in middle and old age, said the grant recipient, Karen Weber Cullen, associate professor of pediatrics at Baylor College of Medicine. Some studies have found that people who reported having eaten fruits and vegetables when they were younger and maintaining a healthy weight were less likely to have cancer.
 Of course, it would not be feasible to follow participants for 30 or 40 years to see if their cancer risk was altered, Dr. Cullen noted. But, she added, ''we try to achieve improvements in diet and physical activity behaviors that become permanent and will make a difference in later years.'' 
 In the study asking whether a molecular pathway that spurs the growth of colon cancer cells also encourages the growth of breast cancer cells, the principal investigator ultimately wants to find a safe drug to prevent breast cancer. She received a typical-size grant of a little more than $1 million for the five-year study.
 The plan, said the investigator, Louise R. Howe, an associate research professor at Weill Cornell Medical College, is first to confirm her hypothesis about the pathway in breast cancer cells. But even if it is correct, the much harder research would lie ahead because no drugs exist to block the pathway, and even if they did, there are no assurances that they would be safe. 
 Dr. Howe said she hoped that she would find such drugs, or that companies would. Then she wants to develop a way to selectively deliver the drugs to precancerous breast cells. If it all works and the treatment is safe, women with precancerous conditions could avoid developing cancer. 
 Dr. Howe has reviewed grants for the cancer institute herself, she said, and realizes that, among other things, those that get financed must have ''a novel hypothesis that is credible based on what we know already.'' 
 Trying to Change the System
 The National Institutes of Health has started ''pilot experiments'' to see if there is a better way of getting financing for innovative projects, its acting director, Dr. Kington, said.
 They include ''pioneer awards,'' begun in 2004 for ''ideas that have the potential for high impact but may be too novel, span too diverse a range of disciplines or be at a stage too early to fare well in the traditional peer review process.'' But only 3 percent to 5 percent of the applicants get funded. Now the institutes have decided to set aside up to $25 million for ''transformative R01 grants,'' described as ''proposing exceptionally innovative, high risk, original and/or unconventional research with the potential to create or overturn fundamental paradigms.'' 
 About 700 proposals have come in, but only a small number are expected to be financed, according to Dr. Keith R. Yamamoto, a molecular biologist and executive vice dean of the school of medicine at the University of California, San Francisco, and co-chairman of the committee that reviewed the proposals last week.
 ''From reading the applications so far, there are really some fantastic things,'' Dr. Yamamoto said. 
 There also is new money from the federal economic stimulus package passed by Congress, which gives the National Institutes of Health $200 million for ''challenge grants'' lasting two years or less. 
 But the N.I.H. has received about 21,000 applications for 200 challenge grants, and researchers who have applied concede there is not much hope. 
 ''I did submit one of these challenge grants recently, like the rest of the lemmings,'' said Dr. Chi Dang, professor of medicine, cell biology, oncology and pathology at the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine. But, he added, ''there are many, many more applications than slots.'' 
 Some experienced scientists have found a way to offset the problem somewhat. They do chancy experiments by siphoning money from their grants.
 ''In a way, the system is encrypted,'' Dr. Yamamoto said, allowing those in the know to wink and do their own thing on the side.
 Great discoveries have been made with N.I.H. financing without manipulating the system, Dr. Klausner said. 
 ''But,'' he added, ''I actually believe that by and large it is despite, rather than because of, the review system.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: July 5, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about the effects of the grant system on innovative cancer research misstated the amount of grant money for a study asking whether people who are especially responsive to good-tasting food have the most difficulty staying on a diet. The grant was for $100,000 over two years, not $200,000 over two years. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Dr. Ewa T. Sicinska turned to a private foundation to finance her research.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRYCE VICKMARK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A1)
Dr. Ewa T. Sicinska, above, was able to avoid the grant process to finance her speculative research. Dr. Keith R. Yamamoto, below left, co-chairman of the committee that recently reviewed some requests for grants from the National Institutes of Health, said that ''some fantastic things'' had been proposed. But Dr. Otis W. Brawley, chief medical officer at the American Cancer Society, below right, said the cancer research effort remained too cautious.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRYCE VICKMARK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES
DAVID WALTER BANKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A18) CHART: Financing the War on Cancer: The National Cancer Institute, part of the National Institutes of Health, has spent tens of billions of dollars on cancer research and prevention since President Richard M. Nixon declared a war on cancer in 1971.(Sources: National Cancer Institute
 named programs and foundations)(A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CANCER (96%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (94%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (90%); ONCOLOGY (90%); GRANTS & GIFTS (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); DIETING (90%); SCIENCE FUNDING (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); BREAST CANCER (89%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); COLORECTAL CANCER (78%); TEST LABORATORIES (78%); CANCER DRUGS (78%); NUTRITION (78%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (73%); OBESITY RELATED DISEASES (73%); OBESITY (72%); COSMETICS (60%); TOILETRIES MFG (60%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (60%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL CANCER INSTITUTE (93%); NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (84%); AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY (83%)

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (69%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2009



766 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; TELEVISION; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1164 words

HEADLINE: Hey, Bud, What Comes After Our 15 Minutes?

BYLINE: By JON CARAMANICA

 BODY:
''THEY just offered me 'Celebrity Rehab,' '' David Faustino, TV's Bud Bundy, said with a sigh on the phone from his Los Angeles home this month. He has, he assured, no addiction to speak of, save for an affection for smoking weed. But these sorts of shows, the ones that debase willing celebrities long past their twilight, get offered to him all the time. ''I'm a Celebrity ... Get Me Out of Here'': turned that one down too.
 ''The money is decent,'' he said, ''but I don't want to go on TV and spill my guts.''
 For 11 seasons, ending in 1997, Mr. Faustino played Bud Bundy, the bumbling, stunted son on ''Married ... With Children,'' a role that still dominates his career. One of Mr. Faustino's best friends is Corin Nemec, who played the slick, wry, Ferris Bueller-esque lead on the series ''Parker Lewis Can't Lose.'' It lasted only three seasons, but it has defined him. (The DVD of the show's first season will be released on Tuesday.) 
 Hollywood second acts have changed, though. They now typically involve the immolation of the star's legacy, however thin, in favor of a new fame predicated on the death of the old one. Which got these two actors, angling for a comeback, to thinking: How can we best exploit ourselves before the only option left is to be exploited by others?
 After several years of bit roles and stretches of financial and personal tumult, they have lately begun to find answers. They formed a production company, F.N.B. Entertainment (with a partner, Todd Bringewatt), to develop ''ideas that wouldn't be career ruiners,'' Mr. Nemec said.
 The most significant of these has been ''Star-ving,'' an original Web series that had its premiere this winter on Crackle.com, part of Sony Pictures Television's digital division. In it the pair play loose versions of themselves: washed-up former idols desperate for an in, any in, back to their old lives.
 The humor is slapstick, sometimes puerile (both men bare their bottoms, repeatedly), sometimes race-baiting and sometimes aggressively dark. At the beginning of most episodes Mr. Faustino tries to kill himself: by hanging, by gunshot, by sucking on an exhaust pipe. In the last scenario he's interrupted by gawkers on a tour of star homes. At least they still care. After all, celebrity, even diminished celebrity, is still a functioning calling card. This summer Mr. Faustino will play himself, for the second time, on ''Entourage.'' ''Every day I have a tour bus that comes around my house and stops,'' Mr. Faustino said. ''You can hear them on their microphone. If you don't embrace it, it's going to destroy you.'' 
 Mr. Nemec, 37, and Mr. Faustino, 35, met in the 1980s on the kiddie-actor circuit and became friendly in their late teens. 
 ''I was a sheltered kid,'' Mr. Faustino recalled. ''Corin was a different ilk. When I started hanging out with Corin, he was hanging out with the worst of the worst, all the thugs of L.A.''
 Mr. Nemec was placid in recalling his rougher years. ''I had to leave North Hollywood High for my life,'' he said. ''My car got shot up, got shot at several times. I've got guys I ran with that are doing life in prison.''
 Two weeks after Mr. Nemec graduated from high school, ''Parker Lewis'' went into production, giving him ''an opportunity to redefine myself.'' But while he has since been a regular of independent film and a cast member on ''Stargate: SG-1'' for two seasons, he remains fixed in memory as the wily high school student, breezily manipulating the world around him.
 The two men reconnected while working on ''Killer Bud,'' a 2001 stoner film. Soon after, Mr. Nemec sent Mr. Faustino a script he'd written, and the two eventually formed a partnership. ''We were both dealing with that difficult transition from being known in the '90s to reinventing ourselves in a new decade,'' Mr. Nemec said. 
 Both men were working through failing marriages, and for a time Mr. Nemec was living in a small secondary apartment at Mr. Faustino's house. ''It's not a basement,'' Mr. Nemec said, ''but it is.'' (The setup is echoed on ''Star-ving'': Mr. Nemec is the no-good houseguest who goads Mr. Faustino into bad behavior.)
 They were introduced to the writer Sam Kass, a veteran of the shows ''Seinfeld'' and ''Arli$$'' (and whose brother is Mr. Faustino's manager), and together they conceptualized ''Star-ving.'' Shame was not a problem. ''They know who they are and why people recognize them,'' Mr. Kass said. ''The genius behind them is they didn't fight it. They're self-deprecating and had no problem playing the has-been factor.''
 Eric Berger, senior vice president for digital networks at Sony Pictures Television, saw a similar fearlessness. ''They're all in, in terms of character,'' he said. 
 One episode featured a decidedly glum ''Married ... With Children'' reunion, in which Mr. Faustino is replaced by Seth Green for a film based on the series. In another, Ed Asner plays the chief of an anti-Semitic TV network who tries to pair Mr. Faustino with Osama bin Laden for a show. In another, the men kidnap Alan Thicke for ransom, killing him in the process.
 ''Star-ving'' was budgeted at a half-million dollars for a dozen six-to-eight minute episodes -- modest by Hollywood standards but enough to give the show a professional polish. The series has been viewed more than three million times, according to Sony. Mr. Berger would not directly comment on the profitability of the series, only saying, ''We had stream goals that we very much exceeded.'' There will be a DVD release, and the show is being shopped to television networks.
 ''Star-ving'' is only one product of their collaboration, which Mr. Faustino called ''the second burst of my career.'' They're attached to ''The Bollywood Boys,'' a feature-length comedy, and they're shopping a TV series, ''Venice High,'' that Mr. Nemec, who wrote the pilot, describes as an ''anti-'90210,' about kids in the low-economic strata that don't have the perks of wealthy families.'' For that show Mr. Nemec drew upon his hooligan days: ''I realized what I went through had value.''
 ''I'm not flush,'' Mr. Nemec continued. ''I'm hoping this year will be the turning point that I don't have to rely on acting alone for survival.''
 In his down time Mr. Faustino is making music with old friends, including Tom Green and Brian Austin Green. Mr. Nemec is practicing his photography and creating graffiti pieces -- Pyke 169 is his tag -- on permission walls in Venice. 
 The two acknowledge that the subject matter and tone of ''Star-ving'' is not meant for everyone. ''I'm not going to say we haven't offended some people,'' Mr. Nemec said. But no one can be harder on Mr. Faustino and Mr. Nemec than they are on themselves. In the closing scene of the show's final episode they are nailed to crosses after a misadventure in the Kentucky backwoods.
 ''We figured: 'We're going to end the show crucified. We'll crucify ourselves,' '' Mr. Nemec said. ''Of course, there was no blowback on that.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The partners David Faustino, left above, and Corin Nemec. Top left, Mr. Faustino with Ed O'Neill and Christina Applegate in ''Married ... With Children''
above left, Mr. Nemec in ''Parker Lewis Can't Lose.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT YAGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY COLUMBIA TRISTAR TELEVISION/EVERETT COLLECTION)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY SONY PICTURES TELEVISION) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CELEBRITIES (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); CHILDREN (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2009



767 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2101 words

HEADLINE: Acer's Everywhere. How Did That Happen?

BYLINE: By ASHLEE VANCE

DATELINE: TAIPEI, Taiwan 

 BODY:
 ABOUT three months ago, Gianfranco Lanci flew into San Francisco International Airport, got off the plane and made his way to the passport control stations. As he pulled out his documents, the passport agent immediately recognized him as the chief executive of Acer.
 ''It was the first time in my life that has ever happened,'' he says. 
 Mr. Lanci may need to come to grips with his growing celebrity. After all, he has turned Acer, the personal computer seller based here, into a finely tuned organization that's obliterating some of the computing industry's longest-standing traditions and leading Taiwan's charge up the technology food chain. 
 This year, Acer appears poised to overtake Dell as the world's second-largest seller of personal computers, which would put a real dent into one of America's favorite dorm-to-empire business stories. And if this comes to pass, Acer would trail only Hewlett-Packard; no computer company based outside the United States has ever climbed so high. 
 ''That is a big achievement, and they have beaten the odds,'' says Roger L. Kay, a PC industry analyst and president of Endpoint Technologies Associates, a consultancy. ''Acer is a real comer.''
 And so is Taiwan. 
 Giants like Foxconn and Quanta have turned this island into a manufacturing hub, producing most of the music players, video game consoles, cellphones and computers bought by consumers and businesses. But the companies that sell these products -- H.P., Dell, Apple and others -- have put immense pressure on these manufacturers to keep prices low. 
 So business leaders and the Taiwanese government are urging local companies to think bigger. As a result, many have set out to become household names around the world, to nurture their software businesses and to own more key intellectual property in fast-growing parts of the technology industry. 
 ''Most of the companies in Taiwan are slaves to the boom-and-bust cycles,'' says Tien-haw Peng, the director of strategic planning at Prime View International, a company in Hsinchu, Taiwan that makes displays for computing devices. ''There's a goal to smooth things out by finding a better spot on the value chain.
 No Taiwanese company has done that faster, or more effectively, than Acer.
 To reach the No. 3 spot in the global computer business, Acer went through a corporate reinvention that offers fodder for business-school case studies. 
 For close to 15 years, Acer suffered from a split personality. One part of the company built computers for other PC sellers that would then put their labels on the machines. Another part of Acer sold very similar computers under the company's own brand.
 The arrangement created obvious conflicts, Acer executives say, with the group responsible for the Acer-branded products competing against the customers of the manufacturing arm. 
 In 2000, Acer began cleaving off its manufacturing division. A year later it formed an independent company called Wistron to handle these operations. A smaller, nimbler Acer emerged, outfitted with a new logo and lofty, global aspirations. 
 With a clean slate, Acer made what looked like counterintuitive decisions. It decided to focus on laptops for consumers, and to sell them through partners and retailers, avoiding any kind of direct sales.
 This approach placed Acer on a distinctly opposite path from Dell, which was the PC industry's major success story in 2000. Dell had surged past rivals like Compaq, I.B.M. and H.P. through an ultra-lean direct sales model that hinged to a large degree on shipping desktop computers to big businesses.
 In the subsequent years, however, computer retailing shifted in favor of Acer. Consumers now buy more computers than businesses do, and these buyers tend to prefer laptops to desktops. The advantages that Dell once gained by mixing and matching components for customers at its factories have faded as consumers have flocked to stores to buy preconfigured computers. 
 ''When we split, we thought that if the PC is going to become more of a commodity, consumers will end up as the largest part of the business,'' says Mr. Lanci, who became chief executive last year. ''Going direct didn't look like the right model for addressing that. After eight or nine years, it looks like we made a very good decision.'' 
 ACER'S ascent has accelerated during the global economic slowdown. The company made an aggressive move into the market for netbooks -- the small, low-cost laptops that have been a rare bright spot during the worst slump the PC industry has ever faced. Dell, which depends far more on PC sales to businesses, has struggled as companies have avoided buying new computers. 
 Last year, Acer's market share grew by 3 percentage points, to 10.9 percent, while Dell gained just 0.1 percentage point, to 15 percent, according to the research company IDC. Acer has continued to narrow that gap this year, claiming 11.6 percent of the market to Dell's 13.6 percent through the first quarter.
 Mr. Lanci says he thinks that Acer can keep growing, especially in the United States and China -- the two most prized regions for PC sellers. In addition, he's steering Acer into cellphones, arguing that the growing similarities between smartphones and laptops play directly to Acer's strengths. 
 ''I think we have the know-how, and these two worlds are going to merge,'' he says.
 In the meantime, Acer has snatched the mantle of quick-moving, lean operator from Dell. Be it wireless technology or super-thin laptops with a long battery life, Acer often ships computers with new features before any other large PC maker. And when it spots a hot trend started by another company -- netbooks, for instance, were the brainchild of Asustek, a fellow Taiwanese company -- Acer follows in force, bombarding the market with low-cost products. 
 Paul S. Otellini, the chief executive of Intel, credits Acer with embracing its underdog role and taking big risks to disrupt the status quo. ''They have done a spectacular job,'' he says.
 Acer's quest comes with challenges, of course. Its low-cost operating structure leaves only so much money for research and development. H.P. knocks Acer as having a limited breadth of products and a dearth of the homegrown features that can command higher prices. And Dell has moved into retail, Acer's home turf, while also releasing a flood of eye-catching new designs meant to tempt consumers.
 ''I think Acer is just one more competitor that doesn't focus on anything other than public relations to win in the marketplace,'' said Todd Bradley, the head of H.P.'s computer business. 
 Such comments, however, come as H.P.'s revenue from the PC business has declined 19 percent in each of the last two quarters. Dell's decline has been even more severe, with desktop sales falling about 30 percent each quarter. Acer's overall revenue has fallen as well, but only 7 percent and 8 percent, respectively.
 ''We are still able to manage even during these tough times,'' Mr. Lanci says. ''I don't believe the competitors will be able to match us.''
 UNLIKE its more diverse rivals, Acer directs all its attention toward one goal: selling computers. Such focus has helped Acer establish what analysts regard as the lowest cost structure in the industry.
 The company is free to pick and choose among manufacturers to obtain the lowest prices, and prides itself on having almost no inventory.
 ''We collect the order from the customer, place the order with the manufacturer and they ship it,'' Mr. Lanci says. ''We don't touch the goods.''
 Last year, Acer relied on about 6,000 employees to hit $16.6 billion in revenue and a profit of $358 million. While the company probably produces more revenue per employee than its rivals, it does so on the back of less profitable products. Its operating margin of 2 percent is about half that of H.P. and Dell, placing it in a profit category below even some retailers, said A. M. Sacconaghi, a securities analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company.
 ''There is a tradeoff between growth and profitability in the PC industry,'' Mr. Sacconaghi says. 
 Acer's strategy has played well during the PC industry downturn, as cheaper computers have proved more popular. The company has been willing to scoop up as much of this business as possible, while Dell has walked away from sales that would depress its profits. 
 Mr. Lanci says Dell, which declined to comment for this article, could lower its costs only if it were willing to take drastic measures. ''It would require big layoffs,'' he says. 
 These forceful remarks trickle out of his mouth in a subdued, matter-of-fact way. 
 The unassuming Mr. Lanci, who was born in Turin, Italy, commutes back and forth between his home in Milan and Acer's European offices in Lugano, Switzerland. Once a month, he makes camp at a hotel here for meetings, conducted in English, at Acer's headquarters.
 Mr. Lanci's predecessors, including Acer's founder, Stan Shih, and its chairman, J. T. Wang, engineered much of the company's sweeping strategic shift. But longtime watchers of the company argue that Mr. Lanci's mastery of the European market fueled Acer's belief that it could stretch out as a successful global brand. 
 After joining the company in 1997 as the managing director for Italy, Mr. Lanci turned Acer into the country's leading laptop seller in a matter of months. Three years later, he was put in charge of Acer's European business and began executing a familiar strategy. He lavished attention on smaller partners and large retailers alike, making sure that Acer computers appeared in just about every store possible. 
 And without any agenda for direct sales, Acer ingratiated itself with retailers -- instead of competing against them. 
 Other Taiwanese companies are copying Acer's playbook. Asustek is one of the fastest-growing PC brands in Europe. HTC used to produce cellphones for other companies but has seized some of the spotlight for itself with the first device to run Google's phone software. And BenQ, an Acer spin-off, has hit it big in China with tiny projectors and slick displays. 
 Many of these same companies have pumped money into software start-ups in the United States, hoping to add iPhone-like gloss to their products and generate larger profits. The big manufacturers have followed suit, bulking up their software divisions, while the Taiwanese government has poured money into software development, hoping to create a wave of start-ups with programs aimed at the Web and mobile devices. 
 Earlier this month, Prime View signed a deal to acquire E Ink for $215 million, giving it the leading display technology used in electronic reader devices like the Kindle from Amazon.com. 
 As for Acer, one of its immediate challenges is organizing the large stable of products it has assembled. 
 Over the last two years, it has acquired brands like eMachines, Gateway and Packard Bell. It pitches eMachines as its most affordable brand, while Acer-branded products cater to the mainstream. The Gateway moniker covers more expensive, flashier computers in the United States, while the Packard Bell brand serves the same purpose in Europe. 
 The four-front branding assault adds a thick layer of complexity to the company's ultimate goal of establishing a consistent image around the globe. But Mr. Lanci says PC makers must follow the lead of automobile companies and the likes of Procter & Gamble with a brand for every occasion now that consumers make up such a large part of the computer business. 
 ''One brand is almost impossible, if you want the right product and precision for the right customer profile,'' Mr. Lanci says.
 Focusing on such details may not be an art, but it's what makes many successful businesses hum. And analysts are quick to say that Mr. Lanci is, indeed, a details man. 
 ''Gianfranco's not a very flashy guy,'' says Mr. Kay, the industry analyst. ''Ultimately, he's an old-fashioned marketing guy.''
 Mr. Lanci now has to take on even bigger challenges. Acer intends to improve its sales in the United States by stealing thunder from H.P. and Dell, and to best Lenovo in China. Acer already ranks as the second-largest PC seller in Europe, behind H.P., according to IDC. 
 The unusual international structure and diverse management of Acer are seen as a plus, given the global playing field of the industry.
 ''It has Taiwanese engineering combined with a European business sensitivity,'' says Jen-Hsun Huang, the chief executive of Nvidia, the graphics chip maker. ''I think they have a flexibility and ability to adapt that is very unique.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Acer, based in Taiwan, is on a pace to overtake Dell as the second-biggest PC maker, propelled by its low-cost laptops and netbooks. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TAMI CHAPPELL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
MARK LENNIHAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.BU1)
 Acer has risen swiftly on the strength of netbooks and laptops, and its chief, Gianfranco Lanci, sees an opening with smartphones. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASHLEY PON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.BU6) CHART: THE CHALLENGER FROM TAIWAN: Although Hewlett-Packard and Dell have been the longtime leaders in the PC market, Acer has been closing the gap. (Source: IDC) (pg.BU6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (90%); COMPUTER MAKERS (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); EXECUTIVES (77%); CELEBRITIES (76%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (75%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (70%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (69%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (68%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (66%); ELECTRONIC GAME EQUIPMENT (64%); BRANDING (60%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (50%)

COMPANY: AMERICA'S FAVORITE CHICKEN CO INC (56%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (56%); E INK HOLDINGS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (54%); NEW YORK GIANTS (54%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334419 OTHER ELECTRONIC COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3679 ELECTRONIC COMPONENTS, NEC (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%) TAIWAN (98%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2009



768 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1139 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 SLAIN LEADER'S SON TO BE
 Lebanese Prime Minister
 Saad Hariri, the son of Lebanon's slain former prime minister and leader of its Western-aligned parliamentary majority, will serve as Lebanon's next prime minister. PAGE 11 
 UNLIKELY ALLY OF WEST BANK
 Ezra Nawi, an Israeli plumber, is helping poor Palestinians and thwarting settlers and soldiers, who view him with contempt. He may go to prison for a 2007 confrontation in the South Hebron hills. PAGE 6 
 DISILLUSIONMENT IN IRAN
 After two weeks of protests over election results, a heavy air of sadness has settled over Tehran. People say they are disappointed with how events have unfolded. PAGE 6 
 PLEA TO TALIBAN BEFORE VOTE
 The president of Afghanistan, Hamid Karzai, called on the Taliban to refrain from disrupting the upcoming national elections and to cast ballots themselves. PAGE 12
 PLAN TO CURB AFGHAN DRUGS 
 The United States is shifting its antidrug strategy in Afghanistan. Instead of destroying poppy fields, the U.S. will focus on intercepting drugs and helping farmers raise other crops. PAGE 12
 In Guinea-Bissau, 
 Few Hopes for Vote 8 
 National
 BARK BEETLES ADD DOUBT 
 To Fire-Control Efforts
 More than seven million acres of forest have been declared all but dead, many killed by tiny bark beetles, creating an abundance of kindle as the height of summer fire season in the West approaches. PAGE 17 
 RULING FOR EXILED MOTHER
 The Nebraska Supreme Court has ruled that the state acted improperly when it terminated a Guatemalan woman's rights to her two American-born children after she was detained on charges of falsely identifying herself to a police officer and then deported. PAGE 16 
 Metropolitan
 BRONX ICE VENDORS 
 Jostle for Corners
 Helados are a summer ritual in many of the city's Latino neighborhoods. But for the pushcart vendors, selling the treat has become a tough business, with the rainy weather and carts vying for the same turf. PAGE 6
 FARM ANIMALS IN QUEENS
 In eastern Queens, descendants of Dutch settlers began farming more than three centuries ago. Now, the place pulses again with agrarian life. Jim Dwyer, About New York. PAGE 1 
 Sports
 WHILE REHABBING, REVELING 
 In the Physics of Pitching
 The Colorado Rockies' Jeff Francis must sublimate his passion for fulcrums while he is pitching, but in the privacy of rehab, during this left-hander's lost season, he can indulge an interest in physics that will long outlive his playing career. PAGE 2 
 OLYMPIC BOARD SHIFTS
 This is a crucial time for the United States Olympic movement, and yet the board of the United States Olympic Committee is angering many by choosing this period to overhaul its top management. PAGE 1 
 Obituaries
 ANTONIO BIANCO, 57
 As one of the world's renowned diamond cutters, he worked in the diamond district of New York for more than 30 years, cutting some of the largest, rarest and most valuable stones of his time. PAGE 25 
 Arts & Leisure
 AFTER OUR 15 MINUTES
 Hollywood second acts now typically involve the immolation of the star's legacy in favor of a new fame predicated on the death of the old one. Few people know this better than the actors David Faustino and Corin Nemec. PAGE 16
 Sunday styles
 I LOVE YOU, MAN
 (As a Friend)
 The kinship between gay men and straight women is a cliche, but friendships between gay and straight men have barely registered on the pop-culture radar. This is beginning to change as America's openly gay minority becomes more visibly interwoven into society. PAGE 1
 MAKING A MARRIAGE LAST
 Despite strong social riptides working against it, the marriage bond is far stronger in 21st-century America than many may assume. PAGE 1
 A SEX TOY GOES MAINSTREAM
 More than four decades after the sexual revolution, the word vibrator still has the power to elicit blushes, despite its being as common an appliance as a toaster oven. PAGE 2
 Sunday business
 ACERS EVERYWHERE.
 How Did That Happen?
 Acer, the personal computer seller based in Taiwan, appears poised to overtake Dell as the world's second-largest seller of personal computers, which would put a real dent into one of America's favorite dorm-to-empire business stories. PAGE 1
 Digital Casting 4
 Magazine
 G.M., DETROIT AND THE FALL
 Of the Black Middle Class
 The Powell family left the South in the 1960s, seeking better opportunities up North in the auto industry. Now the life they built is in danger of slipping away. PAGE 30 
 MORE SONGS ABOUT FEELINGS
 With his new album, the soundtrack of a coming-of-age-musical he hasn't quite finished writing, Stuart Murdoch is growing up. Sort of. PAGE 24 
 My Son's Gamble 38 
 Book Review
 HOW GOD HAS MELLOWED 
 Over the Ages
 In ''The Evolution of God,'' Robert Wright tells the story of how God grew up. PAGE 1 
 Travel
 THE SOARING COSTS
 Of Car Rentals
 While the global recession has sent prices plummeting on airfares, hotels and cruises, it has had the opposite effect on rental cars. PAGE 3
 ADVENTURE IN A RAIN FOREST
 Set among the Luquillo Mountains in Puerto Rico's northeast corner, El Yunque is the only tropical rain forest in the United States' national forest system. In many respects, it provides the full jungle effect. PAGE 7
 Automobiles
 CAN FRUGAL BE FUN?
 The Tata Nano was designed to be the world's cheapest car, so should it matter whether it is any fun to drive? SPORTS, PAGE 10
 Week in Review
 SOUND OF SILENCE: 
 Culture Wars Take a Break
 The culture wars may not have ended, but on some fronts the combat has gotten rather quiet. PAGE 1FAME WILL NOT BE THE SAME
 As a matter of business and math, global fame on the level that Michael Jackson achieved is all but impossible for pop culture heroes today, and quite likely it will never be possible again. PAGE 1
 Editorial
 ON THE ROAD TO REGULATION
 The Obama administration's proposal for financial regulatory reform provides a number of sensible starting points, but it does not add up to comprehensive or transformative change. Week in Review, PAGE 7 
 MAUREEN DOWD
 A tango with morality: Another Republican falls into the trap of violating the very virtues he's preaching. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 9 
 THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
 The country that uses the recession to make its population smarter and more innovative is the one that will thrive down the road. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 8
 NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
 Apprehension is growing among many scientists that a class of chemicals called endocrine disruptors is causing a rise in deformities in humans. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 9
 FRANK RICH
 Four decades after Stonewall, American culture has become more accepting, but Washington is lagging behind. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 8
 AUDIO SLIDE SHOW Bill Cunningham of The Times visited a picnic and party on Governors Island, where the theme was the 1920s. 
 nytimes.com/fashion

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A SECRET CORNER OF GREECE: Now with improved relations between Greece and Turkey, a spotlight is shining on the northeastern region. Above, the centerpiece city of Xanthi. TRAVEL, PAGE 4 (PHOTOGRAPH BY YANNIS KOLESIDIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (92%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TALIBAN (90%); OLYMPICS (84%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (82%); ELECTIONS (78%); LITIGATION (76%); BASEBALL (75%); FOREST FIRES (71%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (70%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (70%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (70%); DRUG POLICY (68%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (67%); FIRES (66%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (66%); SUPREME COURTS (65%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (63%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (63%); DIAMOND MARKETS (61%); JEWELERS MATERIAL & LAPIDARY WORK MFG (61%)

ORGANIZATION: NEBRASKA SUPREME COURT (54%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%) LEBANON (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); GREECE (92%); ISRAEL (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); IRAN (79%); GUINEA-BISSAU (79%); TURKEY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2009



769 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1592 words

HEADLINE: Wrenching Shake-Up Of Olympic Committee

BYLINE: By KATIE THOMAS

 BODY:
This is a crucial time for the United States Olympic movement: lucrative sponsors are dropping their support, Chicago is competing with three other cities to host the 2016 Olympics, and American athletes are facing mounting competition for medals at the Vancouver Games, which are less than a year away.
 And yet the 10-member board of the United States Olympic Committee, which oversees and helps finance thousands of athletes in 45 sports, has chosen this delicate period to overhaul the top management. The abrupt changes have angered and confounded many leaders in American Olympic sports, who are especially upset that the board named one of its members as the chief executive.
 ''It kind of shook the foundation that we all thought was pretty strong,'' said Steve Penny, the president of USA Gymnastics. ''It was like a giant earthquake.'' 
 The two top positions at the committee are now held by people with little Olympic experience. The acting chief executive, Stephanie A. Streeter, had served on the committee's board since 2004. In March, the board appointed her to replace Jim Scherr, a former Olympic wrestler who had served in the position since 2003. Streeter is the former chief executive of the Banta Corporation, a printing and supply chain company.
 Last October, Larry Probst, the chairman of the video-game publisher Electronic Arts, became the U.S.O.C.'s president. He succeeded Peter Ueberroth, one of the most recognizable figures in sports, who left when his term expired. The executives in charge of sport performance, marketing and human resources were also replaced.
 ''The learning curve has been intense and dramatic,'' Streeter said. ''But honestly, it's not that much different than when you take on a new chief executive role at a major corporation. You have to be a quick study.''
 The departures of Scherr and Ueberroth, as well as of the chief of sport performance, Steve Roush, ended six years of relative stability at the organization, which had strived to rebuild its reputation after the bribery scandal before the 2002 Salt Lake City Olympics. Scherr has been credited with overseeing the committee's financial turnaround as well as presiding over the team at last year's Beijing Games that brought home 110 medals, more than any other country but second to China in gold medals. 
 But during the same period, the U.S.O.C. struggled to adapt to other challenges, like an altered sports marketing landscape in the wake of the economic crisis. Unlike its counterparts in other countries, the committee does not receive federal money and relies nearly entirely on corporate sponsors as well as a substantial share of broadcast rights revenue from the Olympic Games. A handful of major sponsors -- including General Motors, Home Depot and Kellogg -- did not renew their contracts. In March, citing the financial downturn, the U.S.O.C. laid off 54 employees, or 13 percent of its work force.
 Anita DeFrantz, a board member, said Streeter had been appointed because the board felt that her corporate experience would better guide the organization in the recession. With the Olympics occurring every two years, she said, ''there's never a time, a perfect time, to say O.K., we're going to change.'' 
 Streeter said that she has since embarked on several initiatives to strengthen the committee's financial and competitive position. Soon after taking over, she reached a temporary compromise with the International Olympic Committee over a revenue-sharing dispute that had threatened to undermine Chicago's chances of winning the 2016 Games. She also began a fund-raising campaign and awarded winter athletes an additional $1.4 million, raising overall financing 55 percent from four years ago.
 Although several of her initiatives have been applauded in Olympic circles, Streeter has drawn criticism from the leaders of the national governing bodies that oversee Olympic sports, who argue that she and the board have not been responsive.
 Skip Gilbert, the chairman of the National Governing Bodies Association, and others in Olympic sports said recent reforms in their organizations had created a cadre of sophisticated chief executives who increasingly challenged the status quo.
 ''I think in the past, the U.S.O.C. had always viewed the national governing bodies in a parent-child relationship,'' said Gilbert, who is also the chief executive of USA Triathlon. ''We were beholden to them. We did what they told us, and we never asked questions. Well, the kids have grown up.''
 The governing bodies are upset that quarterly meetings are closed to the public, and that the minutes are not posted online. Representatives of the Olympic sports have been told they can attend only every third meeting, Gilbert said. Several leaders also expressed concern over Streeter's apparent conflict of interest -- evaluating Scherr's performance was part of her previous responsibilities to the board.
 Bob Bowlsby, another board member, said ''she came in and managed some difficult circumstances very admirably.'' He also dispelled rumors that the board had given Streeter a pay raise. He declined to specify her compensation but said her salary was less than the $428,000 that Scherr earned in 2008.
 Although the governing bodies of many of the most popular sports are largely self-sufficient, many smaller sports rely heavily on money from the U.S.O.C., which bases distributions, which fluctuate from year to year, on performance and other factors. In 2007, the committee provided only 12 percent of USA Gymnastics' revenue but accounted for 56 percent of USA Canoe/Kayak's. 
 Streeter acknowledges a rocky transition. ''Change is always difficult, and it was difficult in this situation,'' she said. 
 But she disputed the argument that the governing bodies should have greater access to the board, saying she is a liaison. Streeter said she would ask the board to release its minutes if leaders of the governing bodies requested.
 Many trace the simmering unrest to 2004, when the U.S.O.C. initially reduced its board to 11 members from 125, which included representatives from each governing body. The goal was to make the board more efficient, but the leaders of several sports said their influence had been diminished. The governing bodies together nominate two candidates to the 10-member board, but the decision rests with the board's nominating and governance committee. 
 ''We have to be listened to,'' said Debbie Hesse, the president and chief executive of USA Diving. ''I really believe that the athletes and ourselves are at the heart and soul of the Olympic movement, and I think right now, there's definitely a lack of trust.'' 
 Despite their disagreements, Streeter and governing-body executives agree that a pressing challenge is attracting and retaining sponsors in a business environment that has deteriorated. The U.S.O.C. is negotiating with the longtime sponsors AT&T and Bank of America. It has also made first-time deals with Acer and Deloitte. 
 Streeter said the agreements were taking longer to complete and sponsors were asking detailed questions about receiving the best return on their investment. For years, the committee has sought ways to transform the Olympics into a year-round experience to better compete with Major League Baseball, the N.F.L. and Nascar. In 2006, the committee announced plans to start a television network devoted to Olympic sports.
 Despite initial enthusiasm, several leaders of governing bodies said they had heard little on the network's progress. In the meantime, many of their sports' international federations have sold their television rights to Universal Sports, which is owned by NBC Universal and showcasesOlympic sports.
 Streeter would say only that the network project is alive.
 ''The stories that we can tell, the depth and breadth that we can bring to the American public -- there's ample space there,'' she said.
 A silver lining, Gilbert said, is that the upheaval has unified the national governing bodies, which are exploring ways to harness their resources to attract sponsors. The national governing bodies comprise more than 13 million members: potential customers, Gilbert said, with a strong loyalty to the sports they play. The goal, he said, is to become less financially dependent on the U.S.O.C.
 Whether the change in leadership will hurt the chances of Chicago being selected as the 2016 host is debatable. Some argue that because the process is nearly complete, any discord within the United States Olympic movement will probably not affect the vote in October. But others say Streeter and Probst may put the bid at a disadvantage.
 ''Now they're at a point where it comes down to personal relationships and lobbying,'' said Robert Livingstone, the producer of the Web site GamesBids.com, which tracks the Olympic selection process. ''I think they're going to start behind the rest of the bids because they don't have those personal relationships in place.''
 Streeter said that she met several I.O.C. members at a sports conference in March and when the evaluation committee visited Chicago in April, and that the U.S.O.C. executives assigned to work on the Chicago bid had not changed. 
 As Streeter and the other executives settle into their jobs, the chiefs of several sports say they are beginning to see a gradual improvement in their relationships. Penny, the gymnastics president, said learning to work together was important.
 ''We can't dwell on what's happened,'' he said. ''We need to focus on what's ahead of us.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Stephanie A. Streeter is the U.S.O.C.'s acting chief executive.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KAREN SHERLOCK/MILWAUKEE JOURNAL SENTINEL, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)(SP8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (92%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (92%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (91%); BOARD CHANGES (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); WINTER OLYMPICS (89%); SPONSORSHIP (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); ATHLETES (78%); SPORTS BUSINESS (78%); SPORTS AWARDS (78%); SPORTS MARKETING (78%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (75%); GYMNASTICS (73%); 2010 VANCOUVER WINTER OLYMPICS (73%); WRESTLING (72%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (70%); FOOD INDUSTRY (65%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (50%); SCANDALS (50%)

COMPANY: ELECTRONIC ARTS INC (84%); R R DONNELLEY & SONS CO (82%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (90%); USA GYMNASTICS (56%)

TICKER: EA (NASDAQ) (84%); RRD (NASDAQ) (82%); GM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (84%); NAICS323120 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR PRINTING (82%); NAICS323117 BOOKS PRINTING (82%); NAICS323111 COMMERCIAL PRINTING (EXCEPT SCREEN & BOOKS) (82%); SIC2752 COMMERCIAL LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTING (82%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%) UTAH, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2009



770 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SLIPSTREAM; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 894 words

HEADLINE: Is It Time for RealNetworks to Switch Gears?

BYLINE: By BRAD STONE

 BODY:
THE technology for playing songs and video on the Internet used to be synonymous with one company: RealNetworks, founded in 1994 by a former Microsoft executive, Rob Glaser.
 Last week, Real released a new version of its flagship software, called RealPlayer SP. Like many Real products of late, the software offers some cool new features -- but not many people are likely to notice them.
 Real, based in Seattle, offers a profound example of how markedly fortunes can change in the technology business. In the field it pioneered in the 1990s, distributing and playing music and video online, the company has been largely eclipsed by rivals like Microsoft, Apple and YouTube from Google. 
 Though Real's stock price rose slightly last week upon release of the new RealPlayer, it is still down by about half since the start of 2008. And the company's market valuation of $419 million is only a little more than the $370 million in cash it has sitting in the bank.
 Discussing the company's recent fortunes, Mr. Glaser points out that 2008 was a record year of revenue for Real and that most companies are suffering in this brutal economic environment. He also said that ''the human nervous system is wired to focus on new things,'' like Twitter, and to dismiss the profitable stalwarts that have been around the block. With the new version of RealPlayer, he said, ''we have made ourselves relevant again, or even more relevant in a new world.''
 But there are some lessons to draw from the rise and, if not the fall, the stagnation of Real over the last few years. Companies can be ahead of a new technology wave but fail to catch it if they hew too closely to what made them successful in the first place.
 Another lesson is that entrepreneurs who have battles with established rivals, even if they think they are correct on the underlying issues, can end up losing out in the long run. (Just ask the founders of the original Napster.)
 We'll get to Real's storied industry battles in a bit. More significantly, the company has stuck to some of its technologies arguably for too long after the market started heading in another direction. 
 Most visibly, Real has continued to pitch RealPlayer, a separate downloadable piece of software, as a way to play online audio and video. The program can also be used for access to television shows and music. 
 But video formats that play within Web browsers, like Adobe Flash, have become much more popular, thanks largely to video sites like YouTube and Hulu. Mr. Glaser argues that having separate applications is necessary to create innovative features, like RealPlayer SP's ability to transfer video seamlessly to many portable devices, including the iPhone, the BlackBerry and Nokia phones, along with the Xbox 360.
 Mike McGuire, an analyst at Gartner, the research firm, wonders whether Real is actually meeting new consumer needs, particularly since devices like smartphones are increasingly able to directly display Web video. ''Sticking to your guns is one thing, but it's another to say, let's add features because we can, and because consumers should want this. Do we really know they do? Is anyone really asking for that?'' Mr. McGuire said.
 In music, meanwhile, Real has also placed what seems like a losing bet -- on subscription services that give people unlimited access to a broad catalog of songs for a monthly fee. 
 Its Rhapsody service has 800,000 paying members. But in this area, too, Real's vision of the future appears to have grown cloudy, although the company has recently struck some interesting deals to put the service on mobile phones. But for now, the iTunes store from Apple and music downloads in general have become the dominant way to experience music online.
 Then there are the very public, all-consuming fights Real has picked over the years. Real sued Microsoft on antitrust grounds in 2003, contending it was forcing PC makers to install its own media software, and won a $760 million settlement. 
 Two years later, Real publicly sparred with Apple over the fact that the iPod did not play music bought on other online stores. Apple shrugged off the complaint and disabled the technology, called Harmony, that Real had developed to force compatibility between its own music store and the iPod. Apple then went on to dominate the field. 
 Now Real is waging a new war. Last fall, it introduced software called RealDVD that lets people overcome Hollywood's anticopying software to make backups of the DVDs they own. Six major Hollywood studios and Real are now fighting over the technology in a federal court in Northern California. A preliminary decision from a judge is expected soon, but the case, and Real's antitrust claims against the movie studios, could drag on for years.
 Real's cause -- to let people make personal copies of movies they own -- would appeal to average people, just like the company's last crusade to sell music for the iPod. But is it a cause worth fighting for, particularly when there are more important challenges in Real's core businesses? Many shareholders and pessimistic Wall Street analysts do not think so.
 ''Having $370 million in cash is nice for a little software company,'' said Barbara Coffey, a digital media software analyst at Kaufman Brothers. ''But if you are fighting six big media companies
 at once, it's not a lovely number anymore.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rob Glaser, the founder of RealNetworks. The company's new software transfers video to iPhones and BlackBerrys, but smartphones are now playing video directly from the Web. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN P. CASEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); INTERNET VIDEO (89%); PRODUCT ENHANCEMENTS (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); INTERNET AUDIO (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); SMARTPHONES (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (60%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (90%); APPLE INC (84%); MICROSOFT CORP (58%); RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (50%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (90%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (84%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%); RIM (TSX) (50%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (90%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (84%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (84%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (84%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (84%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%) WASHINGTON, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2009



771 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; CONGRESSIONAL MEMO; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1017 words

HEADLINE: In Climate Change Bill, What May Become an Election-Year Issue

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
As Democrats strained to win over crucial holdouts on the way to narrow, party-line approval of global warming legislation, they were dogged by a critical question: Has the political climate changed since 1993?
 Veteran members of both parties vividly remember when many House Democrats, in the early months of the Clinton administration, reluctantly backed a proposed B.T.U. tax -- a new levy on each unit of energy consumed -- only to see it ignored by the Senate and seized as a campaign issue by Republicans, who took control of the House the next year.
 ''A lot of Democrat members got burnt on that vote,'' warned Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the House Republican leader, who called the climate change measure the defining vote of this, the 111th, Congress. 
 In a Congress likely to consider a health care overhaul, new ways to govern the financial sector and immigration changes after already approving a $787 billion economic stimulus, there is serious competition for the title of defining vote. 
 But the climate change measure, a high priority of President Obama and Speaker Nancy Pelosi, will no doubt be right at the top of the list. Interest groups on both sides of the issue promise to hinge their support on how lawmakers vote on the bill and actively oppose those who go the other way.
 The moment the House approved the bill, Mr. Obama took the opportunity to start increasing pressure on the Senate, where the legislation again faces tough opposition. He had already recorded and distributed the text of his weekly Saturday address, on the urgency of doing something about health care this year. But he pulled it back and substituted a message focusing on the climate victory.
 ''I want to congratulate the House for passing this bill,'' he said, ''and I want to urge the Senate to take this opportunity to come together and meet our obligations -- to our constituents, to our children, to God's creation and to future generations.''
 Leading Democrats say they are more than happy to have the energy bill serve as a signature issue. They say it represents a transformative moment -- their party's effort to take on a genuine threat to the planet. They say voters will appreciate the legislation as an overdue effort to lessen the nation's dangerous dependence on foreign oil while creating millions of new jobs in the production and distribution of cleaner energy and in energy conservation technology.
 ''The American people understand that we can no longer sweep big national problems under the rug and that we had to have an energy policy for the 21st century,'' said Representative Chris Van Hollen of Maryland, chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. 
 The two parties have dueled for months over the costs and benefits of the measure, and that debate is certain to continue into the midterm elections of November 2010. But it will mainly be a message battle because even if a climate change bill is passed and signed into law this year as Congressional Democrats and the White House hope, the practical effects will not be felt until after the election.
 Republicans obviously saw the parallels between the 1993 vote and the one Friday. As the gavel came down on their failed push to derail the bill, Republicans chanted ''B.T.U., B.T.U.'' and seemed almost in a celebratory mood.
 ''On the floor, it felt like we won,'' said Representative Tom Cole of Oklahoma, a party political strategist. ''They put a lot of guys on the line.''
 The votes were strikingly similar. In 1993, the legislation containing the Clinton energy tax was adopted on a 219-to-213 vote with 38 Democrats defecting. On Friday, the House bill was approved 219 to 212, with 44 Democrats defecting.
 In an indication of the queasiness among some Democrats, House approval came only after a determined campaign to sway wavering lawmakers. It took personal intervention by the president and vice president; members of the cabinet; the White House chief of staff, Rahm Emanuel; Ms. Pelosi; and even last-minute agreements were struck on the House floor. 
 It was a significant victory for both the president and Congressional Democrats, and it came on an issue that many expected could prove tougher than a health care overhaul. But as progress on health care legislation slowed and consumed much of the attention, Democrats were able to ease the climate change legislation forward, almost under the radar. 
 Top Democrats say they believe the victory on climate change -- setting up a tough summer debate in the Senate -- can translate to progress on other difficult issues as lawmakers see Democrats can advance even the most problematic measures.
 ''Momentum builds on momentum,'' Mr. Emanuel said.
 Still, the vote represents a significant risk. As on the economic stimulus and potentially on a health care bill, Republican votes were scarce, creating a clear contrast between the two parties. 
 And Republicans -- who last year made ''drill, baby, drill'' their slogan for more, not less, production of the fossil fuels that generate heat-trapping gases along with power, and scored some political gains before the price of oil and gasoline plunged from historic peaks -- believe that energy is an issue where they have shown the ability to get some traction. 
 They also intend to pound home the prospect that the legislation could put the United States at a competitive disadvantage and drive more jobs overseas.
 But Democrats view the measure as a singular achievement, with Representative Edward J. Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts and one of its authors, comparing it to a combination of the Apollo Project and the Civil Rights Act.
 Representative Steny H. Hoyer, Democrat of Maryland and the majority leader, said that he believed the political impact of the B.T.U. tax had been exaggerated and that he expected no serious fallout over the new measure. Also, many of the most vulnerable Democrats voted against the measure.
 ''Mark this day, June 26, 2009,'' Mr. Hoyer intoned on the floor just before passage of the climate bill.
 No doubt both parties already have.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); APPROVALS (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (76%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (76%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); JOB CREATION (73%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (71%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (68%); IMMIGRATION (67%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); CHRIS VAN HOLLEN (57%); JOHN BOEHNER (57%); NANCY PELOSI (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2009



772 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2581 words

HEADLINE: The Future Is Theirs

BYLINE: By LIZETTE ALVAREZ

 BODY:
CALL them members of the Obama generation: Seven of New York City's valedictorians, invited to discuss the future -- theirs, the city's, the world's -- could not help circling back to themes resonant from President Obama's historic campaign: diversity, globalization, cooperation, hope. 
 ''We're that high school class that was there when Obama got elected and that's going to be there forever,'' said Christian Monsalve, who was chosen by his classmates at Regis High School, one of the city's most prestigious Catholic schools, to give the commencement address. ''Who knows what, in the next 5, 10 years, what's going to happen. We're going to be that class that's going to make that history.''
 Before tossing their mortarboards into the air, all graduating seniors are spoon-fed equal parts inspiration and responsibility. But for the class of 2009, laying claim to The Future can be a disquieting proposition. 
 Unemployment is discouragingly high. Wall Street is downsizing. Icecaps are melting. America remains at war. And politicians are still feuding -- or in New York State's case, locking one another out of rooms. 
 Yet, these best and brightest flip all this negativity into opportunity: to cure, to defend, to counsel, to heal, even to make a buck. ''It's not like we'll be in recession for the rest of our lives, until we die,'' noted Jenae Williams, the valedictorian at the Celia Cruz Bronx High School of Music. 
 A few expressed skepticism that profound change was possible in the short term. But more often they spoke of uniting, rather than dividing, reshuffling priorities instead of belaboring past mistakes.
 These seven valedictorians -- the five from public schools ranked highest in their class; Mr. Monsalve and Adrienne Edwards of the elite Spence School were selected to give the valedictory -- are a tableau of American ideals. Four are from immigrant families -- Uzbekistan by way of Armenia, Colombia, the Dominican Republican and Lebanon. Their parents include an elevator mechanic, two hotel banquet servers and a limousine driver, along with the chairman of the neurology department at Mount Sinai Medical Center. They speak Spanish, French, Russian, Arabic, a little Hebrew.
 Like all good New Yorkers, they bemoan the subway system, the hordes and the city's willful indifference to personal boundaries. 
 This summer, some are working to pay for college and some are sleeping off high school as they prepare to live their next chapter.
 ''For our entire lives someone or somebody or some entity somewhere has been controlling what we do,'' Ms. Edwards said. ''I can't imagine how liberating it's going to be.''
 The Students
 KRISTINA ARAKELYAN
 LIVES IN Bensonhurst, Brooklyn 
 COMING FROM Midwood High, 705 seniors 
 GOING TO Harvard 
 HOPES TO study philosophy and literature 
 SAT SCORE 2070 
 A self-declared pessimist, Kristina was editor of the school literary magazine and opted out of gym after she hit the teacher on the head with a basketball. She arrived in New York from Uzbekistan with her Armenian parents at age 6, and imagines herself someday living in a ''little house with the white picket fence kind of thing.''
 ADRIENNE EDWARDS
 LIVES IN St. Albans, Queens
 COMING FROM Spence School, 49 seniors 
 GOING TO University of Pennsylvania 
 HOPES TO be a litigator 
 SAT SCORE 2160 
 Outspoken and assertive, Adrienne commuted 90 minutes by bus and train to Spence, where she enrolled in 7th grade and was head of the hip-hop dance group and the multicultural awareness club. ''I don't think I'll be able to function at my highest anywhere else but New York because I've met all my challenges and had all of my progressions here.''
 CHRISTIAN MONSALVE
 LIVES IN Bogota, N.J. 
 COMING FROM Regis High School, 134 seniors 
 GOING TO Fordham 
 HOPES TO work in economic development in Latin America 
 SAT SCORE 2030 
 Christian is the kind of boy that makes every mother's heart skip a beat: curious, outgoing, confident, caring. He loves to dance salsa -- ''It's like my passion'' -- and is enamored of his parents' native country, Colombia, as well as travel generally. He has a ''baby sister'' -- she is 16 -- who is ''like my best friend. I love her.''
 MUHAMMAD SAFA
 LIVES IN Bay Ridge, Brooklyn 
 COMING FROM High School of Telecommunications Arts and Technology, class of 282 seniors 
 GOING TO Fordham 
 HOPES TO become a doctor 
 SAT SCORE 1850
 Muhammad, a fraternal twin, has ranked first in his class since freshman year, and has volunteered at a hospital, doctors' offices and a program to help people with developmental disabilities. Flashing a rebel streak, he shrugged off many questions. He dislikes imposing his views on the world: ''I never make generalized opinions.''
 JORDANO SANCHEZ
 LIVES IN Corona, Queens 
 COMING FROM Townsend Harris High, 251 seniors 
 GOING TO Yale 
 HOPES TO develop a breakthrough in pathology 
 SAT SCORE 2250 
 Sweet and self-assured, Jordano said he led a ''sheltered'' life and was not allowed to venture into Manhattan until 10th grade; his father drives him to school. ''I don't know if they're exceptionally paranoid or something like that, but they're just very protective of me. They know they can trust me, but they can't trust people that they don't know.''
 ADAM SEALFON
 LIVES IN Brooklyn Heights 
 COMING FROM Stuyvesant, 791 seniors 
 GOING TO Harvard 
 HOPES TO do theoretical science/math research 
 SAT SCORE 2400 
 Home-schooled through eighth grade, Adam met President Obama this year as one of 40 finalists in the Intel Science Talent Search contest. On Stuyvesant's awards day, Adam received 13 prizes and an overwhelming ovation. He plays piano, soccer and ultimate Frisbee. His favorite painting at the Met: '' 'The Death of Socrates' by Jacques-Louis David. I really like Neo-Classicism.''
 JENAE WILLIAMS
 LIVES IN Soundview section of the Bronx
 COMING FROM Celia Cruz Bronx High School of Music, 62 seniors 
 GOING TO Southeastern University, Lakeland, Fla. 
 HOPES TO become a marriage counselor 
 SAT SCORE 1700 
 Jenae, a percussionist, has Type 1 diabetes, and her parents' divorce shaped her aspirations. ''If I could help at least one family, especially a family that has a child, especially that age or even younger, to not have to go through what I went through for those years, and even now, I will think I have really succeeded.''
 Excerpts from the Conversation
 President Obama became an almost immediate topic as the valedictorians chatted around a conference table in The New York Times Building this month. 
 ADAM If people think Obama can do things, then they're going to work harder. The amazing thing about Obama is how well he was able to, during the campaign, to mobilize enormous numbers of people.
 ADRIENNE I definitely think we're turning toward a more working-together kind of society.
 ADAM I think he's exciting and inspiring.
 KRISTINA I think our generation is really hyping things up. I mean, I understand that with Obama there's a lot of change, but I really think we're putting so many unrealistic expectations onto him. He doesn't have a magic wand, he can't just tear away all the problems, but that's what we're expecting and people are just going crazy and it's just not fair -- it's just not fair to him, and it's just not fair to us. All this change, and everyone keeps saying change, change, but it's not really change. It's a slow progression, maybe, toward change, but we're just expecting too much.
 ADRIENNE I think he's kind of more symbolic in nature, kind of on a world scale. I don't think we should expect Obama to wave a magic wand and fix everything, no. That's not what I meant when I said ''change.'' I think people are starting to think differently about things.
 JENAE He could do two things: He could live up to the expectation or he can crumble.
 CHRISTIAN Expectation isn't a bad thing, because from expectations comes action. Expectations are hope, and that's a beautiful thing. 
 Asked what one thing they would change about New York City, Kristina immediately answered: the school system. The others chimed in.
 KRISTINA From the bottom up. I think if you really want to get anywhere in the school system you have to really work hard, or get out. You have 35 kids in a classroom. Even the best teacher in the world couldn't possibly handle giving the attention to each child that he or she deserves. You're not really pushed, because in order to look better they stupefy the curriculum and they stupefy the Regents exam. I took the physics Regent last year, and I didn't even have to study and I got 100.
 ADAM I definitely agree that the curriculum has been watered down a lot. I mean, for instance, in mathematics, in eastern Europe, they learn what we learn several years earlier. And it doesn't really work to have a lot of standardized tests, because first of all the ones that they have are pretty -- there's not a lot of content to them. You're now getting teachers that teach to the exam instead of teaching the material. So, like, you learn how to fill in bubbles on a multiple-choice exam, instead of learning how to appreciate and understand physics or whatever.
 JENAE I think certain teachers in my school definitely have prepared me more than I actually wanted to be prepared, but the bad thing was that I didn't get those teachers until junior, senior year. Some things some teachers have done like passing kids because they have to get out, and not actually helping them, it makes me feel kind of bad.
 ADRIENNE When I first got to private school, I was amazed I could write in the books. In public school, it was a major rule that you could not write in the books because somebody else had to use them. And I think that's a good mentality, sharing, but it's kind of like being able to take control of your education: This is my book, my class, this is my experience, I need to learn this. 
 CHRISTIAN There's one thing that schools should dedicate more time to: self-esteem and confidence. They never taught me, for example, the motivation stuff in schools, it was something I picked up outside of school, in books. When I started doing that stuff, a bunch of new stuff started opening up for me.
 Some of the students had already delivered their valedictory speeches (excerpts are at nytimes.com/nyregion). Some were still mulling.
 ADRIENNE I quoted Asher Roth, and I said, ''Do something crazy,'' and I meant more, like, break barriers and think unconventionally and move away from your comfort zone and do something crazy.
 CHRISTIAN I made people laugh, also made the moms cry, even some dads, too. I told them about the importance of happiness and I talked about, you know, I think you guys can all have happiness if you first have humility. Because that's what our school taught us: faith in yourself, and faith in God. I told them that if you believe in yourself, then no one can deny you your dreams. That if you trust yourself, you can do whatever you want. So that was the message I left them. 
 JENAE At first I was so excited, then I realized I would have to deliver a speech, and it scared me. And I went to Google, and Google didn't help at all. And then I talked about my next resource, that wasn't Google, it was my friends, and that they didn't help at all because they gave, like, so many different answers. They were like: ''Make it short!'' ''Make me cry!'' ''Make me laugh!'' ''Don't make cliches!'' And they were all like, ''If you don't do this, I'm going to boo you off the stage.'' I was so frustrated.
 JORDANO I don't think I could have come as far as I've come without all the help that I've received from not only my teachers and the faculty members, but my fellow classmates, so I wanted to leave them with that message: that there's so much we can do together. There's so much more we can accomplish if we work together rather than work independently. I quoted something judge nominee Sonia Sotomayor said, which I actually read in a New York Times article: ''I can and do aspire to be greater than the sum total of my experiences, but I accept my limitations.'' And the purpose of using that quotation was to show that we all have our limitations, but we have less of those limitations now than we had four years ago, and even more as we continue to gain knowledge and mature.
 MUHAMMAD I didn't start yet. I was reading a few speeches, one by Steve Jobs, and he wrote a speech in 2006 and it was about death. I mean, it was a good speech, like, really good, like very intriguing and such. But it was just about death, the overall thing, so I don't know.
 KRISTINA I have a pretty pessimistic view on life in general. It's not about death, but I basically said that whatever we may accomplish, we're all going to make mistakes, and the important thing is to try to fix them, and if you can't, you can't. But the important thing is to never cross your morals. I think that, in general, human morality is deteriorating, because people are willing to do anything to get what they want. And I think that at the end, when you're looking at life 70 years from now, that's one of the things you're definitely going to regret.
 ADAM Well, all my friends have told me, ''Just make it funny,'' because there are going to be a bunch of other speakers who are going to go for, like, the serious moral message, but just as long as it's funny, everyone's going to like it. And I was thinking, like, the one way to make sure that your speech is not funny is to try to make it funny.
 We asked their favorite New York City spots.
 JENAE Down on 14th Street, or Astor Place, there's this restaurant called Bamn and I love that restaurant. It's an automated restaurant where you go in, you've got to get $2 in coins, put the $2 in, pull down the little lever and get your food. And I'm just, like, that's amazing, I love it. Because when I'm downtown in the Village, I don't really want to stop and eat, and I'm just like, 'Let's just do Bamn, let's just go put $2 in and get some curly fries and keep going.
 KRISTINA Herald Square. Because they have the Mrs. Fields store and they have the pretzel cart, and they have all those shopping malls, so it's a full day right there.
 CHRISTIAN I like the bike path on the West Side Highway, like on the Upper West Side/Washington Heights area, because, like, I can see Jersey. And the bridge, and its like a family recreational area.
 MUHAMMADThe Brooklyn Bridge, because I first walked there when I was, like, in seventh grade, and ever since I've walked down there -- I don't want to say countless times, but at least, like, 20 or 30 times with my family. And we always take pictures by that little thing with the plaque where they say who built it or whatever, and we just stand in front of it and see the ocean and stuff. Or in Brooklyn there's this place called Shore Road, and I know that's, like, dirty or whatever, because my uncle and I would go fishing and all the fish would be already dead, or, like, mutated or whatever. 
 JORDANOTerrace on the Park in Flushing Meadow Park, and I went to the highest point on that building, and I was able to see a view of the entire city, which was a breathtaking sight.
 What is one word that best sums up how you're feeling at this moment -- about to graduate from high school and embark on the rest of your lives?
 CHRISTIAN Motivated.
 ADRIENNE Oh, you stole mine!
 JORDANO Anxious.
 JENAE Ready.
 ADAM Hopeful.
 KRISTINA Unsure.
 ADRIENNE Driven.
 MUHAMMAD Finally? 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: TOP SCHOLARS: From left, Jenae Williams, Jordano Sanchez, Adam Sealfon, Kristina Arakelyan, Christian Monsalve, Adrienne Edwards and Muhammad Safa on Grand Avenue in Brooklyn.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BEATRICE DE GEA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(MB1)
PHOTO
 COMMON GROUND: The valedictorians come from a variety of backgrounds, but they all bemoan the city's subway system.(MB6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); CLASS RANKING (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (70%); RECESSION (67%); NEUROSCIENCE (60%); RANKINGS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); UZBEKISTAN (79%); LEBANON (79%); COLOMBIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2009



773 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: Invent, Invent, Invent

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
I was at a conference in St. Petersburg, Russia, a few weeks ago and interviewed Craig Barrett, the former chairman of Intel, about how America should get out of its current economic crisis. His first proposal was this: Any American kid who wants to get a driver's license has to finish high school. No diploma -- no license. Hey, why would we want to put a kid who can barely add, read or write behind the wheel of a car?
 Now what does that have to do with pulling us out of the Great Recession? A lot. Historically, recessions have been a time when new companies, like Microsoft, get born, and good companies separate themselves from their competition. It makes sense. When times are tight, people look for new, less expensive ways to do old things. Necessity breeds invention. 
 Therefore, the country that uses this crisis to make its population smarter and more innovative -- and endows its people with more tools and basic research to invent new goods and services -- is the one that will not just survive but thrive down the road. 
 We might be able to stimulate our way back to stability, but we can only invent our way back to prosperity. We need everyone at every level to get smarter. 
 I still believe that America, with its unrivaled freedoms, venture capital industry, research universities and openness to new immigrants has the best assets to be taking advantage of this moment -- to out-innovate our competition. But we should be pressing these advantages to the max right now.
 Russia, it seems to me, is clearly wasting this crisis. Oil prices rebounded from $30 to $70 a barrel too quickly, so the pressure for Russia to really reform and diversify its economy is off. The struggle for Russia's post-Communist economic soul -- whether it is going to be more OPEC than O.E.C.D., a country that derives more of its wealth from drilling its mines than from tapping its minds -- seems to be over for now.
 At the St. Petersburg exposition center, showing off the Russian economy, the two biggest display booths belonged to Gazprom, the state-controlled oil and gas company, and Sberbank, Russia's largest state-owned bank. Russian companies that actually made things that the world wanted were virtually nonexistent: Two-thirds of Russia's exports today are oil and gas. Gazprom makes the money, and Sberbank lends it out.
 As one Western banker put it, when oil is $35 a barrel, Russia ''has no choice'' but to reform, to diversify its economy and to put in place the rule of law and incentives that would really stimulate small business. But at $70 a barrel, it takes an act of enormous ''political will,'' which the petro-old K.G.B. alliance that dominates the Kremlin today is unlikely to summon. Too much rule of law and transparency would constrict the ruling clique's own freedom of maneuver.
 China is also courting trouble. Recently -- in the name of censoring pornography -- China blocked access to Google and demanded that computers sold in China come supplied with an Internet nanny filter called Green Dam Youth Escort, starting July 1. Green Dam can also be used to block politics, not just Playboy. Once you start censoring the Web, you restrict the ability to imagine and innovate. You are telling young Chinese that if they really want to explore, they need to go abroad.
 We should be taking advantage. Now is when we should be stapling a green card to the diploma of any foreign student who earns an advanced degree at any U.S. university, and we should be ending all H-1B visa restrictions on knowledge workers who want to come here. They would invent many more jobs than they would supplant. The world's best brains are on sale. Let's buy more!
 Barrett argues that we should also use this crisis to: 1) require every state to benchmark their education standards against the best in the world, not the state next door; 2) double the budgets for basic scientific research at the National Science Foundation, the Department of Energy and the National Institute of Standards and Technology; 3) lower the corporate tax rate; 4) revamp Sarbanes-Oxley so that it is easier to start a small business; 5) find a cost-effective way to extend health care to every American.
 We need to do all we can now to get more brains connected to more capital to spawn more new companies faster. As Jeff Immelt, the chief of General Electric, put it in a speech on Friday, this moment is ''an opportunity to turn financial adversity into national advantage, to launch innovations of lasting value to our country.''
 Sometimes, I worry, though, that what oil money is to Russia, our ability to print money is to America. Look at the billions we just printed to bail out two dinosaurs: General Motors and Chrysler. 
 Lately, there has been way too much talk about minting dollars and too little about minting our next Thomas Edison, Bob Noyce, Steve Jobs, Bill Gates, Vint Cerf, Jerry Yang, Marc Andreessen, Sergey Brin, Bill Joy and Larry Page. Adding to that list is the only stimulus that matters. Otherwise, we're just Russia with a printing press. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (85%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (85%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); TRADE SHOWS (78%); CARTELS (74%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); DRIVERS LICENSES (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (69%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (68%); OIL & GAS PRICES (68%); VENTURE CAPITAL (65%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (50%)

COMPANY: SBERBANK ROSSII OAO (81%); OAO GAZPROM (64%); INTEL CORP (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%)

TICKER: SBER (RTS) (81%); SBER (LSE) (81%); OGZD (LSE) (64%); GAZP (RTS) (64%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (81%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (81%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (81%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (81%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (64%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (64%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (64%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (64%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (64%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (64%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2009



774 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 700 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Plans New Course for Antidrug Efforts in Afghanistan

BYLINE: By RACHEL DONADIO; Ruhullah Khapalwak contributed reporting from Kabul, Afghanistan.

DATELINE: ROME 

 BODY:
The Obama administration's special representative for Afghanistan and Pakistan told allies on Saturday that the United States was shifting its drug policy in Afghanistan away from eradicating opium poppy fields and toward interdicting drug supplies and cultivating alternative crops.
 ''The Western policies against the opium crop, the poppy crop, have been a failure,'' the representative, Richard C. Holbrooke, told reporters on the margins of the Group of 8 conference in the northern Italian city of Trieste, Reuters reported. ''They did not result in any damage to the Taliban, but they put farmers out of work and they alienated people and drove people into the arms of the Taliban.'' 
 Mr. Holbrooke said the United States would begin phasing out eradication efforts, which generally have involved spraying or plowing under poppy fields, often under fire from Taliban militants or angry farmers. Instead, he said, more emphasis would be placed on helping Afghan farmers make a living through other crops and on seizing both drugs coming out of the country and growing and processing supplies coming in.
 The Bush administration had put steady pressure on President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan to step up eradication efforts, arguing that defeating the Taliban would require depriving it of drug revenue. But in recent years, some American diplomats have argued that eradication was costly and difficult to carry out. And Mr. Karzai had resisted those efforts, arguing that crop substitution and foreign aid to stimulate the economy would be more effective. 
 Mr. Holbrooke said Saturday that the United States had ''wasted hundreds and hundreds of millions of dollars'' on the eradication program. ''The poppy farmer is not our enemy. The Taliban are,'' he was reported as saying. 
 The Afghan minister of counternarcotics, Gen. Khodaidad, who uses just one name, said Saturday that Mr. Karzai and the Afghan government wanted to see the details of the policy shift before commenting fully.
 ''We are still waiting to see what kind of changes they have made in the new policy,'' General Khodaidad said. ''If the strategy is not in accord with Afghan culture and tradition, any such changes would have no real effect.''
 Foreign Minister Franco Frattini of Italy said Saturday that he and the other leaders at the Group of 8 meeting ''strongly appreciated'' the new United States policy, a spokesman for Mr. Frattini said. 
 And Antonio Maria Costa, the head of the United Nations Office of Drugs and Crime, praised the shift, calling eradication efforts ''a sad joke'' -- sad because so many Afghan security forces had been killed in the efforts, though only ''about 3 percent of the volume'' had been eradicated, Reuters said. 
 Mr. Holbrooke's comments on Saturday were a continuation of a discussion in Washington in recent months over policies toward Afghanistan. 
 Last week, in remarks to Congress, Mr. Holbrooke said the United States was ''downgrading crop eradication'' and shifting resources toward ''interdiction, rule of law, going after the big guys and -- and those involved people in the government,'' he told the House Oversight Committee, according to a transcript of the hearing. 
 He said that drugs were ''an important, but not the primary source of funding'' for the Taliban. ''They get a lot more money out of the gulf, according to our intelligence sources,'' he added, referring to donors living in Persian Gulf countries. 
 Afghanistan supplies more than 90 percent of the world's heroin, and the drug trade is estimated to account for about half of Afghanistan's economy. The United Nations estimates that in 2007, the Taliban made as much as $300 million from the opium trade. 
 Vanda Felbab-Brown, a fellow at the Brookings Institution and an expert on counternarcotics, called the administration's shift away from eradication and toward stimulating the rural economy ''courageous'' and ''absolutely right.'' 
 But she added that it was imperative for the United States ''to set the right expectations,'' and make it clear that it was unlikely that the new policy ''will result in a substantial reduction of cultivation or on the dependence on the illegal economy.''

CORRECTION-DATE: July 5, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about a shift in the Obama administration's drug policy in Afghanistan, away from eradicating poppy fields and toward interdicting drug supplies and cultivating alternative crops, misstated a reaction to the policy change by Vanda Felbab-Brown, a counternarcotics expert reached for comment at the Brookings Institution. She said it was important for the administration to make clear that its new policy would take time to produce substantial improvements -- not that any improvements were unlikely.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRUG POLICY (91%); OPIUM (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALIBAN (90%); DRUG INTERDICTION (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (87%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (87%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (71%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (57%)

PERSON: RICHARD HOLBROOKE (79%); HAMAD KARZAI (78%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); FRANCO FRATTINI (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ROME, ITALY (77%) UNITED STATES (97%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); PAKISTAN (92%); ITALY (77%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2009



775 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1250 words

HEADLINE: Power Plays: Repression 101

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
-- When the rallying cry on the streets of Tehran turned from ''Death to America!'' to the stranger-sounding ''Death to the Dictator!'' there was a great temptation to conclude that the days of the mullahs were numbered. 
 Maybe they are and maybe not; as President Obama said on Tuesday, ''we don't know yet how this thing is going to play out.'' But inside Mr. Obama's National Security Council, and around the world, versions of the same question were being asked: Will the resort to raw repression work? Or will it eventually backfire, only widening the huge political breach that the election laid bare? 
 The history of repression to save regimes -- or at least their leaders -- is long. And every case is different: Some regimes are brittle in the face of popular pressure while others are supple in adapting to it; some can use nationalism as their trump card, while for others, it is an Achilles' heel. And if some regimes are simple tyrannies, the structure of Iran's political system is especially complex and opaque. 
 Still, a common thread is clear: It is the security services on which the regime's fate ultimately hinges. If they decide their best interests lie with the powers that they have protected, and that have protected them, they will stick it out. If they decide they are more likely to prosper under new leadership, power can collapse at the speed of a show trial. 
 There are a lot of gradations along that scale.
 Twenty years ago this month, many inside and outside of China who witnessed Tiananmen Square confidently predicted the beginning of the end for the Communist Party. They were wrong. Two decades later the party itself has changed radically enough -- tossing aside its revolutionary ideology and replacing it with a social compact built on stupendous annual economic growth -- that it remains secure, with its grip on power as solid as ever. 
 How has it done that? Over the past two decades, the Chinese Communist Party has allowed some local elections, tolerated some protests over pollution or corruption (as long as they did not cut deeply at the powers of the national leadership), and allowed greater freedom to travel abroad and surf the Internet (with some strict limits). And the educated, rising classes accepted the unwritten rules: You can enjoy your rising expectations, but don't challenge the party's authority.
 Meanwhile, the military has reaped spoils; not only is it being modernized, but today its financial enterprises are a large part of China's rising economy. 
 It is an example that the Iranians have, presumably, watched carefully, if only in this sense: their Revolutionary Guard, too, has grown in standing and financial clout in recent years. 
 Reach back a bit further in history, though, to the Solidarity uprisings in Poland in the early 1980s, and the lesson is different. There, at first, repression also worked. The security forces, part of the Warsaw Pact, were called on to enforce martial law and remained loyal to a government firmly in the Soviet Union's orbit. But over a decade's time the regime's hold on power -- and on the soldiers' loyalties -- eroded as union workers, intellectuals, a pope and eventually even the security forces lost all confidence in a government that they viewed as illegitimate.
 Part of the reason the regime proved vulnerable was that Poles themselves saw it as a foreign implant. So when the Soviet Union began to fall apart, the security forces recognized that their own patron was heading for the rocks. They made a strategic (some might say survival) decision to back whatever government the people chose. 
 That was the beginning of a swift end. But the model doesn't really fit Iran. The mullahs may be many things -- fundamentalist, intolerant, even vote fixers -- but their trump card is that they are Iranian to core, and that their own revolution 30 years ago ejected an autocrat whose chief supporter abroad was the United States. 
 The examples do not stop there: Burma's brutal junta, which rewards a loyal, if corrupt, military even as the general economy withers, has resisted a democracy movement's protests for three decades; North Korea's all-powerful military has never let protests fester at all, even as it pursues nuclear weaponry while the population goes hungry. On the other hand, in Indonesia and Nicaragua, the first cracks in dictatorships quickly shattered myths of impregnable control.
 Nicaragua's case, in the 1970s, was a lesson in the price of losing core supporters. The Somoza dynasty had weathered rebellions before, but made a crucial mistake when it squandered foreign aid sent to help the shattered economy rebuild after a 1972 earthquake. That, combined with its brutality, alienated important middle-class leaders, who made common cause with the leftist Sandinistas as the United States slashed military aid. By 1979, the rebels had beaten the army. 
 Experts say that case may offer little parallel to Iran, whose economy is insulated whenever oil prices rise and whose populist president can appeal to the masses even when the elite grumble about the cost of Western sanctions. 
 South Korea's experience was different still, but also limited as a parallel to Iran. Its generals, who had run an authoritarian government during the cold war, were persuaded that they would not lose all their power in a democracy; that became the key to establishing one in the late 1980s. 
 ''It's too early to draw any conclusions about which model fits in Iran,'' said Zbigniew Brzezinski, who was born in Warsaw and had the thankless task, as Jimmy Carter's national security adviser, of trying to establish relations with the leaders of Iran's revolution in 1979. ''But in this case, I have to say I'm pessimistic in the short term, and optimistic in the long term.''
 That pretty well captures the mood of Mr. Obama's advisers. In background conversations last week, several cautioned that it was not clear what the Iranians had in mind. ''The students in Tiananmen wanted real democracy, the Poles wanted regime change, but the Iranians might be looking for something in between,'' one of Mr. Obama's top advisers said. ''But the more the supreme leader cracks down, the more radicalized the opposition may become.''
 Robert Litwak, the author of ''Regime Change,'' a study of how modern regimes have fallen, said last week: ''The truth here is that a soft landing for Iranian society is not a soft landing for the leadership.'' So far, he observed last week, ''the Iranians are not as sufficiently united against the regime as the Poles were in the late '80s.'' Moreover, the Polish regime was more fragile: Because it was considered a Soviet tool, the opposition could play to nationalist emotions. 
 Not so in Iran. The clerics may be repressive hardliners, but they are authentically Iranian. And so far, the Revolutionary Guard seems completely on the side of the supreme leader and President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. 
 That will be hard to shake. Mr. Ahmadinejad's rise to power was in part because of Guard support, and he has since rewarded it handsomely. The Revolutionary Guard runs Iran's nuclear program; if the opposition gains power, the Guard has to wonder what it might negotiate away. And outside agencies estimate that Iran could become able to assemble a nuclear weapon between 2010 and 2015. 
 As one of Mr. Obama's aides said the other day, ''for the leadership, that suggests the next five years are no time to be messing with the formula.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: TO THE STREETS: A man protesting Iran's election results tries to shield himself from tear gas. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALI SAFARI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (pg.WK1)
 HALT: Myanmar, 2007. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REUTERS) (pg.WK4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); EMERGING MARKETS (68%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (61%); CORRUPTION (60%); RELIGION (57%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (88%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN (88%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2009



776 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1476 words

HEADLINE: Marriage Stands Up for Itself

BYLINE: By BENEDICT CAREY and TARA PARKER-POPE

 BODY:
THEY'RE done. Toast. The governor needs his head checked. His wife needs to launch his clothes from the bedroom window. Time for those two to get in line behind that ''Jon & Kate Plus 8'' couple and call this charade off. 
 The speculation over the future of the marriage of Mark Sanford, the South Carolina governor, after his recently disclosed affair is likely to die off well before the family's pain. So, too, will the unsolicited lectures -- about his hypocrisy, about her obligations, about the dire state of marriage in general. 
 Yet if recent research is any guide, the marriage itself has a chance to outlast all of it, the public leer and the private sting, by many years. 
 Despite strong social riptides working against it -- the liberalization of divorce laws, the vanishing stigma of divorce, the continual online temptations of social sites like MySpace or Facebook -- the marriage bond is far stronger in 21st-century America than many may assume. Infidelity is one of the most common reasons cited by people who divorce. But surveys find the majority of people who discover a cheating spouse remain married to that person for years afterward. Many millions more shrug off, or work through, strong suspicions or evidence of infidelity. And recent trends in marriage suggest that the institution itself has become more resilient in recent years, not less so.
 ''Every marriage has many, many more dimensions to it than faithfulness,'' said Betsey Stevenson, an assistant professor of business and public policy at the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania who studies marriage and divorce trends. ''We don't see the other sacrifices or other betrayals of promises. I wonder if faithfulness really is a litmus test in marriages, or if it just becomes a litmus test in the media because that's the one betrayal we hear about in these celebrity relationships.''
 Historically, the institution of marriage has not succumbed to infidelity so much as coexisted with it, like a body does with the flu virus: weakening at times, yet developing some immunity from long exposure. Anthropologists have found patterns of infidelity in diverse communities around the world, just as historians and novelists have. Many men and women, and most visibly men, have long been ''publicly monogamous and hidden their affairs,'' as the anthropologist and writer Helen Fisher of Rutgers University has said.
 Temptation stalks even close marriages, as researchers have had no trouble documenting it. In one survey, psychologists at the University of Vermont asked 349 men and women in committed relationships about sexual fantasies. Fully 98 percent of the men and 80 percent of the women reported having imagined a sexual encounter with someone other than their partner at least once in the previous two months. The longer couples were together, the more likely both partners were to report such fantasies.
 In another study, psychologists at the University of Washington and the University of North Carolina reported that married men and women who called their relationship with their spouse ''pretty happy'' were twice as likely to cheat as those who said their relationship was ''very happy.'' But perhaps the strongest risk factor for infidelity, researchers have found, exists not inside the marriage but outside: opportunity.
 ''People tend to assume that bad people have affairs, and good people don't, or that affairs only happen in bad marriages,'' said Peggy Vaughan, a San Diego-based researcher who runs the Web site dearpeggy.com, and author of a forthcoming book on infidelity and marriage, ''To Have and to Hold.'' ''These assumptions are just not based in reality.''
 In any given year, about 10 percent of married people say they have had sex outside their marriage. These numbers say nothing about whether the affairs were discovered; but researchers have surveyed couples in which they were. In one survey, among 1,084 people whose spouses had affairs, Ms. Vaughan found that 76 percent of both men and women were still married and living with that spouse years later. Similar surveys have found rates of about two-thirds and higher. 
 Such surveys say little about the private hurt and struggle that couples live with in the months and years after a discovered betrayal. A good deal of these couples limp along, laboring to repair the severed trust -- and the dynamic between the couple changes forever, as millions can attest.
 But the investment in a marriage lasting more than a few years usually includes more than fidelity. Spouses share history and goals, children and strong bonds to friends and community. And there is some reason to believe that in recent years, such deeply integrated marriages have become more prevalent. 
 For instance, one of the most commonly cited statistics about marriage is that half of marriages end in divorce. But that number reflects the expected lifetime divorce rate of people married in the 1970s. 
 The story is different for more-recently married couples. A comparison of 10-year divorce rates among college-educated men married in the 1970s, 1980s and 1990s shows that divorce is becoming less common, said Dr. Stevenson, the Wharton researcher. Among men who married in the 1970s, for example, about 23 percent had divorced by the 10th year of marriage. Among similar men married in the 1980s, about 20 percent had divorced by the 10th year. Men married in the 1990s are doing even better -- with a 10-year divorce rate of 16 percent.
 Divorce rates among those with only a high school education are higher, but even among this group, divorce is becoming less common. Among male high school graduates married in the 1970s and 1980s, about 25 percent had divorced by the 10th year. But among high school graduates married in 1990, the 10-year divorce rate is 19 percent.
 The reason for these shifts, some experts say, is that many couples today are delaying marriage. And age matters. People who marry after age 25 are less likely to divorce than those who marry earlier, studies find. Men and women born in the 1930s who married in the 1950s have the highest marriage rate of any generation -- about 96 percent married. But among more recent generations, the number has dropped to about 90 percent. The data suggest that the weakest relationships, which years ago might have resulted in a marriage followed by a divorce, are now ending before the couple ever heads to the altar. 
 In short, marriages appear to be stronger from the beginning. ''We have more selection pressure for stronger relationships,'' Dr. Stevenson said. ''That's part of why the divorce rate has declined. Some of the weaker relationships are washing out before marriage.''
 Some of the same social changes that have unsettled traditional 1950s-era marriages have seemingly deepened them in the 1990s and 2000s. Today women are contributing more financially to relationships than earlier generations, and men are contributing more to the domestic duties. Compared with earlier generations, men and women today are more likely to marry someone like themselves, with a similar educational background, experts say. The relationship is less about dividing economic and domestic duties and more about shared interests and mutual happiness.
 ''It might be that those types of matches, people who are more kindred spirits, are more able to weather a small storm,'' Dr. Stevenson said. ''You just have so much in common, you have so much invested together. A blip is just that, a blip, and it becomes easier to get over.''
 The culture itself has also become more clear-eyed about the costs of divorce, despite and because of its frequency. Most social scientists today, no matter their political persuasion, agree that divorce, while sometimes necessary, financially drains families and is often tough on children. Many therapists now counsel couples coping with infidelity not to act rashly, to work on reconciliation for at least six months -- divorce, almost always, is for good.
 ''It used to be that marriage therapists were trained to be neutral about marriage, to try to find what made the individuals happy,'' said Diane Sollee, founder of smartmarriages.com, a clearinghouse for information, and the former director of professional education for the American Association for Marriage and Family Therapy. ''Now, more therapists consider themselves, first and foremost, a representative for the marriage.''
 And it's worth nothing that most couples who have been publicly humiliated -- the Clintons, the Spitzers, the Edwardses -- have so far stayed together. 
 In a statement last week, Jenny Sanford, Governor Sanford's wife, said that she had recently asked her husband to leave the house after discovering the affair. She also said that she still believes their relationship can be repaired.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: HAPPIER TIMES: Governor Mark Sanford and his wife, Jenny, in 2006. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARY ANN CHASTAIN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(PG. ST1)
MINUS ONE: The Gosselins of ''Jon & Kate Plus 8''
 the parents are separated. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL PILLA/TLC) (PG. ST9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); TRENDS (88%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (88%); FAMILY LAW (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MEN (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); WOMEN (76%); HISTORY (75%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (75%); VIRUSES (70%); PSYCHOLOGY (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); SOCIAL MEDIA (68%); CELEBRITIES (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (60%); WRITERS (60%); INFLUENZA (60%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (56%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%)

PERSON: MARK SANFORD (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2009



777 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION WESTCHESTER; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 912 words

HEADLINE: It's Thinking-Cap Time

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

 BODY:
WHEN it comes to selling real estate, desperate times call for desperate measures -- or, at the very least, creative thinking. 
 Debbie Meiliken's recent exploits provide a good example. A year ago she was one of roughly 7,000 agents in Westchester peddling a growing inventory of homes to wary buyers in a tough market. Ms. Meiliken's phone was just as obstinately silent as everybody else's, until she jumped in where others feared to tread. 
 The Associated Press contacted her after discovering an article she had written for a local online newspaper, The Loop, about Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner's five-bedroom, four-and-a-half-bath Larchmont Tudor. He put it on the market for $1.635 million when he moved to Washington with his family. 
 Not that Ms. Meiliken, or her agency, Keller Williams, had the Geithner listing. That honor belonged to Houlihan Lawrence, which had repeatedly refused to talk publicly about it. But Ms. Meiliken turned out to be ''more than happy'' to explore the topic of the Geithner house, and why it hadn't sold, with any interested party in the media. (The house is now being rented out, for $7,500 a month.) 
 In the ensuing weeks, Bloomberg News, The Huffington Post, CNBC, The Los Angeles Times and USA Today, among others, picked up the A.P. report. The New York Post interviewed her; she appeared on Fox News; ''The Daily Show'' is planning a segment about her. 
 She has become the recognized expert on the house's market travails. ''It wasn't priced aggressively enough,'' she asserted recently. ''I would have listed it for $100,000 less. Everyone's looking for a bargain today.''
 The hullabaloo has landed her a few new listings, she said.
 Ms. Meiliken is one of a growing number of sales agents and developers taking bold new measures to enhance their visibility -- although it is unclear whether their uber-marketing tactics are translating into revenue increases.
 Another example is provided by four independent agents affiliated with Coldwell Banker who in May invested $1,500 each in a venture called Platinum Relocation Partners. The new business specifically focuses on young Manhattan families burdened with the costs and problems of New York City schools.
 Tracy Isaacs, one of the Platinum brokers, explained their reasoning: Yes, property taxes in Westchester are among the highest in the region -- $41,159 a year, for example, for a five-bedroom colonial in Chappaqua listed at $1.6 million.
 But such sums still work out to be cheaper than paying private school tuition for a couple of kids in New York. At Trinity School on the Upper West Side, tuition for the coming academic year is $33,440 for kindergarten through Grade 8, and $1,000 more for high school students. 
 Ms. Isaacs, of Coldwell's Scarsdale office, has teamed up with Laura Acocella of the Bedford office and two Coldwell brokers in Connecticut: Judy Michaelis of Westport and Valerie SanAntonio of Greenwich.
 They have taken out quarter-page ads in New York Family, a magazine circulated in doorman buildings throughout the city and mailed to homes in the Hamptons. The partners also bought a targeted mailing list of 1,000 names and are hitting the cocktail party circuit.
 ''We're networking big time,'' Ms. Isaacs said, ''because just about everyone has a friend who lives in the city.'' 
 So far they haven't had any takers, but Platinum Partners is on the right track, according to Debra Hoffman-Brill, a broker with the Corcoran Group on the East Side of Manhattan. The residential market has picked up in Manhattan, she said, and couples unwilling or unable to pay high tuition costs and unsure whether there will be room for their children in the better public schools are ''finally getting off the fence'' and putting their condominiums up for sale.
 Another creative thinker is Greg Rand, a managing partner for Better Homes and Garden Rand Realty in White Plains, who has teamed with the developer Louis R. Cappelli to market 129 new condominiums ranging in price from $644,000 to $6 million at Mr. Cappelli's Ritz-Carlton Westchester. 
 At a June 1 sales conference -- heralded by Mr. Cappelli's publicists, Thompson & Bender, as a ''rare appearance'' by the already highly visible Mr. Cappelli -- the two men vowed to sell 30 units at the Ritz-Carlton in 30 days.
 ''The timing is right,'' Mr. Rand said. ''People are ready to live again.'' Units are being put on the market 10 at a time, he said, ''to create a sense of urgency.'' (As of June 25, two units had accepted offers, though no contracts had been signed.) 
 Walter Molony, a senior public affairs specialist at the National Association of Realtors in Washington, said such promotional gambits are on the rise. 
 ''It's way above and beyond what we've ever seen,'' Mr. Molony said, citing a builder in Naples, Fla., who put a coupon in a newspaper offering a $1 million discount on a house that had a price tag of $3.7 million. Other come-ons include a Porsche or a trip to Europe.
 Sellers in Westchester may not have reached such extremes. But while all wait to see which, if any, innovative tactics take hold, Ron Laufer, an agent at Coldwell Banker, has this advice to contemplate: ''In this economy, you have no choice but to put yourself out there. It's not enough to just duck and cover and hope for the best. At the very least, those of us who continue to plug away are more likely to survive and still be here when the worst is over.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: BLUSHER: Rosa Fanelli makes up the face of Debbie Meiliken, a real estate agent in Scarsdale whose eagerness to discuss Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner's house has led to TV appearances, and, she says, new listings.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ALAN ZALE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); TUITION FEES (84%); SALES FORCE (78%); HOME PRICES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); PROPERTY TAX (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (70%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (69%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (65%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (60%)

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (67%); FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (66%); ASSOCIATED PRESS (57%); BLOOMBERG LP (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (67%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (67%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (66%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (66%); SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (54%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2009



778 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: The Pitfalls Of the Public Option

BYLINE: By N. GREGORY MANKIW. 
N. Gregory Mankiw is a professor of economics at Harvard. He was an adviser to President George W. Bush.

 BODY:
IN the debate over health care reform, one issue looms large: whether to have a public option. Should all Americans have the opportunity to sign up for government-run health insurance?
 President Obama has made his own preferences clear. In a letter to Senators Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts and Max Baucus of Montana, the chairmen of two key Senate committees, he wrote: ''I strongly believe that Americans should have the choice of a public health insurance option operating alongside private plans. This will give them a better range of choices, make the health care market more competitive, and keep insurance companies honest.''
 Even if one accepts the president's broader goals of wider access to health care and cost containment, his economic logic regarding the public option is hard to follow. Consumer choice and honest competition are indeed the foundation of a successful market system, but they are usually achieved without a public provider. We don't need government-run grocery stores or government-run gas stations to ensure that Americans can buy food and fuel at reasonable prices. 
 An important question about any public provider of health insurance is whether it would have access to taxpayer funds. If not, the public plan would have to stand on its own financially, as private plans do, covering all expenses with premiums from those who signed up for it.
 But if such a plan were desirable and feasible, nothing would stop someone from setting it up right now. In essence, a public plan without taxpayer support would be yet another nonprofit company offering health insurance. The fundamental viability of the enterprise does not depend on whether the employees are called ''nonprofit administrators'' or ''civil servants.''
 In practice, however, if a public option is available, it will probably enjoy taxpayer subsidies. Indeed, even if the initial legislation rejected them, such subsidies would be hard to avoid in the long run. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the mortgage giants created by federal law, were once private companies. Yet many investors believed -- correctly, as it turned out -- that the federal government would stand behind Fannie's and Freddie's debts, and this perception gave these companies access to cheap credit. Similarly, a public health insurance plan would enjoy the presumption of a government backstop.
 Such explicit or implicit subsidies would prevent a public plan from providing honest competition for private suppliers of health insurance. Instead, the public plan would likely undercut private firms and get an undue share of the market.
 President Obama might not be disappointed if that turned out to be the case. During the presidential campaign, he said, ''If I were designing a system from scratch, I would probably go ahead with a single-payer system.''
 Of course, we are not starting from scratch. Because many Americans are happy with their current health care, moving immediately to a single-payer system is too radical a change to be politically tenable. But for those who see single-payer as the ideal, a public option that uses taxpayer funds to tilt the playing field may be an attractive second best. If the subsidies are big enough, over time more and more consumers will be induced to switch.
 Which raises the question: Would the existence of a dominant government provider of health insurance be good or bad?
 It is natural to be skeptical. The largest existing public health programs -- Medicare and Medicaid -- are the main reason that the government's long-term finances are in shambles. True, Medicare's administrative costs are low, but it is easy to keep those costs contained when a system merely writes checks without expending the resources to control wasteful medical spending.
 A dominant government insurer, however, could potentially keep costs down by squeezing the suppliers of health care. This cost control works not by fostering honest competition but by thwarting it.
 Recall a basic lesson of economics: A market participant with a dominant position can influence prices in a way that a small, competitive player cannot. A monopoly -- a seller without competitors -- can profitably raise the price of its product above the competitive level by reducing the quantity it supplies to the market. Similarly, a monopsony -- a buyer without competitors -- can reduce the price it pays below the competitive level by reducing the quantity it demands.
 This lesson applies directly to the market for health care. If the government has a dominant role in buying the services of doctors and other health care providers, it can force prices down. Once the government is virtually the only game in town, health care providers will have little choice but to take whatever they can get. It is no wonder that the American Medical Association opposes the public option.
 To be sure, squeezing suppliers would have unpleasant side effects. Over time, society would end up with fewer doctors and other health care workers. The reduced quantity of services would somehow need to be rationed among competing demands. Such rationing is unlikely to work well.
 FAIRNESS is in the eye of the beholder, but nothing about a government-run health care system strikes me as fair. Squeezing providers would save the rest of us money, but so would a special tax levied only on health care workers, and that is manifestly inequitable.
 In the end, it would be a mistake to expect too much from health insurance reform. A competitive system of private insurers, lightly regulated to ensure that the market works well, would offer Americans the best health care at the best prices.
 The health care of the future won't come cheap, but a public option won't make it better. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID G. KLEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (92%); HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (89%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); INSURANCE (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); GAS STATIONS (72%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (58%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (57%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (54%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (81%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (81%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (81%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (81%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); TED KENNEDY (57%); MAX BAUCUS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2009



779 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 837 words

HEADLINE: Punk Institution Receives City Money for New Building

BYLINE: By COLIN MOYNIHAN

 BODY:
Three years ago, when the collective that runs the community and cultural center ABC No Rio received the deed to the crumbling, graffiti-covered tenement that had housed them on the Lower East Side for nearly 30 years, members of the group and their supporters rejoiced. 
 Formed in 1980 after an art show on gentrification, ABC No Rio endured attempts by the Giuliani administration to evict it from its city-owned building on Rivington Street in the 1990s. So when the Department of Housing Preservation and Development decided in 2006 to turn the building over to the collective in exchange for $1 and an agreement that the group would make badly needed repairs, many saw the deal as a crucial step for the survival of a beloved local landmark. 
 Soon after the transfer, however, an architect determined that the building was beyond repair and would have to be replaced. The budget for the project soared to $2.4 million, from $700,000. And then fund-raising -- never easy for a small organization run mainly by volunteers -- became even more difficult as the economy declined. Housing officials became concerned that renovations did not begin as quickly as expected; others questioned the group's ability to finance the expensive task of a new structure.
 But much of the uncertainty vanished last week when the Manhattan borough president, Scott M. Stringer, and City Councilman Alan J. Gerson allocated $1.65 million for a new building. 
 Mr. Stringer arranged for a capital grant of $750,000, citing ABC No Rio's resilience and cultural value. The rest of the money came in the form of a grant of $450,000 from Mr. Gerson's discretionary budget, which was matched with another $450,000 by the City Council. The money will be controlled by the Department of Cultural Affairs. 
 ''Practically and psychologically it's a game changer,'' Steven Englander, the group's coordinator, said on Friday. ''We'll be able to make our vision into reality.''
 Following the announcement, an open house that night turned into a celebration. Some visitors wandered through the zine library or stopped by a room where a poetry reading was in progress. Others gathered in the art gallery on the ground floor, where they gazed at architectural plans and signed cards thanking the elected officials for their help.
 ABC No Rio board members said that they hoped to demolish the four-story tenement next spring and had designs for a one-story building with a basement that will extend farther back than the current structure and provide roughly the same amount of space.
 Today, the distinctive pale brick edifice, adorned with murals, fire escapes painted gold, and a welded metal entryway made of rebar and gear wheels, is recognized in art circles around the world. Near the front door is a sign that reads, ''Culture of opposition since 1980.'' Inside is a computer center, a screen-printing shop and a darkroom, all open to the public. Weekly events include bicycle repair workshops, improvisational jazz sets and floor-shaking punk shows featuring bands like Zero Content and Absurd System.
 Mr. Gerson, who represents the Lower East Side, said that ABC No Rio provided a unique outlet for art forms that might not otherwise have a home. He added that it was essential for the grants to be provided this year.
 ''It was now or never,'' Mr. Gerson said. ''It was a critical moment in their existence.''
 That existence began on Dec. 31, 1979, when artists took over an empty city-owned building on Delancey Street and organized an exhibition called the Real Estate Show. The city halted the show but later invited the artists to lease 156 Rivington Street, where the group formed a collective and adopted its name from the remaining letters on a Spanish sign across the street for a lawyer and notary public. 
 In 1994 the city stopped accepting rent, filed eviction papers and prepared to sell the building to a developer. But after a series of demonstrations the city stopped eviction proceedings in 1997 with an agreement that the group would begin raising money to fix the building. 
 Since then the collective has raised about $500,000. Some of that came in the form of $5 fees collected at the door during music shows or other performances. On other occasions artists like Claes Oldenberg and Yoko Ono donated works to be auctioned. 
 More recently, board members began a determined lobbying campaign, and met with city officials. One of those members, Susan Howard, said that she had tried to describe the feelings of devotion among the people who used the building and volunteered there. Indeed, even as they celebrated the prospect of a new building, there were plenty of visitors Friday night who said they would miss the familiar rooms and hallways of the welcoming old tenement. 
 ''This has been a resource for anyone who is interested in creating,'' Ms. Howard said, sitting in the building's garden, which would be replaced by the new structure. ''It nurtures them and allows them to grow as people and as artists.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Artists and supporters of the ABC No Rio center on Rivington Street gathered in the backyard to celebrate news of funding.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA EBELHAR/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUDGETS (88%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); PAINTING (77%); BUILDING RENOVATION (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); EVICTION (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); CITIES (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (52%); POETRY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2009



780 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1356 words

HEADLINE: As Arenas Sprout, a Scramble to Keep Them Filled

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
In the inaugural season for the new ballparks for the New York Yankees and Mets, the teams have been embarrassed by television shots showing vast areas of premium seats going unsold.
 But those who study sporting facilities say empty seats may become even more commonplace here, as New York faces a glut of sports arenas.
 Five major complexes -- four existing and one planned -- will soon be slugging it out within an area 30 miles wide.
 At least two of the existing arenas already lose money, and experts say further casualties are almost guaranteed. 
 ''Five arenas is not going to work,'' said Mark S. Rosentraub, a professor of sports management at the University of Michigan. ''I don't think four works, even in a market as large as New York. There's competition in every direction and there aren't enough events.''
 In Brooklyn, the developer Bruce C. Ratner is racing to start construction of a $772 million arena for the Nets basketball team, even as Newark woos the Nets for its money-losing Prudential Center arena. 
 In New Jersey, the owner of the Devils hockey team, which abandoned the Izod Center in the Meadowlands to play at Prudential Center, wants Gov. Jon S. Corzine to tear down the Izod Center, in the hopes of eliminating a competing venue.
 On Long Island, Charles Wang is pressuring local officials to approve his plans to rebuild the much-maligned Nassau Coliseum for his Islanders hockey team by hinting that the team might flee to Queens, or leave New York altogether.
 Then there is Madison Square Garden, whose owners are starting a $500 million overhaul of the 41-year-old arena. The Garden's cachet helps draw performers, but the arena has another considerable advantage: three major professional sports teams play there, leaving the Garden with fewer dates to fill than the region's other arenas, which all play host to only one major sports team apiece.
 By the time the arena in Brooklyn, which will be called Barclays Center, is built, there will be a total of nearly 100,000 seats to fill, 365 days a year. 
 ''The market is saturated,'' said Professor Rosentraub. ''In the long run, you've got serious challenges.''
 For most of the last 30 years, there were only three arenas in the New York area: the Garden, Nassau Coliseum and the Izod Center, which opened in 1981 as the Brendan Byrne Arena. Each facility, at one time or another, was home to at least two major sports franchises. But in New York, as in the rest of the country, teams have sought and obtained new buildings -- a trend that has contributed to a glut of arenas.
 And stadiums and other nontraditional sites have become new rivals. For example, KeySpan Park in Coney Island, which opened in 2001, also hosts musical acts. 
 Similar battles are already taking a toll in smaller markets than New York.
 In Glendale, Ariz., the city-owned Jobing.com Arena -- which is losing money and events to US Airways Center in nearby Phoenix and a third arena at Arizona State -- may lose its National Hockey League franchise, the Phoenix Coyotes, which filed for bankruptcy last month.
 In the Minneapolis-St. Paul region, the Target Center, which is owned by the city of Minneapolis, vies with the publicly subsidized Xcel Energy Center in St. Paul. The Minnesota Timberwolves basketball team plays at the Target Center; the Minnesota Wild hockey team plays at Xcel Energy Center. Both sites are losing money, and they must also compete with the University of Minnesota, which has two arenas. 
 In Columbus, Ohio, the Blue Jackets hockey team recently opened negotiations to sell its money-losing Nationwide Arena to the county, but the recession has made the sale somewhat unlikely. Nationwide Arena competes for concerts and other nonsporting events with Ohio State University's Jerome Schottenstein Center, which barely breaks even, according to a report by The Columbus Dispatch.
 All of this competition can eat deeply into revenues.
 At Nationwide Arena, concert promoters have been known to use the competition as leverage to get a better deal. In some cases, according to Mike Priest, president of the Blue Jackets and JMAC, which manages the arena, promoters have forced the management to guarantee as much as $1.1 million for a major band, even though the same act commands $350,000 less in Indianapolis, which has one main arena.
 The competition in the New York area is not just for fans and performers, but also for public subsidies, corporate sponsors and well-heeled tenants for luxury suites.
 And within the overall competition, there are subsets of more intense rivalries. In New Jersey, the owner of the $375 million Prudential Center has taken aim at the state-owned Izod Center; in New York, the proposed Barclays Center in Brooklyn is positioned to be a rival of the Garden and the Nassau Coliseum.
 No one questions the Garden's stature as the most venerable and busiest of arenas. It routinely books 275 hockey and basketball games (the Garden is home to the Rangers, Knicks and Liberty), circuses and concerts a year; most operators say arenas need to fill 200 dates to generate an operating surplus.
 Still, the Garden's owners zealously guard their franchise. They successfully opposed the city's plan in 2005 to build a $2 billion football stadium nearby. The Garden is now embarking on a complete renovation of the arena at a cost of more than $500 million. The 89 existing luxury boxes at the top of the arena will be replaced by 97 plush suites much closer to the action.
 The Garden, however, may be looking over its shoulder at Brooklyn, where Mr. Ratner has fought to build a new arena ever since he bought the Nets in 2003. His company has said it intends to host college basketball and boxing cards -- both mainstays at the Garden.
 Mr. Ratner must start construction by the end of the year in order to qualify for tax-exempt financing, but he faces a number of hurdles, including public approvals and a possible lawsuit.
 If successful, Mr. Ratner's arena would be built next to a major transit hub that involves 10 subway lines and the Long Island Rail Road, providing access for those who might normally visit Nassau Coliseum, 16 miles to the east. Mr. Wang, whose Islanders hockey team plays there, has publicly bemoaned his inability to redevelop the arena, while he spends more than $20 million a year to keep the team alive.
 Still, Mr. Ratner's arena would be the most expensive in the country, and his company has already sustained $111.9 million in pretax losses on the Nets. And critics contend that the tax revenues generated at Barclays Center will fall short of the $300 million in cash and tens of millions of dollars in tax breaks the state and the city have pledged to the arena and a related housing development. 
 In New Jersey, the owner of the Devils, Jeff Vanderbeek, and the City of Newark would rather have the Nets move from the Izod Center to the Prudential Center. The Devils played at Izod Center until the team's move to Newark in 2007.
 The Nets have rebuffed the invitation. ''It's flattering,'' said Brett Yormark, chief executive of Nets Sports and Entertainment. ''But we're going to Brooklyn.''
 So far, Prudential Center has not been a success. The Devils invested $155 million in the arena, while Newark put up $220 million and spent another $85 million on related projects. The team is supposed to pay a minimum of $2 million a year in rent, far less than the city's $12.6 million annual debt service for the arena. But the Devils are disputing their rent bill and have yet to pay a dime.
 Mr. Vanderbeek, who declined comment, touched off a political firestorm this month when he told The Record of Hackensack that the state needed to tear down the Izod Center. That, he told the paper's editorial board, would boost the bottom line of the Prudential Center and the Devils by at least $10 million annually.
 His comments brought a quick rebuke from Governor Corzine and the New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority, which runs the Izod Center. Whether the Nets stay or go, the authority still needs to generate revenue to pay the bonds on the state-owned building.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Prudential Center in Newark, home to Devils hockey, is losing money.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BARTON SILVERMAN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A15)
DRAWING: A rendering of a renovated Madison Square Garden, a project costing more than $500 million. (DRAWING BY MADISON SQUARE GARDEN)
 MAP: Plenty of Seats, But Will People Come?: Five major sports complexes will soon be competing in the New York area. At least two of the arenas the Prudential Center and the Nassau Coliseum already lose money.(A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (91%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); BASEBALL (78%); SPORTS BUSINESS (77%); TRENDS (75%); BASKETBALL (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); APPROVALS (64%)

COMPANY: NATIONAL GRID PLC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (84%); NEW YORK YANKEES (84%); NEW JERSEY DEVILS (82%); NEW JERSEY NETS (82%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (54%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (54%)

TICKER: NGG (NYSE) (50%); NG (LSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (50%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (50%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (50%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (50%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (87%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (87%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2009



781 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 930 words

HEADLINE: Orbitz Searches for a Deal for Its Campaigns

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
ORBITZ, the discount travel Web site, is sending an important advertising assignment on a cross-country trip -- and a principal reason is the same one that computer users visit orbitz.com: to try to save money.
 The assignment to create campaigns for Orbitz Worldwide is leaving Mullen in Boston, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, for an agency in Hollywood named Trailer Park. As its name suggests, Trailer Park was known for producing movie trailers, and it has since branched out into entertainment marketing as well as assignments for brands like American Express, Dell, eBay, Netflix and Nissan. 
 Although the creative assignment is leaving Mullen after almost three years, the MediaHub unit of Mullen will still handle media planning and buying for Orbitz, an assignment it was awarded in 2007.
 Orbitz's decision to hand over creative duties to an agency outside the realm of Madison Avenue demonstrates how marketers are seeking to think differently as they cope with changing consumer behavior and the effects of the recession.
 For instance, AdAge.com -- the Web site of the trade publication Advertising Age, owned by Crain Communications -- reported recently that Gap Inc. was reaching beyond the creative agency for its Gap division, Laird & Partners in New York, for the first time in seven years.
 And other marketers have hired agencies that specialize in interactive advertising to create campaigns that appear in traditional media as well as online.
 For Orbitz, the genesis of the shift was a need for ''a model that better suits the pace of e-business,'' said Jeffrey Davidoff, senior vice president and chief marketing officer, by ''shrinking production windows from months to weeks or days.''
 When Mr. Davidoff joined Orbitz in October from the Whirlpool Corporation, where he had been vice president for brand marketing and communications, ''there's no question one of my jobs coming in was to look at resources,'' he said.
 ''My predisposition was not to change anything,'' he added, ''but in this calendar year, we've had so many changes to our business that my brand marketing couldn't keep up.''
 To be sure, saving money is another factor in the switch, Mr. Davidoff said.
 ''One of the things we're going after is how low is low,'' he added, referring to costs, which led to the idea of ''throwing out a lot of the traditional paradigm.''
 However, ''this is not about us taking marketing dollars out of the market and putting them into our pocket,'' Mr. Davidoff said. ''It's about telling more stories than we've been able to tell'' -- that is, producing more ads than previously, in outlets that include television, radio, Web sites and social media. 
 Officially, Trailer Park is becoming the creative content agency of record for Orbitz, handling roles from ''ideation to production,'' Mr. Davidoff said. Trailer Park, owned by Lake Capital, began seeking such assignments from marketers a year ago to add to its work for entertainment companies like Walt Disney, Sony and Viacom.
 ''What I found in Trailer Park was a production-creative hybrid agency, a different model from traditional ad agencies,'' said Rick Eiserman, chief executive, who joined in April 2008 after working for units of WPP that included Bounce Entertainment and Events, Brand Buzz and Young & Rubicam Brands.
 ''We began to make the case that if you could put an agency and a production company together, you could service a client faster,'' he added. ''And speed allows us to reduce costs.''
 Estimates in recent years were that Orbitz spent $50 million to $60 million on advertising in major media. According to TNS Media Intelligence, a unit of WPP that tracks ad spending, Orbitz spent $54.7 million on such ads last year, down 2.8 percent from $56.3 million in 2007.
 For the first quarter of 2009, TNS reported, Orbitz ad spending in major media totaled $9.9 million, down 36.5 percent from $15.6 million in the same period a year ago. Orbitz competes in a crowded category against Web sites like Expedia, Priceline and Travelocity. Travelocity is introducing an aggressive campaign promoting summer deals.
 The most recent Orbitz work from Mullen features an offbeat character in a hovercraft, representing the ''Orbitz Traveler Wellness Center.'' He delivers refund checks to customers under a price assurance guarantee. One commercial takes place in a front yard and another on a golf course.
 Ads from Trailer Park will retain the character and his quirky ride, Mr. Eiserman said, ''building on the momentum of the work Jeff's already put in place.''
 At Mullen, said a spokesman, David Swaebe, ''we understand that Orbitz needs to significantly reduce their expenses, and they're moving to a low-cost production model using the creative that we've developed for them.''
 ''We've recently completed a new round of strategic and creative work, which is on the air, and the client has told us they're very happy with it,'' Mr. Swaebe said. ''We're happy to help with any original strategic and creative thinking in the future.''
 Whether or not Orbitz seeks such help from Mullen, ''we have a substantial ongoing relationship with Orbitz as the media agency of record,'' he added.
 Sharp-eyed viewers of the golf course commercial may have noticed the polo shirt worn by one of four golfers bears the logo of the Human Rights Campaign, a national gay-rights group. Orbitz has aimed ads at gay and lesbian travelers for several years; the inclusion of the logo was the work of Walton/Isaacson, an agency Orbitz uses to reach the gay and lesbian market. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: As Orbitz shifts part of its ad account, its spots will keep the hovercraft idea. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ORBITZ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); BRANDING (89%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (78%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (78%); SOCIAL MEDIA (73%); TRAILER PARKS (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); RECESSION (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (64%)

COMPANY: ORBITZ WORLDWIDE INC (92%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (91%); GAP INC (82%); WHIRLPOOL CORP (65%); NETFLIX INC (57%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (57%)

TICKER: OWW (NYSE) (92%); IPG (NYSE) (91%); GPS (NYSE) (82%); WHR (NYSE) (65%); NFLX (NASDAQ) (57%); AXP (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (92%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (92%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (91%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (91%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (82%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (82%); NAICS335228 OTHER MAJOR HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS335224 HOUSEHOLD LAUNDRY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (57%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (88%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2009



782 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: Betraying the Planet

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
So the House passed the Waxman-Markey climate-change bill. In political terms, it was a remarkable achievement.
 But 212 representatives voted no. A handful of these no votes came from representatives who considered the bill too weak, but most rejected the bill because they rejected the whole notion that we have to do something about greenhouse gases. 
 And as I watched the deniers make their arguments, I couldn't help thinking that I was watching a form of treason -- treason against the planet. 
 To fully appreciate the irresponsibility and immorality of climate-change denial, you need to know about the grim turn taken by the latest climate research. 
 The fact is that the planet is changing faster than even pessimists expected: ice caps are shrinking, arid zones spreading, at a terrifying rate. And according to a number of recent studies, catastrophe -- a rise in temperature so large as to be almost unthinkable -- can no longer be considered a mere possibility. It is, instead, the most likely outcome if we continue along our present course.
 Thus researchers at M.I.T., who were previously predicting a temperature rise of a little more than 4 degrees by the end of this century, are now predicting a rise of more than 9 degrees. Why? Global greenhouse gas emissions are rising faster than expected; some mitigating factors, like absorption of carbon dioxide by the oceans, are turning out to be weaker than hoped; and there's growing evidence that climate change is self-reinforcing -- that, for example, rising temperatures will cause some arctic tundra to defrost, releasing even more carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. 
 Temperature increases on the scale predicted by the M.I.T. researchers and others would create huge disruptions in our lives and our economy. As a recent authoritative U.S. government report points out, by the end of this century New Hampshire may well have the climate of North Carolina today, Illinois may have the climate of East Texas, and across the country extreme, deadly heat waves -- the kind that traditionally occur only once in a generation -- may become annual or biannual events.
 In other words, we're facing a clear and present danger to our way of life, perhaps even to civilization itself. How can anyone justify failing to act?
 Well, sometimes even the most authoritative analyses get things wrong. And if dissenting opinion-makers and politicians based their dissent on hard work and hard thinking -- if they had carefully studied the issue, consulted with experts and concluded that the overwhelming scientific consensus was misguided -- they could at least claim to be acting responsibly.
 But if you watched the debate on Friday, you didn't see people who've thought hard about a crucial issue, and are trying to do the right thing. What you saw, instead, were people who show no sign of being interested in the truth. They don't like the political and policy implications of climate change, so they've decided not to believe in it -- and they'll grab any argument, no matter how disreputable, that feeds their denial.
 Indeed, if there was a defining moment in Friday's debate, it was the declaration by Representative Paul Broun of Georgia that climate change is nothing but a ''hoax'' that has been ''perpetrated out of the scientific community.'' I'd call this a crazy conspiracy theory, but doing so would actually be unfair to crazy conspiracy theorists. After all, to believe that global warming is a hoax you have to believe in a vast cabal consisting of thousands of scientists -- a cabal so powerful that it has managed to create false records on everything from global temperatures to Arctic sea ice. 
 Yet Mr. Broun's declaration was met with applause.
 Given this contempt for hard science, I'm almost reluctant to mention the deniers' dishonesty on matters economic. But in addition to rejecting climate science, the opponents of the climate bill made a point of misrepresenting the results of studies of the bill's economic impact, which all suggest that the cost will be relatively low.
 Still, is it fair to call climate denial a form of treason? Isn't it politics as usual?
 Yes, it is -- and that's why it's unforgivable.
 Do you remember the days when Bush administration officials claimed that terrorism posed an ''existential threat'' to America, a threat in whose face normal rules no longer applied? That was hyperbole -- but the existential threat from climate change is all too real. 
 Yet the deniers are choosing, willfully, to ignore that threat, placing future generations of Americans in grave danger, simply because it's in their political interest to pretend that there's nothing to worry about. If that's not betrayal, I don't know what is. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATE CHANGE (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (78%); POLITICS (78%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (78%); EMISSIONS (76%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); ARCTIC (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2009



783 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1472 words

HEADLINE: A Plan to Stem Foreclosures, Buried in a Paper Avalanche

BYLINE: By PETER S. GOODMAN

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
Somewhere on earth, there must be a more difficult task than this: persuading American mortgage companies to lower payments for homeowners who can no longer afford their loans. But as Karina Montenegro struggles to accomplish this feat for a troubled borrower, she strains to imagine a more futile pursuit.
 Ms. Montenegro, an intern at a local company that seeks loan modifications, dials Washington Mutual to check on the status of an application for a homeowner whose income has plummeted. She endures a Muzak-scored purgatory while on hold. Syrupy-voiced customer service representatives chide her for landing in the wrong department. She learns that the documents her company sent in have simply vanished -- for the third time since November.
 ''I don't know what happened,'' says a customer service officer who identifies himself as Chris. ''I don't know if there was a glitch in the system, whether it was transferred from one call center to the other.'' 
 Think of the documents as being part of a pile massing inside the bank, Chris suggests. ''This pile is not going to be moved forward at any point in time.''
 Ms. Montenegro and her colleagues suffer these sorts of excruciating exchanges all day long. It is a potent indication of the difficulties afflicting the $75 billion taxpayer-financed program created by the Obama administration in an effort to avoid foreclosure for as many as four million distressed homeowners. 
 Under the plan, the government offers mortgage companies $1,000 for each loan they agree to modify, then another $1,000 a year for up to three years. 
 Hanging in the balance is more than the fate of individual homeowners. The administration portrays its mortgage program as a crucial piece of its broader effort to restore vigor to the economy. If the effort fails, foreclosures will continue to surge and home prices will probably keep falling, sowing fresh losses in the financial system and threatening to crimp credit anew for businesses and households.
 Yet in the four months since the Treasury Department announced the program, millions of new homeowners have slipped into delinquency and foreclosure. For now, progress is constrained by the limited capacities of mortgage servicing companies, said Michael S. Barr, the assistant Treasury secretary for financial institutions. He offered the first signs of the administration's impatience with the institutions that control home loans.
 ''They need to do a much better job on the basic management and operational side of their firms,'' Mr. Barr said. ''What we've been pushing the servicers to do is improve their infrastructure to make sure their call centers are doing a better job. The level of training is not there yet.''
 The administration still does not know how many mortgages have been modified under the program. In a recent interview, Mr. Barr estimated the number at ''over 50,000,'' explaining that precise figures must wait for a soon-to-be-completed tracking system. 
 By the end of August, the program should produce 20,000 loan modifications a week, he said. 
 Tom Kelly, a spokesman for JPMorgan Chase, which now owns Washington Mutual, affirmed the administration's criticism. 
 ''We've done a lot,'' he said, noting that the bank has added 950 loan counselors since the beginning of the year, bringing the total to 3,500. ''But we've got a lot more to do.'' 
 Two days in Los Angeles -- where a loan modification company allowed a reporter to listen as its agents contacted mortgage servicers provided the firm not be named -- starkly illustrated the problems. 
 The company charges homeowners $3,000, typically upfront, as it seeks to persuade lenders to rewrite loan documents so as to lower monthly payments. The company says it refunds the money when it fails to secure a modification.
 For Ms. Montenegro, a college student at the University of Southern California, her summer job makes for fitting symmetry. In high school, she worked as a clerk at a Washington Mutual branch in Downey, Calif., which specialized in mortgages that invited customers to make such tiny payments that their balances increased. 
 Many homeowners did not understand the terms: Once they owed a lot more than their house was worth, their payments spiked. Now, that day has come, and Ms. Montenegro is working the other side. She calls WaMu, as the bank is known, trying to cut deals. 
 Among her clients is Vladimir Vishmid, who owes $490,000 on the mortgage for his three-bedroom home in the Sherman Oaks section of Los Angeles. Mr. Vishmid's income as a self-employed computer engineer has plummeted, making it hard for him to make his $2,542 monthly payments. He is current on his loan, he says, but behind on his car insurance and utilities. 
 Software on Ms. Montenegro's computer logs the details of the three applications her company has submitted for Mr. Vishmid. Chris, the WaMu representative, is telling her to send in No. 4.
 ''Personally, I'd submit a new file,'' Chris counsels. ''I'm telling you honestly, anything over 30 days is a new submission for us.''
 For Ms. Montenegro, ''honestly'' is one of those words marinated in so much irony that her eyes roll. Two weeks earlier, she called the bank to check on the file and was told it was being reviewed. Now, it has disappeared.
 ''So, if I wouldn't have called, we wouldn't have known?'' Ms. Montenegro scolds.
 ''It would have just sat in the queue and nothing would have happened,'' Chris says. ''I wish I had a better explanation.''
 In the same office, Ms. Montenegro's colleague, Sean Milotta, has run into a problem on a loan billed by American Home Mortgage Servicing. Though the borrower appears eligible for the Obama administration plan, the company refuses to take an application because the loan is owned by an investor who is unwilling to absorb a loss.
 In another office down the hall, Ramin Lavi, 27, has picked up the file of Alice Descovich, who is seeking to shave down the $708,000 she owes on a mortgage serviced by WaMu for her home in Alameda, Calif. As the interest rates reset in coming months, it will become even harder for her to make the payments, which are now $4,400 a month.
 A note in the system shows that the bank confirmed receiving documents on April 29 -- pay stubs, tax returns, a letter disclosing her hardship, bank statements. Since then, the company has been waiting for WaMu to review the file. 
 But when Mr. Lavi calls, a representative coolly discloses that the application has been rejected because one document, a proof-of-insurance form, is missing. He must start over.
 ''The file had been submitted properly, and you didn't put the pieces together,'' Mr. Lavi says, his body quivering with anger. ''I'm not going to stand in line again for another six months.''
 He demands to speak to a supervisor, but the representative says none is free. He hangs up and redials, hoping to land in a different call center. Eventually, he reaches Chase's executive offices, where Becky takes over the call.
 ''We're not taking cases now,'' she says calmly.
 ''Why was I transferred to you?'' Mr. Lavi asks. Becky does not know. He implores her to keep the file open while he faxes in the lone missing document. 
 ''Impossible,'' she says, warning of ''the sheer amount of papers coming in.''
 Another agent, Lee Wasser, props his feet on an adjacent desk chair as he waits on hold for more than 20 minutes to speak with GMAC Mortgage. 
 His clients, Dean and Nancy Piercy, owe $380,000 on the loan for their home in Shasta Lake, Calif. Alogger, Mr. Piercy has lost work hours, making it hard for them keep up with their $2,048 monthly payment -- soon set to rise.
 Mr. Wasser has already negotiated a solution: GMAC will accept only $270,000 in repayment, allowing the couple to get a fixed rate mortgage from another bank.
 But that suddenly is in disarray. The Piercys have been making their payments, but GMAC has been putting their checks aside, holding the money as ''loss mitigation fees,'' until their application is completed. It has notified credit bureaus that their loan is more than 90 days delinquent, which has lowered their credit score, disqualifying them for the next mortgage. 
 Mr. Wasser reaches GMAC's loss mitigation department. He asks for the delinquency to be removed from their status. But that must be handled by a different department: customer service. He is transferred there, where Jessica picks up the call. 
 ''We are not going to amend,'' she says, after a strained back and forth. If Mr. Wasser wants it otherwise, he will have to talk to loss mitigation. 
 ''I just talked to them five minutes ago,'' he tells Jessica.
 ''No, you didn't.''
 ''Are you accusing me of lying?''
 Mr. Wasser asks for Jessica's employee identification number, but the line goes dead. Jessica has apparently hung up.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Vladimir Vishmid, a self-employed computer engineer, has submitted three applications to modify the loan on his home in Los Angeles, but his agent has been told none of them can be located. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (77%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (75%); CALL CENTERS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (67%); INTERVIEWS (64%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (57%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2009



784 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM BLOGGING AT NYTIMES.COM/CITYROOM.; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 427 words

BYLINE: By JAVIER C. HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
NEW YORK ON LESS:
 Seeing Schooling
 As a Place to Cut
 The phone keeps ringing at the Upper West Side office of Robin Aronow, an educational consultant and schools guru: anxious families suddenly rethinking whether they can afford private school, distressed parents wondering what to do if their children don't make it into vaunted gifted and talented programs. 
 As well-off families confront the new contours of their budgets, education may emerge as an attractive, if painful, place to cut. 
 Families who shunned the public school system may now be tempted to transfer to the nearest public school, and those just starting a family might look to move to a neighborhood with a rich concentration of esteemed public schools.
 ''It can be a little bit of a culture shock,'' said Dr. Aronow, who helps families find private and elite public schools. ''There's a major difference between public schools and private schools.''
 The decision can be particularly vexing for parents who have children already enrolled in private schools and are now considering pulling them out to save money, Dr. Aronow said. ''You're taking them from their friends, from their smaller class size, from generally better facilities,'' she said.
 The options in New York City are plentiful: Public (free)? Private (up to $36,000)? Catholic ($3,600)? Charter (free)?
 With the jittery economy still front and center, are you considering pulling your child from private school or moving to take advantage of public school options?
 Share your thoughts online.
 JAVIER C. HERNANDEZ 
 ALSO
 ONLINE
 INTERACTIVE: Reaching Out: For more coverage on the human side of the recession, visit the Living With Less guide, where readers can share their photos, moods and tips for weathering the economic downturn.
 NEW YORK
 DAYBOOK
 Parking Rules
 Because of Independence Day, alternate-side street-cleaning rules are suspended on Friday and Saturday.
 TAKING
 QUESTIONS
 This week, Barry Moreno, the New York historian and editor of ''The Statue of Liberty Encyclopedia,'' will be responding to readers' questions about the iconic woman of New York Harbor. 
 Mr. Moreno is the librarian and historian at the Statue of Liberty National Monument and the Ellis Island Immigration Museum. He is the author of a number of books, including ''The Encyclopedia of Ellis Island,'' ''Italian Americans,'' ''Ellis Island's Famous Immigrants'' and ''Manhattan Street Scenes.'' He is a graduate of California State University.
 Submit questions online; the first set of answers will appear Wednesday on the blog.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An expensive option: private schools, like Dalton. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Barry Moreno 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIVATE SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (85%); BUDGETS (78%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (74%); HISTORY (73%); GIFTED EDUCATION (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); RECESSION (69%); WRITERS (66%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (64%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (64%); IMMIGRATION (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2009



785 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 721 words

HEADLINE: Accounts, People & Miscellany

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
Accounts
 Crown Imports, Chicago, a venture of Grupo Modelo and Constellation Brands, selected Publicis New York -- part of the Publicis Worldwide unit of the Publicis Groupe -- to handle the creative assignment for Corona Light beer, which had been handled by Cramer-Krasselt, Chicago. Spending on the assignment was estimated at $10 million to $20 million. Cramer-Krasselt remains the creative agency for Corona Extra and Modelo Especial beers. 
 Fourth Wall Restaurants, New York, named Walrus, New York, as agency of record, to create campaigns for properties like the Smith & Wollensky location in Manhattan, the Post House, Maloney & Porcelli and Quality Meats. The assignment, for which billings were not disclosed, had been handled by Kirshenbaum Bond & Partners, New York, part of MDC Partners. 
 People
 Michael Wall joined Lowe Worldwide, London, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, as global chief executive, succeeding Steve Gatfield, who will take a part-time post as an executive vice president at Interpublic. Mr. Wall will work with Tony Wright, who continues as chairman of Lowe. Mr. Wall had most recently been chief executive for the Portugal operation of BBDO Worldwide, part of the Omnicom Group. Lowe is also forming a management committee whose members include Mr. Wall; Mr. Wright; Kevin Allen, vice chairman and head of business development; and Matthew Bull, chief creative officer. 
 Charlotte R. Otto, global external relations officer at the Procter & Gamble Company, Cincinnati, will step down from her post, overseeing public relations, on Wednesday, after 33 years at Procter and 13 leading external relations. Christopher D. Hassall, currently vice president for corporate communications and reputation and North America external relations, will succeed her. Ms. Otto will remain at Procter until Feb. 15, 2010, serving on special assignment to A. G. Lafley, the chairman.
 Miscellany
 GroupM, part of WPP, predicted that worldwide advertising spending this year would fall 5.5 percent from 2008, with a recovery beginning to take effect next year. Ad spending worldwide for 2010 will decline 1.4 percent from 2009, GroupM predicted. In the United States, according to the forecast, ad spending will fall 4.3 percent this year compared with 2008 and fall 6.5 percent next year compared with 2009.
 Comcast Spotlight, the advertising sales division of the Comcast Cable unit of the Comcast Corporation, will handle local ad sales in 10 markets for Fios TV, part of Verizon Communications. Fios TV competes against the cable service offered by Comcast in those markets, which include Baltimore, Boston, Philadelphia, Seattle and Washington. ''Even as we and Verizon compete in other areas of our businesses,'' Steve Burke, chief operating officer of Comcast and president of Comcast Cable, said in a statement, ''we both recognize the value of being partners in the advertising business and the importance of streamlining the way advertisers buy spot cable.''
 Four A's, New York, formerly the American Association of Advertising Agencies, canceled its annual planning conference for 2009, which was to have been held in San Francisco on Aug. 3-5. ''The planning community is one of the Four A's most engaged, and the decision to pull the plug on the conference was difficult,'' Kipp Cheng, a spokesman for the Four A's, wrote in an e-mail message, ''but we felt it was in keeping with the new budget realities'' and the fact that ''our registration numbers were well below expectations at this point.'' The conference will be replaced ''with a series of smaller events through the summer,'' Mr. Cheng said, ''culminating in the presentation of the Jay Chiat Awards for Strategic Planning -- usually presented at the Planning Conference -- during Advertising Week'' in New York in September. The cancellation came two months after the Four A's decided to merge its annual management conference with its annual media conference, beginning in 2010. The Four A's intends to hold the planning conference next year, Mr. Cheng said, ''as a bigger event'' with a ''bigger focus on international and strategic thinking beyond planning.'' In e-mail messages to those who signed up for the 2009 conference, Nancy Hill, chief executive at the Four A's, said the registration fees would be refunded.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (89%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (79%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (79%); BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (78%); BEER & ALE (78%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (76%); CABLE INDUSTRY (73%); RESTAURANTS (71%)

COMPANY: PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (95%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (85%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (84%); COMCAST CORP (83%); GRUPO MODELO SAB DE CV (74%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (66%); PUBLICIS USA (58%); CONSTELLATION BRANDS INC (58%); CRAMER-KRASSELT CO (58%); MDC PARTNERS INC (56%); KIRSHENBAUM BOND & PARTNERS (56%); LOWE & PARTNERS WORLDWIDE (56%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (55%)

TICKER: PUB (PAR) (95%); IPG (NYSE) (85%); OMC (NYSE) (84%); CMCSA (NASDAQ) (83%); CCV (NYSE) (83%); GMODELO (BMV) (74%); PGP (PAR) (66%); PG (NYSE) (66%); STZ (NYSE) (58%); MDZ.A (TSX) (56%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (56%); VZC (LSE) (55%); VZ (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (95%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (95%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (95%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (95%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (85%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (83%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (74%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (66%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (66%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (66%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (58%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (58%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (58%); SIC2085 DISTILLED & BLENDED LIQUORS (58%); SIC2084 WINES, BRANDY, & BRANDY SPIRITS (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (55%)

PERSON: ALAN LAFLEY (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); BOSTON, MA, USA (75%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (54%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (75%); OHIO, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2009



786 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 407 words

HEADLINE: 2 Major Consulting Firms To Merge in an All-Stock Deal

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The management consulting firms Towers, Perrin, Forster & Crosby and Watson Wyatt Worldwide said on Sunday that they would merge in an all-stock deal valued at $3.5 billion. 
 The new firm, to be called Towers Watson & Company, will be a consultancy with 14,000 employees across more than two dozen countries.
 Shareholders of Watson Wyatt, which is publicly traded, and Towers Perrin, which is closely held, will each receive 50 percent of the combined company. The new publicly traded company is expected to have annual revenue of more than $3 billion.
 John Haley, chief executive of Watson Wyatt, will have that position at Towers Watson, while Mark Mactas, chief of Towers Perrin, will serve as president. The deal is expected to close shortly after a shareholder vote in the fourth quarter.
 Watson Wyatt is based in Arlington, Va., and Towers Perrin is based in Stamford, Conn. The companies are looking for a new headquarters in the northeastern United States, Mr. Haley told Bloomberg News.
 Watson Wyatt, founded in 1946, is worth $1.76 billion based on Friday's closing price. The firm helps companies make benefit and compensation plans, develop human resource strategies, does mergers and acquisitions work force planning and provides investment consulting services to pension plans and other institutional funds.
 Last month, Watson Wyatt reported that its fiscal third-quarter profit slipped 4 percent as the economic downturn reduced some consulting work. The company also lowered its profit and revenue outlook for the full year below Wall Street estimates, saying that projects tied to helping clients manage costs, mitigate risks or meet regulatory requirements were doing well but that divisions relying on shorter-term, more discretionary contracts had been hurt by the economic slump.
 Towers Perrin, founded in 1934, provides compensation and retirement consulting, mergers and acquisitions services and financial modeling software to clients across the aerospace, banking, chemical and lodging industries, among others. 
 ''This is an important transaction for our respective organizations that positions us well for a future of accelerated growth and higher levels of profitability,'' Mr. Mactas said in a statement. ''The fit between our firms is excellent.''
 The companies expect annual pretax savings of about $80 million. However, officials said it would take three years to realize the full potential of those savings.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (89%); MERGERS (89%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (75%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); LODGING (66%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: TOWERS WATSON & CO (98%); BLOOMBERG LP (56%)

TICKER: TW (NYSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (98%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (98%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (98%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (98%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (98%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%)

PERSON: JOHN J HALEY (73%); ROY W HALEY (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (55%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2009



787 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1065 words

HEADLINE: Exiled to Russia's Far Reaches: Casinos and Thousands of Jobs

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY

DATELINE: MOSCOW 

 BODY:
One of the largest mass layoffs in recent Russian history is to occur on Wednesday, and the Kremlin itself is decreeing it, economic crisis or not. 
 The government is shutting down every last legal casino and slot-machine parlor across the land, under an antivice plan promoted by Vladimir V. Putin that just a few months ago was widely perceived as far-fetched. But the result will be hundreds of thousands of people thrown out of work. 
 And in a move that at times seems to have taken on almost farcical overtones, the Kremlin has offered the gambling industry only one option for survival: relocate to four regions in remote areas of Russia, as many as 4,000 miles from the capital. The potential marketing slogans -- Come to the Las Vegas of Siberia! Have a Ball near the North Korean Border! -- may not sound inviting, but that is in part what the government envisions. 
 All the same, none of the four regions are prepared for the transfer, and no casino is expected to reopen for several years. As of July 1, not even two decades after casinos began proliferating here in the free-for-all post-Soviet era, the industry's workers will be out on the street. 
 ''This is shaking my life to the core -- such a blow for me and my family,'' said Irina Mysachka, 32, a single mother who is a supervisor at the Shangri-La Casino in Moscow, which appears as orderly and preened (if your tastes run to fire-breathing neon dragons and other Oriental kitsch) as any similar luxury attraction in the United States.
 ''The authorities are taking this step without thinking at all,'' she said. ''They have not considered what this decision means for the workers. With the crisis, it is going to be very difficult for us.''
 Unable to find a job in Moscow, she said she was going to leave her 5-year-old son, Yegor, with her mother and venture abroad.
 Aleksandr Osin, 24, who has been at Shangri-La for five years, said he would try his luck in the insurance business, but was not hopeful. ''We all thought that this was some kind of government thing that would not happen,'' he said. ''But now we know.''
 The law that started the whole process was introduced in 2006 by Mr. Putin, then the president and now the prime minister, who spoke of the perils of the blackjack tables and the one-armed bandits, of shady characters having a grip on the industry.
 The casinos have repeatedly asked for a reprieve, proposing a regulatory body to cut down on abuses, and lately pointing out that the ban would create hardships for workers during the crisis. The industry has also said it pays more than $1 billion a year in taxes. But Mr. Putin and his protege, President Dmitri A. Medvedev, have not yielded. ''The rules will not be revised in any way,'' Mr. Medvedev said last month, ''and there will be no backsliding, although various business organizations have been lobbying for precisely this.''
 The gambling industry here does not have the loftiest of reputations, and many Russians will not grieve for it. Still, many of the 40 or so casinos in Moscow sought in recent years to behave more respectably, even as hundreds of slot-machine parlors retained a seedy, enter-at-your-own-risk feel.
 The gambling industry says the ban will leave more than 400,000 people without work in Russia, at a time when it has been hard hit by the economic downturn: the World Bank predicts the economy will contract by 7.9 percent this year. The government has put the figure at 60,000 people, though industry analysts say that is absurdly low.
 Storm International, a gambling conglomerate controlled by a British expatriate, Michael Boettcher, said that until recently, it alone employed 6,000 people at Shangri-La and several other casinos in Moscow.
 Casinos in Russia are now to be confined to the Altai region of Siberia; the coastal area of the Far East, near the border with North Korea and China; Kaliningrad, a Russian enclave between Poland and Lithuania; and the Azov Sea region in the south. Until casinos open there, Russia will be one of the few countries in Europe without them, though underground ones are likely to be established.
 After the law passed, federal officials and casino executives seemed certain that it would be watered down, which is apparently why neither the casinos nor the four regions did anything to prepare. ''You know, in our country, the decisions are made by only one person,'' said Samuil Binder, deputy executive director of the Russian Association for Gaming Business Development. He was referring to Mr. Putin.
 After the Soviet Union's fall in 1991, gambling sprang up everywhere in Russia, from first-class locations in Moscow to side-alley hangouts in the provinces. The crazy-quilt growth was something of a metaphor for capitalism here, full of possibilities and schemes and corruption.
 The industry has been largely unregulated, and especially in recent years, almost anyone could get a license, for as little as $50. Russia is not a strait-laced place -- rates of smoking and drinking are high -- but an outcry about gambling ensued. ''It is not only young people, but also retirees who lose their last kopecks and pensions through gambling,'' Mr. Putin said in 2006.
 His plan was announced during a spy scandal between Russia and its neighbor Georgia, and the timing suggested that Mr. Putin was in part seeking to wound the Georgian diaspora here, which is said to have an influential role in the industry.
 As with the workers, it seems to have dawned on the gamblers themselves only recently that the casinos are closing.
 ''It is going to be strange, and even now, it's hard to believe,'' said Aleksei Ustinenko, 29, a construction executive who was playing at Shangri-La.
 ''Here we are, in one of the biggest, most beautiful, most expensive cities in the world,'' he said. ''And yet other people can decide that I cannot gamble if I want to.''
 Some casinos said they might try to devote some space to private poker clubs, which they believe will be allowed under the law. But executives say such clubs are far less lucrative, and will employ very few workers.
 And so laborers have been pulling down gambling signs and carting slot machines from sites all over Moscow.
 ''There was a time when all these clubs and casinos grew like a cancer tumor,'' said Moscow's mayor, Yuri M. Luzhkov. ''We will close them all. By July 1, Moscow will be clean.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The word ''casino'' has already been removed from gambling halls on a busy Moscow street. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES HILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A10) MAP: Gambling will be relocated to four regions, including Altai. (pg.A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAMING (90%); LAYOFFS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); CARD GAMES (72%); SINGLE PARENTS (64%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (54%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2009



788 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1128 words

HEADLINE: OBAMA OPPOSES TRADE SANCTIONS IN CLIMATE BILL

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER; David D. Kirkpatrick contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama on Sunday praised the energy bill passed by the House late last week as an ''extraordinary first step,'' but he spoke out against a provision that would impose trade penalties on countries that do not accept limits on global warming pollution.
 ''At a time when the economy worldwide is still deep in recession and we've seen a significant drop in global trade,'' Mr. Obama said, ''I think we have to be very careful about sending any protectionist signals out there.''
 He added, ''I think there may be other ways of doing it than with a tariff approach.'' 
 The passage of the House bill on Friday night was an important, if tentative, victory for the president, becoming the first time either chamber of Congress had approved a mandatory ceiling on the gases linked to global warming. 
 Mr. Obama, hoping to build momentum in the Senate after the narrow victory in the House, delayed the start of a Sunday golf game to speak to a small group of reporters in the Oval Office. 
 He acknowledged that the initial targets for reducing emissions of heat-trapping gases set by the House bill were quite modest and would probably not satisfy the governments of other countries or many environmental groups. But he said he hoped to build on those early targets in fashioning a more robust program in the future as part of his administration's efforts to move the nation from an economy based on fossil fuels toward one built on renewable energy sources.
 Mr. Obama predicted that similar energy legislation would face a difficult slog through the Senate and require months of tough negotiations and additional compromises. The horse-trading and vote-buying that helped House leaders secure a 219-to-212 victory will be magnified in the Senate, where several powerful committee leaders are already asserting authority and Democratic moderates hold more power than their counterparts in the House.
 Mr. Obama set no timetable for Senate action but exhorted its leadership to take the House bill as a benchmark and ''seize the day.''
 The president used the interview to put the House vote in the context of his broader efforts to modernize the American economy by shifting to cleaner and more efficient forms of energy.
 He said the House bill was a ''comprehensive approach'' that included a cap-and-trade program to limit heat-trapping gas emissions, incentives for new energy efficiency measures and support for wind and solar energy as well as nuclear power and so-called clean coal technology.
 He said that those measures, combined with the administration's new automobile mileage standards and stimulus spending on research and home weatherization, represented a sea change in American energy policy.
 ''I think it's fair to say that over the first six months we've seen more action on shifting ourselves away from dependence on foreign oil and fossil fuels than at any time in several decades,'' Mr. Obama said.
 Mr. Obama linked the energy and health care fights, saying that major revisions in both were necessary because ''everybody knows what we're doing isn't working.''
 ''The status quo is unacceptable,'' he said.
 As he has done in the health care discussions, Mr. Obama refused to deliver definitive judgments on specific provisions of the energy bill, leaving the legislative wrangling to members of Congress. But he said his bottom line for energy and climate change legislation included meaningful reductions in heat-trapping gas emissions, strong incentives for energy efficiency, protections for consumers and businesses against spikes in energy costs, and deficit neutrality.
 ''If it meets those broad criteria,'' he said, ''then it's a bill I want to embrace.''
 The House bill contains a provision, inserted in the middle of the night before the vote Friday, that requires the president, starting in 2020, to impose a ''border adjustment'' -- or tariff -- on certain goods from countries that do not act to limit their global warming emissions. The president can waive the tariffs only if he receives explicit permission from Congress. 
 The provision was added to secure the votes of Rust Belt lawmakers who were wavering on the bill because of fears of job losses in heavy industry. 
 In the floor debate on the bill Friday, one of its authors, Representative Sander M. Levin, Democrat of Michigan, said, ''As we act, we can and must ensure that the U.S. energy-intensive industries are not placed at a competitive disadvantage by nations that have not made a similar commitment to reduce greenhouse gases.'' 
 In the interview on Sunday, Mr. Obama said American industries like steel, aluminum, paper and glass had legitimate concerns about competition from developing nations. But he warned that trade sanctions based on the extent to which other countries curbed carbon dioxide emissions might be illegal and counterproductive.
 Mr. Obama has sometimes sent mixed signals about his attitude toward free trade. In the Democratic presidential primary, he was fiercely critical of several free trade agreements with China, Caribbean countries and Mexico for failing to include strict enough environmental standards. He argued that the United States should threaten to pull out of the North American Free Trade Agreement to renegotiate protections for the environment as well as workers' rights.
 But as president, Mr. Obama has not made a priority of renegotiating Nafta or other trade agreements. And he has always indicated that though he favors adjusting some rules, he supports the principle of free trade.
 In the interview, Mr. Obama had few words of comfort for those who may have taken a political risk by voting for the House climate change bill, and no threats for the 44 House Democrats who defied their leadership to oppose it.
 ''I think those 44 Democrats are sensitive to the immediate political climate of uncertainty around this issue,'' Mr. Obama said. ''They've got to run every two years, and I completely understand that.'' 
 Many of the Democrats who voted against the legislation represent districts that rely heavily on coal for electricity and manufacturing for jobs. 
 Mr. Obama said the House bill contained transitional assistance for these regions.
 But he expressed scorn for the Republicans who fought the bill in the House. He noted that some of them had predicted political doom for those who voted for it, recalling the 1993 battle over an energy tax that failed and helped Republicans gain control of the House a year later.
 Those Republicans ''are 16 years behind the times,'' he said, comparing their position to that of Republican leaders in the energy and health care debates of the early Clinton years. 
 ''They're fighting not even the last war,'' he said. ''They're fighting three wars ago.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (79%); INTERVIEWS (79%); WIND ENERGY (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); APPROVALS (78%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); SOLAR ENERGY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (77%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (77%); PROTECTIONISM (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (77%); GLOBAL WARMING (77%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); CLEAN COAL TECHNOLOGY (66%); FINES & PENALTIES (57%); COAL INDUSTRY (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2009



789 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1024 words

HEADLINE: The Dirty War Against Clean Coal

BYLINE: By GREGG EASTERBROOK. 
Gregg Easterbrook is the author of ''The Progress Paradox'' and the forthcoming ''Sonic Boom.''

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
 WHILE President Obama's cap-and-trade proposal to reduce greenhouse gases has been the big topic of recent environmental debate, the White House has also been pushing a futuristic federal project to build a power plant that burns coal without any greenhouse gases. Sounds great, right? Except the idea is a rehash of a proposal that went bust the first time around. 
 More important, the technology already exists to make huge reductions in greenhouse emissions from coal, allowing power companies to begin cutting the carbon footprint of coal today. Instead, advanced-technology coal power sits on the shelf while regulators wait to see what happens with a project that may be just an expensive boondoggle. 
 The big project, a public-private partnership called FutureGen, was first announced by George W. Bush in 2003. Dreading facing up to the problem of greenhouse gases from electricity generation, the Bush White House suggested that decisions should wait while FutureGen developed a coal-fired power with no emissions. FutureGen's administrators spent five years on studies, proposals and studies of studies, but never broke ground for a test installation. 
 Then, in a fit of integrity, the Department of Energy decided the project should be put in Illinois, a Democratic state -- Midwestern coal is high in carbon, making this a logical choice -- rather than in Republican Texas, which the White House preferred. The administration promptly canceled financing for FutureGen. But this month, Energy Secretary Steven Chu announced he was reviving the project, hinting that the ultimate cost may run to billions of dollars.
 FutureGen was better off canceled. Government is good at basic research, poor at commercial-scale applied energy technology. The Synthetic Fuels Corporation, a heavily subsidized attempt begun by the Carter administration to manufacture gasoline substitutes, flopped without ever producing a marketable gallon. The Energy Department has also financed such overpriced, unrealistic projects as the MOD-5B, a wind turbine that weighed 470 tons and stood 20 stories tall: it looked like a gigantic propeller intended to push the earth to a new star system. It ended up being sold for scrap.
 The Obama administration's FutureGen plan calls for yet another year of study before any actual action; test runs may not begin for a decade. No wonder the project's nickname is ''NeverGen.'' This is part of a Washington tradition -- beginning pie-in-the-sky projects that create an excuse to avoid forms of conservation and greenhouse-gas reduction that are possible immediately. Companies including General Electric have already perfected technology to reduce emissions substantially, called ''integrated gasification combined cycle'' power. (Yes, it needs a better name.) 
 Current coal-fired power plants burn pulverized coal using a combustion process that hasn't changed in a half a century. The new approach turns coal into a gas similar to natural gas, which runs through a device similar to a jet engine. Such plants can achieve near-zero emissions of toxic material and chemicals that form smog, and they require about a third less coal than regular coal-fired power plants to produce an equal amount of energy, which means about a third lower greenhouse gases. 
 Beyond that, the promising technology of ''sequestering'' carbon dioxide -- pumping it back into the ground to keep it out of atmosphere -- appears for technical reasons to be impractical for conventional pulverized-coal power plants. But gasification plants have technical characteristics that should make ''sequestration'' of carbon feasible. A gasification power plant with sequestration would have around two-thirds lower greenhouse gases than a conventional coal-fired generating station. 
 The first commercial gasification power plant, designed by General Electric for Duke Energy, is being built in Indiana. Yet, absurdly, most state public-utility commissions have denied requests to construct these environmentally friendly systems. Last year, Virginia denied a major utility's request to build a coal-fired power plant that would have sequestered nearly all its carbon output.
 One reason Virginia gave for the denial was the higher up-front cost of a gasification plant. Yet, once greenhouse gases are regulated (and President Obama's cap-and-trade plan would in effect tax carbon), the economics of gasification plants may become attractive, with low-emission plants costing less to run. 
 Another reason for the denials is that utility commissions are waiting for the outcome of the FutureGen experiment. This is a classic instance of the best being enemy of the good. Rather than starting to cut coal-caused carbon emissions right now, we are waiting to see if a hypothetical system could achieve perfection decades from now. Meanwhile, emissions continue willy-nilly.
 FutureGen is politically appealing: contractors get subsidies, politicians get to hand out money in their districts and astonishing breakthroughs are promised at unspecified future dates. Why aren't progressives fighting for an immediate embrace of gasification power? Much of the environmental movement clings to a fairyland notion that coal combustion can soon be eliminated, and therefore no coal-fired power plant of any kind, even an advanced plant, should be built.
 Reflecting this mindset, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid has said he opposes integrated gasification plants -- only new solar, wind and geothermal facilities should be allowed. Environmentalists who correctly point out there can never be absolutely ''clean coal'' thus end up in the position of opposing coal that's far cleaner than what we are using. 
 Yet coal use is a future certainty. Half of our power comes from coal, versus about 2 percent from solar and wind: in the next few decades, green power simply cannot grow quickly enough to eliminate the need for coal. We have two choices: do nothing and wait for FutureGen while coal-caused carbon emissions continue unabated; or start building improved coal-fired plants that reduce the problem. Which seems more forward-thinking?

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRISTIAN NORTHEAST) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GREENHOUSE GASES (91%); CLEAN COAL TECHNOLOGY (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POWER PLANTS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); WIND ENERGY (78%); COAL GASIFICATION (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT (78%); POWER COGENERATION (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (77%); COMBUSTION TECHNOLOGIES (76%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (73%); POWER & COMMUNICATION SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (72%); WIND POWER PLANTS (72%)

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (51%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (51%); GEC (LSE) (51%); GE (SWX) (51%); GE (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); STEVEN CHU (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (75%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2009



790 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ENTRY LEVEL; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 515 words

HEADLINE: Crash Course In Working A Beat On Wall St.

BYLINE: By CARA BUCKLEY

 BODY:
Matt Egan, 24, has been working for the Fox Business Network since September 2007, mostly covering the stock market. He was born in Colombia, raised in Edison, N.J. A graduate of the College of New Jersey, he won the National Hispanic Recognition Program scholarship, awarded to the top 2 percent of all Hispanic high school students.
 Birthplace: Bogota. I came here when I was a couple months old; my legal parents adopted me. I haven't been back. It's not something I think a lot about. 
 Habla espanol? I actually don't speak Spanish. But I would love to one day. 
 Parents' provenance: My dad's Irish-American; he grew up in Marine Park, Brooklyn. My mother is Polish-American; she's from Queens -- Rego Park.
 Any relation to former Archbishop Edward M. Egan? No. But my dad works for an insurance company that worked with the archdiocese. 
 Getting into writing: I started in high school. I worked for the school paper, writing mostly about sports. I was probably better writing about sports than playing them. I ended up doing journalism at college, and minored in political science. I did internships at community newspapers and freelancing for The Trenton Times, and after graduation started there as a beat writer. 
 Landing at Fox: Ray Hennessey, the director of business news, went to my college, and also wrote for The Trenton Times. I kind of went to the interview not interested in business or TV, but I figured I'd give it a shot. And the interview was amazing. I was one of the first hires for the Web team.
 Early challenges: Getting beyond the businessy terms: derivatives. Mutual funds. Futures. Options contracts. I had no idea about the stock market. I wish I had taken business classes. I bought a business textbook ahead of time. I read that, and started reading The Wall Street Journal every day. We had a month and a half to prep. 
 How caffeinated do you get? I don't drink coffee. I think I'm the only one on the Web team. 
 Daily tasks: I cover the stock market; it's my primary responsibility. I recap why the market is up or, mostly, why it's down. 
 Hardest part of job: Keeping my cool. The stock market tends not to cooperate a lot. If the Dow's up 100 points because an economic report came out, I've got to go back and change what I've just written.
 Are you invested now? Yes, I'm up. I bought in when the market was pretty low in the fall. But it's recovered significantly from the winter. 
 Downtime: Going down to the beach house I rented with friends in Belmar -- it's nothing fancy, but a lot of fun. Taking trips down to the A.C. Watching Mets games. It's the only sport my dad and I agree on. I'm a Jets fan, he's a Giants fan. I'm a Devils fan, he's a Rangers fan. I'm a Nets fan, he's a Knicks fan. He said he never trained me well enough. Or brainwashed me enough. 
 Dream job: Being a Mets beat writer would definitely be up there. 
 Fox News has been accused of bias. Do you agree? It's completely unfair. There's never a time when I'm upset with what we've covered.
 Have you seen Bill O'Reilly? Yes.
 Is he scary? No, but he's really tall. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); INTERVIEWS (87%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (78%); FUTURES (78%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%); WRITERS (72%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (71%); JOURNALISM (71%); RELIGION (68%); MUTUAL FUNDS (63%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (92%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (88%); BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) COLOMBIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2009



791 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: College Loan Payments Will Be Linked to Income

BYLINE: By JONATHAN D. GLATER

 BODY:
For the first time in years, there is good news for college students who borrow to pay for their education. 
 Starting Wednesday, the federal Education Department will begin offering a repayment plan that lets graduates reduce their loan payments, based on their income.
 ''We know today's borrowers are concerned about their ability to repay student loans in the current economic environment,'' Arne Duncan, the education secretary, said in a statement. ''This new plan addresses the issue head-on by giving them the option of a reduced monthly payment tied to their annual income.'' 
 Also on Wednesday, the interest rate on new federal Stafford loans, the most widely used federally guaranteed student loan, will drop to 5.6 percent, from 6.8 percent. By 2012, the rate will fall to 3.4 percent, under a schedule mandated by Congress.
 The changes come as student borrowers face a difficult job environment and after many families have found it harder or impossible to use home equity loans to pay for college. Since the credit crisis, it has also become more difficult and more costly to obtain private student loans, which are not guaranteed by the government and which typically carry variable interest rates determined by borrowers' credit histories.
 ''These benefits are guaranteed, no matter what happens in our economy, and are kicking in at exactly the right time for millions of Americans,'' said Representative George Miller, Democrat of California and chairman of the House education committee.
 While the interest rate cut applies to new loans, the new repayment option is available to borrowers who took out federal loans or who used a federal consolidation loan to combine their higher-education debts. 
 The extended payment program, called ''income-based repayment,'' limits what borrowers have to pay to 15 percent of the difference between their gross income and 150 percent of federal poverty guidelines. After borrowers make payments on loans for 25 years, the balance is forgiven. (The Education Department already offered an ''income-contingent'' repayment plan, which was similar, but less generous.)
 ''These programs are such an enormous victory,'' said Christine Lindstrom, director of the higher-education access program at U.S. PIRG, the consumer advocacy group. ''It enables all borrowers to be able to face their life circumstances and know there is some flexibility and responsiveness based on what life throws their way.''
 To help borrowers understand the program, the Education Department has set up a Web site with a calculator to determine monthly payments based on income and family size. 
 The extended payment plan is intended to work with another program that forgives federal loans taken out by people working in public interest jobs. If borrowers make payments under the income-based plan, the balance on their loans is forgiven after 10 years.
 There is a catch, though. To participate in the program, borrowers must shift their loans into the federal Direct Loan program, in which the government extends credit directly. The forgiveness is not available for loans made by banks or other loan companies, like Citigroup or Sallie Mae. 
 The definition of public service under the forgiveness program is broad. Jobs in government, public schools or colleges, nonprofit organizations, public interest law, early childhood education, public health or public libraries all could qualify, according to the Education Department. 
 The forgiveness benefit could lead to even greater interest in public service jobs, which are already drawing more applicants. For example, in the 2008-9 academic year, more people than ever applied to Teach for America -- 40 percent more than the year before, said Kerci Marcello Stroud, a spokeswoman. 
 The earliest anyone working in public service could see any benefit from the forgiveness program is 2017, because the program began in 2007. So someone who started teaching in 2005, for example, would not get credit toward the 10-year period for working in 2005 and 2006.
 Due to the length of the program, people interested in participating will have to be careful to document their public interest employment and to make sure they have the right kind of loans. Neither of the new programs help with repayment of private loans made by banks or other lenders.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 1, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Tuesday about a new student loan repayment plan by the Education Department that lets graduates reduce their loan payments based on their income misstated the current interest rate on federal subsidized Stafford loans. It is 6 percent -- not 6.8 percent, the rate for unsubsidized loans.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT LOANS (93%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (92%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); PERSONAL DEBT (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (73%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (64%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (84%)

PERSON: ARNE DUNCAN (58%); GEORGE MILLER (US REPRESENTATIVE) (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2009



792 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 954 words

HEADLINE: Waiting to See Madoff, an Angry Crowd Is Disappointed

BYLINE: By ZACHERY KOUWE

 BODY:
''How much did you lose?''
 ''How long will he get?''
 ''Will he be handcuffed?'' 
 The swarms of reporters, cameramen, victims and gawkers began gathering outside a federal courthouse in Manhattan early Monday morning to catch one last glimpse of the man who seemed to define an era of unprecedented greed and fraud on Wall Street.
 In reality, they had been waiting for this moment since March, when Bernard L. Madoff admitted that he had run a vast Ponzi scheme that robbed thousands of people of their life savings. 
 ''We're hoping for a big sentence only as a deterrent,'' Cynthia Friedman, a victim of Mr. Madoff's fraud, told a crowd of reporters before his sentence was handed down. Mrs. Friedman and her husband, Richard, who lost their life savings with Mr. Madoff, spent more than an hour doing interviews with media outlets.
 But if this was a media circus, a Wall Street version of the O. J. Simpson case, its center-ring star was nowhere in sight. Mr. Madoff was in a courtroom inside, having been whisked to the defendant's table through an underground passageway. In the end, the throng was left without even a glimpse of Mr. Madoff, whose fate was sealed at 11:32 a.m. with a sentence of 150 years in prison. 
 And while they may have been disappointed that their villain was not brought into plain view, when the decision was announced, the frenzy outside Federal District Court on Worth Street surged anew as the verdict flashed across the world -- in Chinese, French, German, Italian, Russian, Spanish and more.
 The word spread just as quickly among those crowding the front of the courthouse. Some typed text messages and placed calls to their friends. Photographers and television crews swarmed. Television producers pounced on the approximately two dozen victims who had managed to make their way into Mr. Madoff's presence inside the courtroom Monday, as they began to emerge from the building. 
 ''I was very surprised,'' Dominic Ambrosino told reporters outside the court. ''It felt good.'' 
 ''I told the judge that when Bernard Madoff leaves prison, which means after his death, that he will then go down to the depths of hell where he'll join those other people who are in the mouths of Satan,'' Burt Ross, the former mayor of Fort Lee, N.J., who lost $5 million with Mr. Madoff, told the crowded press corps outside the courthouse. 
 Mr. Madoff ''discarded me like road kill,'' said Miriam Siegman of Stamford, Conn., who spoke at the hearing. 
 Another woman who had lost money in the scam, who was supporting herself on a rolling cart, nearly fainted as she was surrounded by reporters peppering her with questions.
 Amid the whirl, tourists snapped photos with cellphones. Police tried to corral people who had spilled onto the street. A man with statue of a caged bear and a name tag reading ''Bernard Madoff'' hanging from its neck sat on a cart outside the courthouse. Several sketch artists sold paintings and drawings of Mr. Madoff in court, his hands in a prayer position as he sat at a desk facing Judge Denny Chin. 
 There was, however, no sign of the very wealthy investors who lost billions of dollars in the scam. The only celebrity sighting occurred when Michael Imperioli from ''The Sopranos'' appeared among the crowd of onlookers outside the courthouse.
 Mr. Imperioli said he was not a victim of Mr. Madoff, but was conducting research for a forthcoming project. 
 ''It was surprising how few victims were standing outside the courthouse; it was all press,'' said Jennifer Rhodes, who lives nearby and knows several victims of Mr. Madoff's scheme. ''There is a great deal of shame felt when one is a victim of a crime.'' 
 While pleased with verdict, most of the victims who appeared at the scene turned their attention to how much could be recovered from what remained of Mr. Madoff's assets.
 Several broke away to start their own rally a few blocks from the courthouse at Foley Square, against the backdrop of 60-foot sculpture called ''Triumph of the Human Spirit'' by Lorenzo Price. Gathering in front of about 100 reporters who trailed them, their anger had shifted from Mr. Madoff's actions to the Securities and Exchange Commission, which they criticized for missing warning signs of the fraud. 
 They also accused Irving H. Picard, the court-appointed trustee charged with gathering what is left of Mr. Madoff's assets, of flouting the laws by not honoring their claims with the Securities Investor Protection Corporation, which insures customers when brokerage firms fail.
 ''SEC FAILED US,'' was emblazoned on one participant's T-shirt. Others held signs, reading ''SIPC = SCAM.'' 
 ''The S.E.C. has done nothing to enforce the Securities Investor Protection Corp.,'' said Helen Davis Chaitman, a retiree who spoke at the rally. Ms. Chaitman is leading a group of Madoff victims who have sued Mr. Picard to change the way he calculates claims. 
 ''SIPC is a scam,'' said Stanley Hirschhorn, a Madoff victim who traveled from Manalapan, N.J., with his wife and daughter for the sentencing. ''Goldman Sachs pays $150 a year in fees to SIPC and if one day they were discovered to be running a $2 billion Ponzi scheme, there wouldn't be enough to reimburse everyone.''
 ''No one can trust the honesty of the securities industry,'' Ms. Chaitman added later. ''We have learned that from Madoff, from Stanford and from the global economic collapse caused by the unremitting greed of Wall Street,'' she said, referring to R. Allen Stanford, the Texas billionaire who is involved in his own legal battle amid accusations by the S.E.C. that he operated a big Ponzi scheme. 
 ''From our perspective, the S.E.C. is a waste of taxpayer dollars,'' her husband chimed in. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Miriam Siegman, a victim of Bernard L. Madoff's Ponzi scheme who spoke at his sentencing, said he had discarded her like ''road kill.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY JENN ACKERMAN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B1)
Victims of Bernard L. Madoff protested outside the courthouse where he was sentenced Monday, holding signs that criticized securities regulators and other oversight entities.
 ''I told the judge that when Bernard Madoff leaves prison, which means after his death, that he will then go down to the depths of hell,'' said Burt Ross, who lost $5 million with Mr. Madoff. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B5) CHART: THE OTHER PLAYERS: Here is a look at the status of other key figures in the Bernard L. Madoff case. (pg.B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SENTENCING (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); NEWS REPORTING (77%); PONZI SCHEMES (76%); JAIL SENTENCING (74%); VERDICTS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); TEXT MESSAGING (50%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (70%); CONNECTICUT, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2009



793 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 424 words

HEADLINE: S.&P. 500 Stays on Track For a Strong Quarter

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Markets rose as higher oil prices lifted energy shares and speculation grew that the recession was easing. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index extended its best quarterly rally since 1998 as investors remained optimistic, analysts said. 
 Exxon Mobil gained 2.2 percent as crude oil climbed above $71 a barrel. Microsoft rose 2.2 percent after Deutsche Bank raised its price estimate for the company. 
 The S.& P. 500 increased 0.91 percent, or 8.33 points, to 927.23. The index is up 16 percent in the second quarter, which ends Tuesday. The Dow Jones industrial average added 90.99 points, or 1.08 percent, to close at 8,529.38. The Nasdaq composite index gained 0.32 percent, or 5.84 points, to 1,844.06.
 Stocks rallied ahead of reports that economists estimate will show that unemployment in the United States probably rose at a slower pace, and the manufacturing slump eased this month. 
 ''Some investors are assuming that we'll see some economic numbers that may meet or exceed expectations this week,'' said David Heupel, a portfolio manager at Thrivent Financial for Lutherans, a firm based in Minneapolis. ''Whenever you've got some potential or existing data that shows that things are getting less bad, it forces some of the money on the sidelines to be put to work.''
 According to a Bloomberg survey, economists estimate that the jobless rate increased 0.2 percentage point to 9.6 percent. A survey of purchasing managers may show manufacturing shrank at the slowest pace in 10 months.
 ''It's a short but pretty busy week in terms of economic data,'' said Peter Jankovskis, of OakBrook Investments in Lisle, Ill. 
 Ford gained 3 percent to $5.78 after reporting that its June sales would be the lowest decline of any major company in the industry.
 Oil rose $2.33, to $71.49 in New York on speculation for a rise in demand. 
 Some economists said the rise in stocks was a result of the second quarter coming to an end.
 ''Some people are buying shares of groups that have done very well, like financials,'' said James Paulsen, chief investment strategist at Wells Capital Management in Minneapolis. ''We're heading for strong quarterly gains, and some investors may not want to show that they're sitting there with so many defensive names in their portfolios.''
 The Treasury's 10-year note rose 15/32, to 97 2/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 3.48 percent, from 3.54 percent late Friday.
 Following are the results of Monday's Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills:

GRAPHIC: CHART: THE DOW MINUTE-BY-MINUTE: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (99%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (86%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (79%); AUCTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%)

COMPANY: THRIVENT FINANCIAL FOR LUTHERANS (68%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (58%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (57%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%); DEUT (JSE) (57%); DBK (FRA) (57%); DBK (BIT) (57%); DBETN (JSE) (57%); DBA (ASX) (57%); DB (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (68%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (68%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2009



794 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 759 words

HEADLINE: Iceland's Program For a Fiscal Cure

BYLINE: By ROB COX

 BODY:
At one end of Laugavegur, Reykjavik's main shopping street, Icelanders jostle in the aisles of a Bonus discount grocery to fill their baskets with ham, dried codfish and other staples. A mile up the road, in an office tower that also houses the stock market, sits an Apple Store that is perhaps the only one of its kind: except for a salesman, it is completely empty. 
 This neatly illustrates the state of play in Iceland eight months after it essentially went bust. No country embraced the excesses of the credit bubble as zealously as this North Atlantic island nation of about 310,000 people. As a result, it's hard to find a place that's suffering the deprivations of the crisis to the same degree. 
 It's not just that iPods are off the shopping list in favor of processed pork. The nation is deeply indebted, consumer spending is in free fall, its banks are ruined and capital controls restrict the flow of money outside the country. 
 As hard as Icelanders must toil to fulfill the demands of their financial rescuers -- including $5 billion from the International Monetary Fund and a phalanx of Nordic neighbors -- don't cry for them. Iceland, unlike many other nations that went mad for credit, still has many things going for it: a low average age of 37, highly educated workers, a nearly positive birthrate, overfinanced pension funds and abundant natural resources. 
 That said, statistics paint the remarkable fiscal challenge Iceland faces. The central bank estimates four out of 10 households took out loans denominated in foreign currencies to buy cars. And 80 percent of Icelandic homes have mortgages with payments either directly linked to inflation or denominated in foreign currencies. 
 When the krona was soaring this might have seemed rational. The strong currency, buoyed by artificially high official interest rates, allowed hot money to flow over Iceland like the Gulf Stream that keeps the country temperate. Everyone from American hedge fund managers to Austrian dentists could borrow cheaply at home, or in low-rate currencies like the Japanese yen, and buy higher-yielding Icelandic paper.
 When this vast ''carry trade'' ended, though, the currency crashed and the cost of servicing all those liabilities spiked. So did the prices of imports, which led to inflation. Because many Icelandic mortgages carry payments linked to consumer prices, one in six households now face mortgage payments equal to 60 percent or more of their take-home pay. 
 Iceland's banks also got into this game, rolling in easy money they then lent to entrepreneurs known locally as ''business Vikings.'' Soaring stock prices also encouraged them to expand their businesses abroad. At its peak, the Reykjavik market's capitalization rose to more than 250 percent of gross domestic product -- making it the most highly valued in the world. Today it's around 16 percent.
 Now it's up to the government, and the majority of its citizens, to avoid the bankruptcies suffered by Iceland's banks and business borrowers. Fiscally speaking, this means Iceland must go back in time: under the agreement it reached with the I.M.F., it must gradually lift capital controls, tighten up its monetary policy and return to a current account surplus by 2013. This won't be an easy task. Iceland is expected to have debt equal to 120 percent of its 14 billion euros of G.D.P. and a budget deficit of about 13 percent of output this year. 
 And that's where the hard work comes in. The country's leaders are fostering export-oriented businesses like fisheries, geothermal energy, tourism and technology. A few more British bachelor parties, cod exports and aluminum smelters will help bring in the hard currency the country needs to pay back its foreign debts.
 But Iceland also seems to realize that sacrifice will be necessary to restore financial health. Indeed, on Monday, Iceland's Parliament passed a bill so filled with tax increases it would make even the most spendthrift politician in Washington wince. Equally, the bill's corresponding spending cuts were deep enough to embarrass the stingiest fiscal conservatives.
 Creativity, hard work and belt-tightening should help Iceland emerge as a stronger economy. Other indebted developed nations, still stinging from the credit crisis, like the idea of innovation. But so far, few have shown themselves keen to adopt the tougher parts of a recovery plan like Iceland's. They might do well to pay more attention. 
 ROB COX
 For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Despite its financial woes, Iceland is still a tourist destination. Above, bathers soaking in the Blue Lagoon near Reykjavik, a hot-spring pool said to have health benefits. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OLIVIER MORIN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (75%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (73%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); PENSION FUNDS (71%); IMPORT TRADE (71%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (69%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (69%); NATURAL RESOURCES (68%); INTEREST RATES (68%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); HEDGE FUNDS (66%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (64%); MORTGAGE LOANS (63%); IMPORT PRICES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: REYKJAVIK, ICELAND (91%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (88%) ICELAND (97%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2009



795 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1620 words

HEADLINE: Scientist Tries to Connect Migration Dots of Ancient Southwest

BYLINE: By GEORGE JOHNSON

DATELINE: CASAS GRANDES, Mexico 

 BODY:
From the sky, the Mound of the Cross at Paquime, a 14th-century ruin in the Mexican state of Chihuahua, looks like a compass rose -- the roundish emblem indicating the cardinal directions on a map. About 30 feet in diameter and molded from compacted earth and rock taken near the banks of the Casas Grandes River, the crisscross arms point to four circular platforms. They might as well be labeled N, S, E and W.
 ''It's a hell of a long way from here to Chaco,'' says Steve Lekson, an archaeologist from the University of Colorado, as he sights along the north-south spoke of the cross. Follow his gaze 400 miles north and you reach Chaco Canyon in northwestern New Mexico, a major cultural center occupied from about A.D. 900 to A.D. 1150 by the pueblo people known as Anasazi. Despite the distance, Dr. Lekson believes the two sites were linked by an ancient pattern of migration and a common set of religious beliefs.
But don't stop at Chaco. Continue about 60 miles northward along the same straight line and you come to another Anasazi center called Aztec Ruins. For Dr. Lekson the alignment must be more than a coincidence. 
 A decade ago in ''The Chaco Meridian: Centers of Political Power in the Ancient Southwest,'' he argued that for centuries the Anasazi leaders, reckoning by the stars, aligned their principal settlements along this north-south axis -- the 108th meridian of longitude. In an article this year for Archaeology magazine, he added two older ruins to the trajectory: Shabik'eschee, south of Chaco, and Sacred Ridge, north of Aztec. Each in its time was the regional focus of economic and political power, and each lies along the meridian. As one site was abandoned, because of drought, violence, environmental degradation -- the reasons are obscure -- the leaders led an exodus to a new location: sometimes north, sometimes south, but hewing as closely as they could to the 108th meridian.
 ''I think the reason is ideological,'' Dr. Lekson said on a recent visit to Paquime. ''The cultural response to something not working is to move north, and when that doesn't work you move south. And then you move north again and then you move south again, and then you finally say the hell with it, I'm out of here, and you go down to Chihuahua.''
 For many of Dr. Lekson's colleagues that is an awfully big leap. With all the ambiguities involved in interpreting patterns of dirt and rock -- the Anasazi left no written history -- archaeologists have been more comfortable focusing on a particular culture or a particular ruin. Dr. Lekson is constantly reaching -- some say overreaching -- to make connections between isolated islands of thought. Scheduled for publication this summer, his new book, ''A History of the Ancient Southwest,'' will go even further, offering a kind of unified theory of the Native American population movements that have puzzled Southwest archaeologists for many years.
 ''Steve has definitely been the one who has dragged us kicking and screaming into 'big picture' archaeology,'' said William D. Lipe, emeritus professor of archaeology at Washington State University. ''In many ways, Steve's ideas and publications have driven much of the intellectual agenda for Southwestern archaeology over the last 20 or more years.'' That does not mean, Dr. Lipe added, that he buys the idea of the Chaco meridian.
 On a walk around Paquime, Dr. Lekson points out his evidence. Casas Grandes, the Spanish name for the ruins, means ''big houses,'' and the multistory structures remind him of the palatial ''great houses'' at Chaco and Aztec. Inside the structures, people moved from room to room through T-shaped passages like those at Anasazi sites. At the House of the Pillars, a row of three colonnades formed a grand entranceway. ''No one around here had colonnades except at Chaco,'' Dr. Lekson says. A coincidence or a connection?
 Paquime also hints at other influences. Ball courts, used for ceremonial games, are typical of those found in southern Mexico and Central America. Effigy mounds, in which dirt was shaped to form birds and other figures, resemble those built long ago by Native Americans in the Ohio Valley. A long sinuous row of mud and stone called the Mound of the Serpent seems to undulate like a snake.
 ''This thing runs north and south,'' Dr. Lekson says. ''I love it.'' He points toward a prominent hill on the horizon called Cerro de Moctezuma. Barely visible on its summit are the remains of a centuries-old stone watchtower. Nearby, he says, is another snakelike mound running north and south.
 ''It's not as easy to see,'' he says. ''You have to believe it.''
 There is plenty of evidence that ancient Americans were keenly aware of the cardinal directions. Watch the night sky long enough and it becomes clear that there is one star that does not move while the others circle around it: the north star or Polaris. Motivated perhaps by this knowledge, some ceremonial structures at Chaco are aligned on north-south axes, and the earthen walls at Paquime zig and zag as though, Dr. Lekson says, they were ''laid out on giant graph paper or with the old children's toy Etch A Sketch.'' Throughout the Southwest, modern pueblo religions typically include four sacred mountains, one for each direction, and pueblo people tell stories of ancestors moving south because of bad things that happened in the north.
 If these people had been ''meridian compulsive,'' as Dr. Lekson puts it, they had the astronomical knowledge to plot and follow a long straight line. ''Lining things up is not an issue,'' he says. ''The question is why.''
 ''Chaco Meridian'' came with a warning: ''This book is not for the faint of heart, or for neophytes. If you are a practicing Southwestern archaeologist with hypertension problems, stop. Read something safe.'' Few of Dr. Lekson's colleagues heeded the advice.
 ''Steve is possibly the best writer in Southwest archaeology,'' said David Phillips, curator of archaeology at the Maxwell Museum of Anthropology at the University of New Mexico. ''Our academic writing has this inherent gift of taking something interesting and making it dull and boring. And Steve doesn't have that problem. He thinks outside the box, and the rest of us comb through his ideas.''
 ''Having said all that,'' Dr. Phillips added, ''I personally think that the Chaco meridian is a crock.'' 
 In a vivisection of the theory, available online, Dr. Phillips laid out his objections. To begin with, the meridian is not exactly a straight line: if you zoom in, there are deviations of a few miles. Dr. Phillips also noted overlaps in the chronology of the rise and fall of the settlements. For example, Aztec, depicted in Dr. Lekson's book as the last outpost before the southward migration, was still occupied when Paquime began.
 In a good-natured rejoinder, Dr. Lekson answered these and other points. It is no surprise, he said, that the meridian ''wobbles.'' Driven by the north-south compulsion, the leaders ''did the best they could, lacking chronometers and GPS.'' He also disagreed that the overlapping timeline was a problem: ''If I were the High Panjandrum, I'd surely send a gang ahead to build a comfortable palace before I dragged my Royal Self over hill and dale to the new Pleasure Dome in Xanadu.''
 Debates like this can go on forever. Where the two archaeologists fundamentally disagree is over how a theory should be constructed. To Dr. Phillips, Dr. Lekson is arguing more like a lawyer than a scientist -- marshaling corroborating evidence for what he already has decided is true.
 ''Anyone can take any position and find evidence,'' Dr. Phillips said. ''Done properly, science means that you stop yourself and figure out what the opposite is -- the null hypothesis -- and you prove the null hypothesis couldn't possibly be true. By process of elimination, your desired outcome becomes more plausible. This gets back to Karl Popper. You can only falsify.''
 But Dr. Lekson insists that archaeology can advance only by pushing beyond the Popperian ideal, trying to make sense of all the data with plausible accounts of what was happening historically in the ancient Southwest.
 ''We were trained to treat ancient Pueblo societies like cultures in laboratory petri dishes,'' he recently wrote. ''Sprinkle the right amount of rainfall on the proper soil and up popped pueblos.'' What has been neglected, he says, is an appreciation for the unquantifiable.
 ''Unless you understand the broad outlines of the story -- the history,'' he says, -- the questions you are asking could be pointless. ''You may be answering them very, very nicely and staying close to the data and doing good conservative science, but you could be asking the wrong questions and wasting a lot of money and time doing it.''
 With its grand sweep, the new book, ''History of the Ancient Southwest,'' is vintage Lekson, and there is no reason to think the book will be any less controversial than the meridian theory, which forms but one thread of the saga. 
 ''Lots of people could do what I'm doing, but they are choosing not to,'' Dr. Lekson said late one afternoon at Paquime. ''It's professionally dangerous to some extent.'' As he cracked open a Tecate, he described his frustrations at the slow pace of the field.
 ''The Southwest is one of the most heavily studied archaeological regions in the world, bar none except maybe downtown Athens,'' he said. ''Per square mile, probably more money and time and energy and thought have been invested than anywhere else. If we can't take a stab now and try to put everything together, we should probably just hang up our trowels and say, 'Let's quit. We're not learning anything. We're just spinning our wheels.' '' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: 'BIG PICTURE' ARCHAEOLOGY: Steve Lekson sees ties between places like Chaco Canyon, above, and other sites that many experts are not ready to accept. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NEW MEXICO DEPARTMENT OF TOURISM, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.D1)
ALL IN A ROW: The maze of earthen buildings in Mexico known as Casas Grandes, or Paquime, above, in a 1995 photo. Steve Lekson, below at Chimney Rock, Colo., has a theory tying Casas Grandes to Chaco Canyon and Aztec Ruins. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEVE LEKSON, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS
 GEORGE JOHNSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.D7) MAP Map details Sacred Ridge, Aztec Ruins, Chaco Canyon and Shabik'eschee, and Santa Few, New Mexico (pg.D7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); ARCHAEOLOGY (89%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (89%); HISTORY (78%); RELIGION (67%); RELOCATIONS (67%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW MEXICO, USA (93%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); MEXICO (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2009



796 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 613 words

HEADLINE: Knicks' Free-Agent Focus Likely to Be on Their Own

BYLINE: By HOWARD BECK

 BODY:
The N.B.A. free-agent season is ruled by a single cliche: the midnight phone call. Teams and players are permitted to talk the moment July 1 arrives -- 12:01 a.m. Eastern, give or take a few seconds -- and so a ritual was born.
 It is considered good form to call a coveted free agent as soon as possible. So Donnie Walsh, the Knicks' president, will surely reach out to the representatives for David Lee and Nate Robinson late Tuesday night, whether the gesture is necessary or not. 
 ''Do you really want me to call you at 12:01?'' Walsh said last week with a chuckle. ''Is that important to the guy? If it's important, I'll call at 12:01.''
 The Knicks' priorities are clear. They badly want to re-sign Lee, their energetic rebounding machine. They will make an effort to keep Robinson, their explosive scoring guard. They will have exploratory conversations with a few free agents, starting with Jason Kidd.
 But the overriding agenda has not changed. The Knicks are building toward July 1, 2010, when LeBron James is expected to hit the market. So Walsh will spend another summer balancing current needs against future flexibility.
 ''I'm always looking at 2010,'' Walsh said, ''because I do want to be in the free-agent market in a big way.''
 What that means to Lee and Robinson, who are restricted free agents, is not clear. Walsh has a dollar value in mind for each, and the right to match any offer they receive.
 Lee will be the greater commodity. He led the N.B.A. last season in double-doubles, with 65, and averaged career bests in scoring (16 points a game) and rebounding (11.7). He will most likely draw interest from at least three of the teams with major salary cap space -- Detroit, Oklahoma City and Portland.
 Robinson became one of the league's top sixth men, averaging a career-high 17.2 points and 4.1 assists. His showmanship and flair also made Robinson one of the most marketable players in the league, which could make him attractive to a number of box office-conscious teams.
 The Knicks were unwilling to meet the demands of each player last summer, when Lee was seeking about $10 million a year and Robinson about $6 million. The poor economy and a tight market -- only four teams have major cap space -- should work in the Knicks' favor.
 There are other options for all parties. Robinson, for instance, could simply accept the Knicks' qualifying offer ($2.9 million), play out the season and become an unrestricted free agent next summer, when at least a dozen teams will have major cap space. If Lee's price is too high, the Knicks could arrange a sign-and-trade deal, although they are notoriously difficult to execute.
 No signings or trades can be made official until the N.B.A.'s annual moratorium ends, on July 8. Teams and players often come to terms during the moratorium, however, so the Knicks could strike a deal any time in the next week.
 The Knicks also have a strong interest in Kidd, the 36-year-old Dallas Mavericks point guard and former Nets star. Kidd, who still has an off-season home in New York, could be tempted. The Knicks have only the midlevel exception (about $5.6 million) to spend, however, and they will probably offer only a one-year deal. The Mavericks could easily top that, so the flirtation may be brief.
 Indeed, with the Knicks reluctant to tie up their payroll beyond next season, it is unlikely they will add any significant free agents this summer. 
 The Knicks could have shed about $20.5 million in payroll had Al Harrington and Eddy Curry declined contract options for next season, but both have elected to return. A letter from Harrington making his decision official is expected Tuesday afternoon.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jason Kidd is one of the free agents the Knicks will have exploratory conversations with, although he is not likely to sign.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RONALD MARTINEZ/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (94%)

PERSON: LEBRON JAMES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (67%) OKLAHOMA, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2009



797 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1081 words

HEADLINE: For Employers, Ruling Offers Little Guidance on How to Make Their Hiring Fair

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE; Contributing reporting were Robbie Brown in Atlanta; A. G. Sulzberger and Lynnley Browning in New Haven; Karen Ann Cullotta in Chicago; and Carmen Gentile in Miami.

 BODY:
In ruling for a group of white firefighters in New Haven on Monday, the Supreme Court tried to address a damned-if-you-do, damned-if-you-don't quandary for many cities and other employers: what they should do when an employment test yields results that overwhelmingly favor whites.
 But many legal experts said that instead of setting forth clear new rules, the court's decision left things as muddled as ever for the nation's employers -- and seemed to ensure much more litigation over the explosive issue of employment discrimination. 
 ''We don't see clear, bright-line guidance here,'' said Lars Etzkorn, a program director with the National League of Cities. ''This is going to be good for employment lawyers.''
 The 5-to-4 ruling applies largely to public-sector hiring and to civil service exams, but could also affect private employers that use tests or other screening methods. The court said that if an employer used a hiring or promotion test, it generally had to accept the test's results -- unless the employer had strong evidence the test was flawed and improperly favored a particular group.
 With the court's ruling making it harder for cities and other employers to throw out tests they conclude are unfair, employers are expected to work harder to make sure their written tests -- indeed their entire selection process -- are fair.
 ''The ruling gives employers less flexibility to change the selection process once it's established,'' said Katharine Parker, a lawyer with Proskauer Rose who is chairwoman of the Labor and Employment Committee of the New York City Bar Association. ''As a result, employers will want to try to establish bulletproof selection criteria.''
 Some may abandon written tests altogether.
 To avoid charges of discrimination, many cities have already been moving away from such tests in favor of other methods of hiring and promoting employees in places like fire and police departments. They say written tests are often not the best way to determine who can perform best.
 In New Haven, city officials, having concluded that their written test was flawed, said there was another, trusted method to select firefighting lieutenants and captains that posed less of a disadvantage to blacks and Hispanics. That method relies largely on assessment centers where applicants are evaluated in simulated real-life situations to see how they would handle them.
 Supporters of the idea say assessment centers do far better than written exams in measuring leadership and communications skills and an applicant's ability to handle emergencies.
 Bridgeport, Conn., uses that approach, and its ranks of fire lieutenants and captains are, unlike New Haven's, largely proportionate to the city's black and Hispanic populations.
 ''I think we will see greater use of assessment centers,'' said Matthew Colangelo, director of the economic justice program of the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund. ''New Haven is a bit of an outlier in using an antiquated method of measuring leadership. Most cities have long since realized that a pencil and paper test, which largely measures memorization, is not the best way to identify who will be the best leader.''
 Both the Supreme Court majority and the dissenters made clear that employers should continue voluntary efforts to comply with fair employment laws and to ensure that their tests neither discriminate nor ask questions that are irrelevant to job qualifications. And many city officials said Monday that they already did just that.
 In Little Rock, Ark., the city attorney, Thomas M. Carpenter, predicted that the Supreme Court ruling would not have a major impact in his city. ''Local governments take great care to make sure these tests are race-neutral and gender-neutral,'' Mr. Carpenter said. ''How you do on the test is how you do on the test.''
 Melinda B. Livingston, the state examiner for Louisiana's fire and police civil service system, said 6,000 people were tested each year for hiring and promotion in those fields. ''If you do everything you can to manage adverse impact up front, this should not be a problem,'' Ms. Livingston said.
 Often, she said, there are differences among races in the results. She said those differences might result from differences in educational opportunities, upbringing or other factors. 
 ''Whatever causes this difference, we focus ultimately on what the needs of the job are,'' Ms. Livingston said.
 Charles Fletcher, the city attorney in Tampa, Fla., said the ruling put his city in a difficult spot. 
 ''If we do get results that suggest there is a bias in the test, how we handle those would be much more difficult,'' Mr. Fletcher said. ''You've kind of got the local government between a rock and a hard place when there's an issue with a test.''
 In New Haven, supporters of the white firefighters applauded the ruling, while minority firefighters did not hide their dismay.
 Matthew Marcarelli, a white lieutenant who qualified as a captain on the test, said there had been lingering racial tension at the department. ''Now that the highest court in the land has ruled,'' Mr. Marcarelli said, ''hopefully that will put a lot of this to bed.''
 Gary Tinney, the president of the Firebirds, the black firefighters' association, said black firefighters would sue if the old promotion test was certified. Mr. Tinney said the ruling ''definitely will have an adverse effect not only on promotion, but hiring policies.''
 Mayor John DeStefano Jr. said at a news conference that the court's rulings had for some time been moving away from reasonable efforts to remedy discrimination. 
 ''I have no doubt that the firefighters who brought the lawsuit genuinely felt that they had done nothing wrong, and that they were egregiously wronged,'' Mr. DeStefano said. ''I also have no doubt that there is another group of firefighters today who feel that the rules are constantly stacked against them. And that when they finally do start to get ahead, the rules get changed.''
 Several legal experts said it might be harder for cities and other employers to determine when they had a ''strong basis of evidence'' for discarding a test, the standard the court imposed on Monday, compared with the prior standard of having a ''good-faith basis.''
 All this could mean more litigation.
 ''It certainly raises the potential for delays in filling key public safety positions because of the potential for endless court review of hiring decisions,'' Mr. Etzkorn said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: At different times, Mayor John DeStefano Jr. of New Haven said, black and white firefighters have both felt wronged. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER CAPOZZIELLO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECRUITMENT & HIRING (91%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); DISCRIMINATION (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (77%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); RACE & RACISM (75%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (73%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (72%); POLICE FORCES (68%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (66%)

COMPANY: PROSKAUER ROSE LLP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL LEAGUE OF CITIES (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (57%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2009



798 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1276 words

HEADLINE: Iran's Guardian Council Certifies Ahmadinejad Election Victory

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SLACKMAN; Mona El-Naggar contributed reporting from Cairo.

DATELINE: CAIRO 

 BODY:
The powerful Guardian Council touched off scattered protests in Tehran Monday night when it formally certified the re-election of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad to a second four-year term, saying there was no validity to charges of voting fraud. 
 As the certification was announced, security and militia forces flooded the streets, and protesters who were already out marching down Tehran's central avenue, Vali Asr, broke into furious chants. The marchers were quickly dispersed, but other Iranians, urged by opposition Web sites, went to their rooftops to yell ''God is great!'' in a show of defiance.
 Ayatollah Ahmad Jannati, the Guardian Council's secretary, sent a letter to the interior minister saying the panel had approved the election after a partial recount, according to state television. 
 ''The Guardian Council, by reviewing the issues in many meetings and not considering the complaints and protest as valid, verifies the 10th presidential election,'' Ayatollah Jannati wrote. The letter made scant mention of the sweeping public anger and accusations of fraud. 
 Earlier in the day, apparently in an attempt to create a semblance of fairness, state television said the Guardian Council had begun a random recount of 10 percent of the ballots in Tehran's 22 electoral districts and in some provinces. The recount only aroused new skepticism, however, when the official news agency, IRNA, said that in one district, Mr. Ahmadinejad won even more votes than he had in the first count.
 Opposition candidates had refused to participate in the review by sending representatives, saying that the election should be annulled because of widespread fraud.
 ''There is a serious crisis of confidence and danger between the state and a large section of the population,'' said Paul Salem, director of the Carnegie Middle East Center in Beirut. ''I think this anger and discontent right now might have been managed and controlled, it might not erupt again in the next two days or week. But it has not been resolved.''
 ''It is a divided country now,'' said an Iranian political analyst who would speak only anonymously to avoid retribution. ''We have two completely different world views. Ultimately, it is the competition between tradition and modernity.''
 Speaking to reporters in Washington on Monday, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton said the Iranian government was facing an enormous credibility gap over the election, something the day's events in Iran did little to address. ''I don't think that's going to disappear by any finding of a limited review of a relatively small number of ballots,'' she said.
 Asked whether the United States would recognize Mr. Ahmadinejad as Iran's president, she said only, ''We're going to take this a day at a time.''
 The decision to certify the election seemed to reflect a growing split among the Iranian leadership about how to respond to a nation that has been left badly scarred after widespread protests, and a violent government crackdown that left at least 17 dead and hundreds more injured, hospitalized and jailed. 
 One group of officials under the supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, and Mr. Ahmadinejad appeared to be trying to resolve the internal dispute by shifting some blame to foreign powers, particularly Britain, and by continuing reliance on the hammer-fisted policy of dispatching the police and militia members to beat protesters. 
 But there appear to be a growing number of officials and clerics who are deeply concerned about the unrest. On Monday, the National Security and Foreign Policy Commission of Parliament was scheduled to visit the holy city of Qum to meet with two grand ayatollahs. A day earlier it met with two former presidents, Mohammad Khatami and Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, in an effort to ease the strains that have developed since the June 12 election. The speaker of Parliament, Ali Larijani, a former nuclear negotiator, has emerged as a powerful opponent of Mr. Ahmadinejad.
 It is not clear how far those seeking some kind of reconciliation will be able to push their drive, as the current hard-line leadership of Mr. Ahmadinejad and Ayatollah Khamenei has continued to lash out at the opposition and insist that Iran's troubles are a result of meddling by foreign powers. 
 The nation's intelligence chief charged that the protests were inspired by Western and ''Zionist'' forces, and Mr. Ahmadinejad called Monday for an investigation into the shooting of Neda Agha-Soltan, the young protester who became a symbol when a video of her dying moments in the streets was seen all over the world. 
 Witnesses said she was shot by a member of the Basij, the government militia. But now the government is pressing an account that foreigners killed her to undermine its credibility.
 Political analysts inside and outside the country doubted that the millions who participated in the rallies would believe the government's version. But there are millions more citizens who may, because they receive virtually all of their information from state media -- primarily television -- and because of Iran's history of exploitation by the West.
 On Sunday, the authorities arrested nine Iranian staff members of the British Embassy in Tehran, and while five had been released Monday, four remained in custody for what the intelligence service said were efforts to incite and organize the protests.
 But as the arrests ratcheted tensions up between Iran and the European Union, Iran's Foreign Ministry spokesman tried to ease back on Monday, however slightly. ''Reduction of ties is not on our agenda with any European country, including Britain,'' the spokesman, Hassan Qashqavi, said.
 Iran's economy, even before the electoral crisis, was suffering from the drop in oil prices, with inflation of at least 15 percent -- and by some estimates 25 percent -- and damaging unemployment. On Sunday, the government announced that it had to end all subsidies for gasoline used by private vehicles, a decision that was expected, but given the timing, suggested serious strains to the state budget. 
 Antagonizing the European Union, Iran's largest trading partner, could do further damage. There was already some indication that some of Iran's most powerful groups, close to the supreme leader, were growing anxious over the state of the nation.
 European security experts, speaking on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the matter publicly, confirmed reports in Italian and Turkish newspapers that large sums of money had been sent to havens outside the country from banks controlled by the Revolutionary Guards. 
 There was another lesson from Sunday that challenged the government's belief that it can return to a state of normalcy by crushing protests and talking about recounts without also offering hope of an objective review.
 The Iranian calendar is filled with a large number of national, religious and cultural memorials, holidays and observances. On Sunday, one memorial turned into a protest by thousands of people, forcing a recognition that without shutting down civil life for a vast majority of Iranians, there would be no way to prevent large crowds from gathering.
 ''I think the memorials and the various anniversary dates, particularly for the most recent martyrs, present the greatest of threats to the regime of gatherings that could gather steam and momentum,'' said Mark Fitzpatrick, a senior fellow with the London-based International Institute for Strategic Studies. ''I expect authorities will continue to do all they can to prevent people from gathering in large numbers in such occasions.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The re-election of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad was formally certified on Monday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY AMIR POURMAND/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (78%); ELECTION FRAUD (78%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (77%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (74%); APPROVALS (69%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (99%); IRAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); LEBANON (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2009



799 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1129 words

HEADLINE: Obama Steers Health Debate Out of Capital

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
With Democrats deeply divided over health legislation, President Obama is trying to enlist the nation's governors and his own army of grass-roots supporters in a bid to increase pressure on lawmakers without getting himself mired in the messy battle playing out on Capitol Hill.
 In a meeting last week with five governors -- including Republicans who may be more sympathetic to health legislation than those on Capitol Hill -- Mr. Obama privately urged them to serve as his emissaries to Congress. He even coached them on the language they should use with lawmakers, two of the governors said, advising them to avoid terms like ''rationing'' and ''managed care,'' which evoke bitter memories of the Clintons' ill-fated health initiative.
 The hourlong session in the Roosevelt Room was part of an intensifying but potentially risky White House strategy to shift the health care debate away from Washington and to the states. On Wednesday, Mr. Obama will travel to Virginia to hold a town-hall-style meeting on health care -- his second in two weeks -- that will include questions from online communities like Facebook and Twitter. 
 With members of Congress back in their districts for the Fourth of July recess, Mr. Obama's political group, Organizing for America, has recruited thousands of supporters to participate in blood drives, raise money for medical research and volunteer at community health clinics this week, all with the intent of sending reminders to lawmakers that the public wants action on health care. 
 ''The main thing,'' David Axelrod, Mr. Obama's senior adviser, said, ''is to involve as many people as possible and demonstrate in a variety of ways the level and degree of intensity of support that this has.'' Of Mr. Obama's supporters, Mr. Axelrod said, ''There's no issue that motivates them more than health care.''
 While this outside-the-Beltway strategy lets Mr. Obama stay out of Democrats' internal fights -- for now at least -- there are risks. If Mr. Obama waits too long to exert his presidential muscle to forge consensus on Capitol Hill, his moment of opportunity could pass. He could also lose control of the final outcome if lawmakers cut backroom deals he dislikes, for example, by deciding to pay for the expansion by taxing employee health benefits, a move that worries Mr. Obama's political advisers because it could cause the president to break a campaign promise.
 Some Democrats are privately pushing the president to do more to bring his party in line. When Rahm Emanuel, the White House chief of staff, went to Capitol Hill last week, the majority leader, Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, pressed for the president to intervene more directly to settle Democrats' disputes over Mr. Obama's call for a government-run insurance plan to compete with the private sector, two people familiar with the session said. 
 Mr. Emanuel, in an e-mail message, acknowledged that some Democrats ''wanted more direct and specific involvement,'' but said others were happy with the president's level of engagement, adding, ''We received a lot of advice.''
 Over the last several weeks, Mr. Obama has steadily increased his contact with lawmakers on health care, even as he steers clear of specific policy disputes. He met privately with Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon, and telephoned Democrats on the Senate Finance Committee to check on their progress and urge them to stick to his timetable for a final bill to reach his desk in October.
 John D. Podesta, who ran Mr. Obama's transition to the presidency and consults closely with the administration on the health bill, predicted that the White House would resist the urge to ''knock heads and hammer consensus'' at least until after the Finance Committee produced a bill, sometime after the Fourth of July holiday. 
 But if the panel, widely regarded as Mr. Obama's best hope for a bipartisan measure, gets stuck or further delayed, Mr. Podesta and other Democrats say, Mr. Obama will have to step in to broker a deal.
 ''He's the president of the United States; he does have to lead and he will,'' said Senator Kent Conrad, Democrat of North Dakota. ''But he's got to pick his spots.''
 As lawmakers struggle to work out their differences, Mr. Obama is courting the governors, an effort that one White House official, speaking anonymously to discuss strategy, said began with last week's meeting. In interviews, two governors -- a Democrat, Christine Gregoire of Washington, and a Republican, Michael Rounds of South Dakota -- both said Mr. Obama asked them to talk to members of Congress about their own innovative approaches to health reform. Both said he urged them to be careful about their language. 
 ''I think he said what we have to do is not call it rationing, because clearly there is from H.M.O. days a concern about rationing,'' Mr. Rounds said, adding that he sensed Mr. Obama was hoping to have ''a bipartisan group of governors working directly with lawmakers to perhaps break a stalemate.'' 
 Ms. Gregoire said the president reminded the governors that ''Congress has a bad taste in its mouth from previous experience with managed care,'' and suggested they avoid the term. Instead, he spoke of ''evidence-based care,'' the practice of using research to guide medical decisions. She said the president told them, ''I need you to stick with me.''
 Governors are deeply concerned about the rising price of Medicaid, the government insurance program for the poor, which makes them natural allies of the president, who has made driving down health costs a centerpiece of his effort.
 But some of the proposals under consideration in Washington would expand Medicaid, a prospect that the governors find worrisome. They also fear that any legislation passed by Congress would undermine their own efforts at health reform, and said they used last week's meeting to tell Mr. Obama so.
 In reaching out to the governors, Mr. Obama is reprising a strategy that worked for him during the debate over his economic stimulus package, when he found far more support among Republican governors than among Republican lawmakers. 
 Whether Mr. Obama can have a more bipartisan outcome with health care remains unclear. He has invested so much political capital in a health care bill that not to have legislation would be politically disastrous for him. If that means passing a bill without Republican support, some Democrats say, Mr. Obama will do it.
 ''His instinct is to try, if he can, to find an honorable compromise with Republicans,'' Mr. Podesta said. ''But ultimately what he cares about at the end of the day is sitting there, pen in hand, signing a bill that's a good bill, and that he believes in. When all is said and done, that's what I think they will drive toward.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Taking part in meetings on health care were Senator Kent Conrad, Democrat of North Dakota, at left, and Govs. Christine Gregoire of Washington and Michael Rounds of South Dakota. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 POOL PHOTO BY SEAN THEW) (pg.A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (92%); GOVERNORS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (73%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (72%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (68%); SOCIAL MEDIA (66%); COMMUNITY HEALTH PROGRAMS (64%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (50%); BLOOD DONATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (55%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); RAHM EMANUEL (58%); HARRY REID (58%); DAVID AXELROD (58%); KENT CONRAD (58%); CHRISTINE GREGOIRE (58%); MIKE ROUNDS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2009



800 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 822 words

HEADLINE: Market Set to Open, but Few Will Be Shopping

BYLINE: By HOWARD BECK; Jonathan Abrams contributed reporting.

 BODY:
On this day next year, the N.B.A. will launch the most lavish free-agent party in modern history. Red carpets will roll. Private jets will crisscross the continent. Obscene amounts of money will be promised. Franchise fates will be altered.
 LeBron James will be the guest of honor, flanked, perhaps, by Dwyane Wade and Chris Bosh, Amare Stoudemire and Shaquille O'Neal, Dirk Nowitzki and Steve Nash. It should be a glorious time for teams with cap space and superstars with good realtors. 
 The summer before the Summer of LeBron will not be quite so glorious.
 A variety of factors -- including a poor economy, weak season-ticket sales, a declining salary cap and the LeBron sweepstakes itself -- could conspire to make this an unhappy off-season for most free agents.
 Only four teams are expected to have significant salary-cap space, and not all are expected to use it. Most teams can spend their so-called midlevel exception -- about $5.6 million -- but most of them probably will not. 
 ''People are going to show restraint both ways,'' said Mike Dunleavy, the Los Angeles Clippers' general manager and coach.
 The salary cap is not expected to change much from last season's $58.7 million, but it could drop by 10 percent next season, by some estimates. The luxury-tax threshold could also fall, forcing teams to rein in spending now.
 More than 100 players will become free agents at midnight Tuesday. Negotiations will commence soon after, although no deals can be consummated until July 8, after the annual moratorium.
 Teams are already cutting back. Last week, the Milwaukee Bucks practically gave away Richard Jefferson, a high-scoring forward, in a trade with the San Antonio Spurs. The Bucks received a package of expiring contracts designed to reduce their payroll. Two days later, the Phoenix Suns traded O'Neal to Cleveland, and the Nets sent Vince Carter to Orlando, also for cap-friendly contracts.
 The Bucks continued their payroll slashing on Monday when, in a surprise move, they declined to tender a qualifying offer to Charlie Villanueva, their promising young forward. The move made Villanueva an unrestricted free agent and probably ended his career in Milwaukee.
 The Boston Celtics, who won the championship in 2008, have been offering their starting guards, Ray Allen and Rajon Rondo, in trade talks, in part because of financial considerations.
 The tight market could force players to change their plans. Carlos Boozer, an All-Star forward for the Utah Jazz, had signaled that he would opt out of the final year of his contract, which pays $12.7 million. But with few teams willing to bid for him, Boozer is reportedly hedging his decision.
 The only player guaranteed a maximum payout is the Los Angeles Lakers' Kobe Bryant, the most valuable player of the N.B.A. finals. Bryant has indicated he intends to opt out of his contract and sign a new multiyear deal with the Lakers.
 The Lakers may have the most to lose in free agency -- forwards Trevor Ariza and Lamar Odom -- and thus the most to gain from the recession. Odom is unlikely to match the $14.1 million he made this season, but Ariza can expect a significant raise from $3.1 million.
 The Magic, which lost to the Lakers in the finals, could also lose a key starter. By acquiring Carter, who will make $16.3 million, Orlando made it nearly impossible to re-sign Hedo Turkoglu, who opted out of his contract. Turkoglu was scheduled to make $7.3 million next season and will be looking for a raise. Re-signing him would force the Magic to pay the luxury tax, which the franchise has been reluctant to do.
 The biggest buyer this summer will probably be the Detroit Pistons, who could have about $20 million in cap space after letting Rasheed Wallace and Allen Iverson leave. The Pistons have reportedly targeted Ben Gordon, the hot-shooting Chicago Bulls guard, and will also be shopping for a big man, possibly Boozer or his Jazz teammate Paul Millsap.
 The other teams with significant cap space are Portland, Memphis and Oklahoma City, although it is not clear how much the Grizzlies and the Thunder are willing to spend. The Trail Blazers are reportedly interested in Turkoglu. They also need a point guard, and there are three top veterans available: Dallas's Jason Kidd, Philadelphia's Andre Miller and Atlanta's Mike Bibby.
 The lower-tier free agents will probably have to settle for re-signing with their teams or accepting a midlevel exception elsewhere. However, some team executives predict that only three or four teams will use their midlevel exceptions.
 ''No one knows what the marketplace is going to be,'' said an Eastern Conference general manager, who did not want to be quoted speculating about the market. ''It's a brand new world in that respect. This year, the top-flight free agents will go quickly. Then, it will be a long free-agent period. I just don't see people rushing out to pay big money or taking chances.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Carlos Boozer of the Jazz, top, can opt out of his contract, and Hedo Turkoglu of the Magic, above, already has, but both may find it hard to find a team that will offer them a raise.(PHOTOGRAPHS, MARK J. TERRILL/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 JED JACOBSOHN/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THIS DAY IN HISTORY (90%); BASKETBALL (89%); CELEBRITIES (75%); SWEEPSTAKES (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); HISTORY (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); SPORTS AWARDS (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); ATHLETES (60%); TICKET SALES (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (84%); UTAH JAZZ (59%); ORLANDO MAGIC (59%); LOS ANGELES CLIPPERS (55%)

PERSON: LEBRON JAMES (77%); SHAQUILLE O'NEAL (56%); KOBE BRYANT (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (76%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (75%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (53%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (53%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (76%); FLORIDA, USA (75%); ARIZONA, USA (53%); TEXAS, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2009

 
