

201 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 6; Page 73; Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 448 words

HEADLINE: Musical Fares

BYLINE: By Laurence Zuckerman; Laurence Zuckerman writes about aviation for The Times.

 BODY:
The first rule of the airline business is that an empty seat is as worthless as a piece of rotten fruit. Last year, the carriers succeeded in filling more than 70 percent of their seats, the highest level since the end of World War II and a rate that, before deregulation, was considered technically unattainable by most experts.
After losing $13 billion in the early 1990's -- more, by one reckoning, than the industry had made since the Wright brothers' first flight in 1903 -- the airlines have just completed their third year of record profits, with the 10 majors clearing a total of $10 billion and expecting a strong 1998. Behind this success is a powerful economy that lifted the number of passengers by 23 percent, to 548 million, in the last five years, while capacity grew by only 13 percent. But the airlines have also figured out how to pack their planes by selling the same seat at a variety of prices. 
 Most coveted are business travelers who pay top dollar for last-minute reservations. But airlines don't want to reserve seats for business travelers who then don't turn up. To avoid that, they use powerful computers, probability analysis, applied statistics and econometrics to sift through months of past bookings, cancellations and fare records to determine exactly how many seats on each flight should be held back and how many should be sold in advance at various discounts.
The practice, called yield management, has been made infinitely more complex by the so-called hub-and-spoke system adopted by major airlines after the industry was deregulated in the late 1970's. A typical large airline might have 3,000 flights a day but serve as many as 30,000 pairs of cities. Factor in an average of 10 different fares in coach and about 250,000 fare changes each day and a computer must juggle more than 100 million different possibilities at any one moment. To price 11 months' worth of reservations -- 140 million seats on 780,000 flights -- United Airlines recently installed a cousin of Deep Blue, the I.B.M. supercomputer that defeated the world chess champion Garry Kasparov.
Though such systems can cost tens of millions of dollars, they are well worth it. American Airlines, which pioneered yield management in the mid-1970's, estimates that its computer brings in an additional $500 million in annual revenues. And as computer power increases, the systems are becoming increasingly accurate, allowing airlines to squeeze even more money out of their operations.
The accompanying illustration explains how American Airlines sells seats over a six-month period for a typical Friday- afternoon flight from Phoenix to its hub in Dallas-Ft. Worth.

GRAPHIC: Diagram: Six Months Before Departure
The computer organizes the numerous coach fares and itineraries into categories -- called "buckets" -- reflecting their price. As the plane fills up, the computer will limit sales of discounted tickets to insure that some seats are reserved for late arrivals, who pay a steep premium. First-class tickets usually do not sell out in advance; most will be snapped up later by frequent fliers seeking upgrades.
 
Forty-eight Days Before Departure
By now, 41 coach seats have been reserved for the Phoenix-to-Dallas leg, nearly all at heavy discounts or for frequent-flier credits. Passengers are paying from $220 round trip to Dallas-Fort Worth to $1,300 round trip connecting to Santiago, Chile. Based on past cancellations, the computer authorizes agents to book a total of 154 coach seats, 29 over capacity. No reservations yet in first class.
 
Thirteen Days Before Departure
Travelers have booked 101 seats, and the 21- and 14-day advance-purchase fares for this leg are now closed off. The computer authorizes agents to overbook 21 seats. Round-trip fares to Dallas have risen to $448 from $220 three weeks earlier. Round trips to Miami and Boston have risen to $668 and $1,036, respectively, from $434 and $354. Still no reservations in first class.
 
Four Hours Before Departure
The plane is still overbooked, by 11 passengers, but the computer nonetheless authorizes the sale of three more coach seats. Prices are at a premium. A round-trip ticket to Dallas costs $1,142; to Miami and Boston (going through Dallas), $1,362 and $1,708. The first-class cabin, with only two reservations five days ago, has been filled to its 14-seat capacity by frequent fliers.
 
Five Minutes Before Departure
The plane is overbooked by 13 passengers. But 3 left on an earlier flight and 10 others do not show up, so the flight is full. (For some weekend flights, unfilled seats are offered on the Internet every Wednesday: $129 for the Phoenix-to-Dallas round trip.) Of 125 coach passengers, 52 paid either 21-day discounted fares (for $220 to $420) or 14-day discounted fares (for $270 to $420), 25 took advantage of 7-day discounts, 35 paid full fare and 13 redeemed frequent-flier credits. In first class, 2 passengers paid full fare and 12 received frequent-flier upgrades.
 
Seating Chart
52 Discounted 21- and 14-day fares.
35 Full coach fares.
25 Discounted 7-day fares.
13 Frequent-flier redemptions.
12 First-class upgrades.
2 Full first-class fares.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IBMC (BRU) (52%); IBM (NYSE) (52%); IBM (LSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (52%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CHILE (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (94%); SANTIAGO, CHILE (71%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (64%); 

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (52%); INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (52%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CHILE (79%); TEXAS, USA (94%); DALLAS, TX, USA (94%); SANTIAGO, CHILE (71%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (64%); 

SUBJECT: Airlines and Airplanes; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates) AIRLINES (92%); DEREGULATION (89%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); WORLD WAR II (57%); 

PERSON: Zuckerman, Laurence

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2004



202 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 6; Page 42; Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 4328 words

HEADLINE: Nowhere, U.S.A.

BYLINE: By Richard Rayner; Richard Rayner is a frequent contributor to the magazine. He wrote about women and the warrior mentality in the military last June.

 BODY:
In the United Airlines first-class lounge at O'Hare International Airport, there's sushi for lunch and only two travelers in evidence. One is on the floor, waving his legs in the air, doing yoga. The other is a grouchy-looking middle-aged guy in tasseled loafers, slacks and a duffel coat he hasn't bothered to take off. He sits hunched, moodily sipping red wine, quite oblivious to the serene first-class space, with its subdued motif of the Orient. He's trying to control his temper.
His name is Tom Stiffler. He sports a green-faced watch with golf clubs crossed at the stroke of noon, and he's a top executive for an automobile company. He's on his way to Germany and he has just about had it. He has come in to Chicago today from St. Louis. He was supposed to be flying through Atlanta on TWA to Stuttgart but there was a cancellation. Now, if nothing else goes wrong, he'll be landing at 6 a.m. in Frankfurt, where he'll jump into a car for a high-speed autobahn drive to make a meeting he doesn't believe he needs to attend. "My trip today is happening because it makes people feel better when they can touch someone," he says. "But if you need to see me once a week, you don't need me. You need a baby sitter." 
 I ask if he enjoys travel and he rolls his blue eyes toward the ceiling and explodes with laughter. "No. No, no, no. I used to, quite, but now I view it only as a disruption, an irritation. When you've traveled as long as I have, as frequently as I have, it wears you out."
He says he once sat down and did the math. He figures that three years of his adult life have been spent on the way to and from airports, in airports, on airplanes. "On average, I'm home three nights a week. I have one boy just graduating college, and another still in college. They're assessing their futures in the light of my life. On any given day they'll say, 'We're not gonna do what Dad did,' and I can't say I blame them. But it's what you sign up for when you join an international corporation."
Stiffler admits that I'm catching him on an especially bad day. He has 750,000 unclaimed frequent-flier miles, which sounds like an awful lot to me until I chat with the lounge's other occupant, Daniel Whalen, who has now finished his exercises and has put back on wire-frame glasses and is sitting. He's middle-aged, boyish. He says it's a while since he even bothered to check, but he reckons he has two million to three million unclaimed miles. He runs a project management consultancy in Northern California.
Project management consultant? It's one of those vague, impressive-sounding titles that a lot of business guys proffer. I ask him to explain.
He smiles. "Most of the companies that hire me are in telecommunications. Basically I help them build their phone networks," he says. Now he's about to do this for someone in Moscow. "I love the work and I'm excited about going to Moscow, where I've never been. But I dread the evenings. I honestly do. Missing my family. Never feeling comfortable. Still, this is my business and my choice."
There was a time when he traveled four days a week, but he has cut that back since he decided to try and batch his travel. Now he stays away for longer, but less often. "My wife said, 'Just be gone.' It's the moments of departure and coming back that are so stressful."
Departures and arrivals: that's airports. Writing in the youthful era of commercial air travel, F. Scott Fitzgerald likened the airports of the 1930's to oases, stops on the great trade route, places of adventure. These days airports can be amazing environments, from a design standpoint, yet you tend to go numb the moment you walk through the sliding doors. You don't know quite where you are. That's because airport architecture exists within its own bubble. And although your most fervent desire is to be spirited at once to your destination, the job at hand is to control your temper and impatience while keeping boredom at bay.
In 1982 nearly 38 million passengers traveled through O'Hare. Last year, the figure reached 70 million. It's like a city, but of a very particular kind. A big part of its character is that it has no character, though it has plenty of discrete environments. It has its hot spots and dead zones, its exclusive clubs and its regular bars. It has its railway system, chapel, post office, medical center and its dental facility. It has its McDonald's, Starbucks, sports store franchised by the local superstar -- in this case, of course, Michael Jordan. It has its neighborhoods that bustle and others that have gone to seed but are now being gentrified. It has its homeless, who ride public transport to come here during the day, to a place that's warm, dry, clean, safe -- neutral. It has its class structure.
A United employee lets me through a series of doors and I pass from the hushed and sacred samurai ground of the first-class international lounge into the only slightly-less-hallowed turf of the United Red Carpet Club. Normally those doors remain locked. The entrance requirement for the former is straightforward: a first-class international ticket. To walk into the Red Carpet Club you need membership, paid for annually with cash or miles.
The lounge is functional but comfortable, furnished in wood panels with a uniform grain and a series of muted browns. By now, it's 3 in the afternoon and people troop in and out, a constant stream. The first thing that most of them do, before opening their laptops or helping themselves to coffee, sometimes even before shrugging off their coats and dumping their bags, is to reach for a phone and punch in a calling-card number.
Only then do they settle down. They have business that won't wait, or maybe they need to be reassured about the continued existence of their lives outside the airport. They check in, not with the airline or even the office, but with themselves. From the outside, the lounge looks pretty straightforward. Inside, however, it's as fussy and self-perpetuating as Debrett's, the hierarchical guidebook of the British aristocracy, all designed to keep the top tier of travelers secure within the bosom of the airline. United's frequent-flier program has three elite levels: Premier, Premier Executive and, at the top, 1K, for those who travel more than 100,000 miles a year. All this has an effect on your view of yourself as a smart and valuable person, on your place in the universe. Not that being in the Red Carpet Club seems to make anyone wildly happy.
Near the entrance to the lounge I spot a sharp-eyed, middle-aged, immaculately presented woman sitting quite straight with her knees pressed together. In front of her, on a sofa, a businessman leans back with his eyes closed; in an armchair, another man taps his hand while he gazes vacantly into space; across the way, yet another guy sits with his hand clutching his forehead. They convey an odd mixture of stress and repose. A sports agent in a Burberry coat is talking about Boris Becker's age and the time remaining on Brett Favre's contract. A lawyer in a black turtleneck and glittering half-moon spectacles is on the phone to Los Angeles.
The sharp-eyed woman seems to see none of them. She explains that she got back yesterday from a cowboy-poetry festival in Phoenix and now has to fly west again, to California, to placate a customer who's hopping mad. She owns and runs a horticulture business. "We breed and produce and sell flower seeds," she says. "Today's problem was created by a salesman I had to let go."
She's very successful (her company employs 7,000 people) and she's divorced -- she raises her 10-year-old daughter on her own. "The rhythm is what I miss. I liken it to piano lessons. If you don't practice every day, you can't get ahead, you get out of the rhythm. There are some things that require constant attention. Children, especially. And friendship. That has to be worked on. I no longer make friends, because I'm constantly jerked in and out of my life. Travel's a pain. There's no way around it. I'll take a candle for the hotel room. I'll take books and poetry. But it's still a pain. Whatever I do, my life feels all turned around, as if I can't focus on what really matters to me."
I understand this woman's anger and loneliness, and I ask myself, what if the smooth lawyer were to connect with her, or the sports agent, the way John Barrymore stepped into the jaded life of Greta Garbo in "Grand Hotel"? In a movie about an airport, it would happen. In this life, it won't, because travel, at this level, isn't about adventure or human destinies connecting. It's about a problem to be solved, a customer's hand to be held, an economic storm to be diverted. It's an ordeal, not an opportunity.
Younger business travelers tend not to mind so much. For them there's still the sense that each journey is taking them closer to a goal; trips, arduous ones, are part of the package that comes with ambition. But even so, travel sometimes presents ironic wrinkles. At the far end of the lounge I talk with Shelly Shope, a woman in her early 30's with a laptop balanced on her knees and a copy of John Grisham's "Partner" ignored on the table in front of her.
Shope works in corporate health and safety for a big pharmaceutical company. She has two young kids, a girl and a boy, and her husband runs his own business from home, looking after them a lot of the time. "A very 90's arrangement," she says. She's on United's late-afternoon flight to England, where she'll be spending a week in Basingstoke. This isn't like spending eight hours on a jet to go to the Orient or the Casbah; this is like spending eight hours on a jet to go to Trenton.
"I like it, because it's the only way I can be with my customers," she says, and she gives a little self-deprecatory shrug, as if she understands that this sounds as if she's toeing the company line. "I mean it, really, it's fine," she says. "My kids know no other life except Mom travels and goes on trips and brings them back presents. They greet me with, 'Mom, what did you get?' Sometimes I can't get to a store and there's nothing at the airport so my husband will go to Toys 'R' Us and meet me with a secret bag. He hands it to me without the kids seeing and I say, 'Hey, look what Mommy brought.' "
O'Hare is, famously, the world's busiest airport. It's huge, physically and statistically: the only airport in America that provides a hub for two major airlines, American and United. It serves 2,500 flights and 185,000 passengers daily; it has 50,000 employees, 170 gates and a total airport area of 7,700 acres. To walk, if you know exactly where you're going and walk fast, from the farthest extreme of United's C Concourse in Terminal 1 to the end of American's L Concourse in Terminal 3 (the longest journey you could take, or would want to, in the main body of the airport) takes 15 minutes or more. If you've got luggage, or worse, a cart, and don't use the automated transit system, it might take 30 minutes. In three days here I get lost, frequently. I discover that O'Hare is a maze with its own weird pulse, a rhythm that changes and affects one's own mood, with lulls and sudden squalls.
By 6 p.m., out with the mob in the main terminals, it's rush hour, a hurricane. A businessman sprints down the moving walkway, shoes slapping, tie flying, briefcase brandished like a weapon, rushing to a gate. There's a man at a gate, clutching a golf club, another one eating a cinnamon roll, two more reading The Wall Street Journal and another on his feet reading "Total Control," by David Baldacci. A group of businessmen groan, realizing they'll have to rampage 400 yards down to the other end of the concourse because of a gate change for their flight to Albany. There are seven or eight men and women using a row of pay phones, all talking to one another's backs; when one turns, the others do the same, like cards being flipped over -- it's synchronized phoning. A door to the outside opens and there's a blast of noise and a sudden rush of sweet-smelling jet fuel. Two United employees stride along, burly guys with hair flying out from beneath their baseball caps, blue-collar guys without whom none of this could function, part of a working underclass, escaped for a moment into the airport's visible surface.
The high, barrel-vaulted B and C concourses in this terminal were built by the Chicago architect Helmut Jahn as modern variants on a steel-and-glass architectural style the late Victorians used for their pavilions and great exhibition halls. These beautiful, airy structures resemble others airports, in Osaka, say, or Helsinki, more than they do anything in the American Middle West. They represent a dreamlike, distilled view of reality, with everything writ clear and simple and big. The geography is neutral, and much of the iconography is global, relating to sports or Hollywood.
By 7:30, there's already an end-of-the-day feeling. The Muzak seems a little louder. The lights glow a little brighter from the Hot Spot Pretzel Bagel Bar and the Fannie Mae candy stand. Rush hour is over, and there's another deadening lull. The concourse is stalked by those working late, or those whose plans have gone awry.
A young short-haired guy in gray slacks and a smart blue sport coat is trying to make a call from one of the pay phones when the phone on his right starts to ring. He ignores it, still trying to get his connection, but then, bizarrely, the phone on his left starts to ring, too. He squirms, looking from one to the other -- it's as if he's being tormented by some spiteful phone god. The ringing goes on and on until at last he can't stand it anymore. He slams down his own phone, shuffles his garment bag off his shoulder, lifts the phone to his left, lifts the one on his right and then tosses them both away. Wondering if anyone has noticed, he gives a sheepish look around the concourse, shrugs and picks up the phone he was using in the first place while the other receivers sway and bang their heads against the tiled wall.
On the other side of the lounge I meet Lou Hagler, who tells me that he's in engineering management, and I realize that this is another of those business jobs whose description is so vague as to leave me completely in the dark. My grandfather was an engineer. He never needed to go near an airplane in his life. Engineering management?
"I'm a hired gun," says Hagler, and I'm none the wiser. A once-jaunty white suitcase sits between us. He wears snazzy boots and speaks with a lazy cowboy drawl. His original Air Canada flight developed difficulties, and so he has been routed through Chicago, where he waits, and waits, and waits, like one of the dispossessed exiles in "Casablanca."
"By the time you get in it's midnight. You know you have to be up at 6 the next morning. And here you sit, in an airport you're not supposed to be in," he says, exuding boredom. Travel? It's a game he knows he's doomed to carry on playing.
"What can I say? If you want job security these days, the world has to be your workplace. It's not as glamorous as you might think."
No kidding. Yet, increasingly the goal is to persuade the business traveler that he need never leave the airport. He can fly in, rent a conference room provided by the airport, one of the airline clubs or an airport hotel, then fly out with the tang of jet fuel never quite forgotten. He might even decide to come to the airport and do business even though he's not traveling.
On the second floor of American's Admirals Club, there's a 14,000-square-foot facility that is routinely used by headhunters (who fly executives in from around the country), by lawyers taking depositions, by sports agents hustling college or high-school basketball players, even, recently, by the Dalai Lama himself. It decreases the need for meeting rooms, rental cars, directions, downtown hotels -- all that messy stuff outside. The rooms themselves are different sizes, but all are essentially the same: comfortable, bland, windowless, with tables and chairs and video monitors and art from the American Airlines corporate collection.
I leave Hagler and take a moving walkway to the O'Hare Hilton, another excuse or opportunity never to leave the airport. I go past the Hilton Health Club, where businessmen and businesswomen are swimming or pounding away the day's frustration. A guy swishes a nine iron, sending a ball hurtling into the virtual-reality golf screen. Upstairs, in the Gaslight Club, groups of businessmen settle down for dinner and the evening's entertainment. The Gaslight is a surreal mingling of a Playboy club and a steakhouse from Edwardian London. There's flocked wallpaper and big art depicting naughty music-hall scenes. There's no menu in the ordinary sense. The menu takes the form of a circular steel platter holding various cuts of shrink-wrapped meat, raw. Then there's yet more shrink-wrap, holding down each individually shrink-wrapped piece to the platter itself, which is offered by a waitress dressed in gold toeless sandals, sheer hose and a clinging, tasseled bodysuit cut high at the crotch and tight and low around the breasts.
The bar pianist has white hair and resembles Willie Nelson. The waitresses get up on the little raised stage and sing, or teeter around with drinks trays and humidors. The businessmen, some of whom have come from as far afield as Australia for a cosmetics-industry conference, swill cognacs and puff on preposterous cigars. It's the first time I've seen a rumpled shirt all day. There's one businesswoman in the group, and she leaves early. It's strange, very sophomoric fun, but expensive, and rendered surreal, even slightly desperate, by the fact that the men enjoying it are in early middle age.
"I love my wife," says one of them, a little drunk, removing a cigar from his mouth. "But that girl over there, I'd give her one." He nods to himself. He's going through the motions, trying to believe in a circumstance and freedom of travel that no longer exists. "It used to be that you'd go out for a night with the guys and chase skirt. Now everyone's got a laptop and never stops working," he says bitterly.
Right in the middle of the airport is a rotunda, beneath which there is an information booth and a parlor for shiatsu massage. Up on the mezzanine there's a neon skyline of Chicago, a business center that's currently ill used because there are better facilities elsewhere, and a restaurant and bar, the Skybird, which was once the best in the airport but has fallen on hard times. The next day I meet there with Mary Rose Loney, the airport commissioner, who touts O'Hare as America's future gateway to the Far East and tells me of a $30 million plan to revitalize the Skybird locale. "Access points for data hookups, Internet kiosks, workstations, proximity to shelving, the right lighting. Our aim is to cyberize this entire area, to create a cyber-friendly, mall-type environment for travelers who aren't members of a club."
"Detached yet engaged" is the phrase a business friend of mine uses to describe the productive, imaginative state of mind he formerly enjoyed when traveling, a state now encroached upon by cell phones, sky phones, laptops. Travel used to hold out the promise of time to relax, to chill, maybe even to do some creative thinking. Now business is relentless, stalking businessmen wherever they go, into bars, into restaurants, into surreal clubs.
As airports become cyberized and malled up, the downtown cities they serve become increasingly redundant to the business traveler. Travel will be reduced to an essence of inoffensive white space: the airport, the airplane, the airport, the airplane, the airport again. If you want to look at Frank Lloyd Wright's Chicago houses, after all, they're available on CD-ROM.
On the long trudge back from the central rotunda to Terminal 1, I turn a corner and see a boxy steel-and-glass pavilion where signs encourage me to eat ice cream and yogurt from a nearby concession. Beyond this, there is a bank of phone booths and beyond them there is a small forest of disappointed-looking trees planted in gray concrete tubs.
It's a backwater, almost deserted. No one's eating ice cream in the steel-and-glass pavilion. Only a few people are walking through. A Chicago Department of Aviation employee lounges against his mop. A Japanese woman goes by with her two children, searching for a kids' museum that's supposed to be nearby. I note a couple of brightly painted wooden benches that are hidden among the trees and the tubs, which are filled with wood chips.
Then at last I figure out what's going on, why I find this area so strange: in this quiet space in the middle of O'Hare, someone has tried to create a park. It doesn't work, partly because it's halfhearted and partly because, well, a park doesn't belong in an airport. A park evokes a sense of civic use and urbanity that has been outstripped by reality -- the era of Robert Moses rather than that of Bill Gates and Steven Spielberg.
Then a businessman's head pops up over the top of a phone booth, a big fresh-faced guy in his early 30's wearing a blue suit, white shirt and red paisley tie. He balances a battered red leather briefcase on top of the phone booth and starts fiddling around inside it. He tells me that his name is Art Patterson, and he works for a fast-growing Texas-based company that manufactures chemicals. As soon as he says the word "chemicals," he stresses how ecologically careful the company is, not only because that's the right way to go but also because, these days, it's smart business.
The briefcase, he explains, was a gift from his parents 15 years ago, and he has carried it with him every day of his working life. It contains a cell phone (his second), a calculator (a cheap one, so he doesn't have to worry if he loses it), his passport (which goes with him everywhere), company stationery, a book of free-drink chits for various airport lounges, highlighters, keys, floppy disks, toxicity data reports, a brochure titled "Growing Kids God's Way," a tassel that has come off one of his loafers and his own plane ticket plus one for a Chinese consultant who's flying with him back to Houston so they can do a few hours' business in the air.
"I like being out of the house," he says. "It means my wife doesn't take me for granted. And today I discovered that two of our big rivals have postures on one particular issue which was the precise flip of what I expected. I really couldn't have got that information if I hadn't been in a face-to-face situation. E-mail tells you nothing about the raised eyebrow. This is the way business is done in the 1990's. If you don't do this, you're a dinosaur, dead meat."
Art Patterson knows where he's going. As American as apple pie, he's making himself rich. He has a sense of his own importance and a feeling that he's in control of his own destiny. He makes me feel a little better about all this, and even the faux park suddenly seems not such a bad idea after all. People are out here at O'Hare, making use of it, even not minding the fact that -- like Art Patterson -- they have two-hour layovers. They're achieving success without losing their identities or sacrificing their families and their own sense of themselves at the altar of the frequent-flier card. Obviously, I knew that.
Then, a few minutes later, I find myself standing at the bottom of the escalators that lead to the underpass that links the B and C concourses in United Terminal 1, and a mood of gloom descends once more. I watch the constant stream of passengers coming down, and it strikes me that they nearly all wear the same expression: unemotional, drained of feeling, as if in suspended animation. And then they step into a humming world that will numb and pacify them even more, a tunnel with pastel backlit walls, where moving sidewalks roll beneath kinetic neon that shoots across the ceiling in shades of blue, green, red, yellow and orange.
This underpass is not so much an artwork; it's not even an escape from the airport experience. Rather it's a perfectly devised exaggeration and apotheosis of that experience, with an ambient New Age version of George Gershwin's "Rhapsody in Blue" as the soundtrack and a voice that gradually grows louder and louder: "Please look down. . .the moving sidewalk is now ending . . .please look down." The real message is something else, however, an existential reassurance rather than a warning: "You're not here. . .you're not anywhere. . .you don't have to be anybody, not even yourself. . .relax.. . ."
Yet spending a long period of time here is far from relaxing; rather, it's an emotional and draining experience. It's true that O'Hare is like a city, but it's a city with the feeling and marrow of character sucked out, a city not for the alienated but for the temporarily dispossessed -- which means an increasing number of us.
I realize that, during these days in Chicago, I never actually did get in to the city itself. I haven't, in fact, been outside the airport, yet I wander over to the W. H. Smith concession and buy a present for my 3-year-old son, one of those Chicago collectibles, a green Chicago Checker cab, so he'll be able to show it to his pals at day care and tell them where his dad has been. Then I skirt the moving walkway and cross toward a food bar on the other side of the concourse, where I buy a turkey-salad sandwich. It's shrink-wrapped.
 'I no longer make friends, because I'm constantly jerked in and out of my life,' says one middle-aged woman. 'Travel's a pain. My life feels all turned around, as if I can't focus on what really matters to me.'; The goal is to convince business travelers they need never leave the airport at all. One facility is routinely used by headhunters; by lawyers taking depositions; by sports agents hustling players; even, recently, by the Dalai Lama himself.

GRAPHIC: Photos: SAT., 7:05 P.M., DALLAS: Mike scans titles at the Dallas airport.; Business travel isn't about adventure - it's about controlling your temper and keeping boredom at bay. Above, the United Airlines Red Carpet Club at Chicago's O'Hare International; SAT., 9:10 P.M.: Mike lands in Salt Lake City, calm amid the frenzy.; Home Is Where the Phone Is: With the advent of laptops and cell phones, the business traveler is perpetually on call. Above, Shelly Shope waits to board a late-afternoon flight to England; above right, biding time in the American Airlines Admirals Club; bottom right, the business-friendly Starbucks in the American terminal at O'Hare.; SAT., 11:10 P.M., SNOWBIRD, UT.: Mike, on a side trip for some skiing, kicks back at the Cliff Lodge Hotel. (Photographs by Dana Lixenberg)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (88%); UNITED STATES (88%); ENGLAND (59%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (88%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (88%); UNITED STATES (88%); ENGLAND (59%); ILLINOIS, USA (88%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Airlines and Airplanes; O'Hare International Airport (Chicago); Travel and Vacations; Biographical Information AIRPORTS (92%); AIRLINES (90%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (77%); GOLF (75%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (74%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (73%); YOGA (73%); 

PERSON: Rayner, Richard MICHAEL MCMAHON (63%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2004



203 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 9, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 1143 words

HEADLINE: Immigrants Aren't the Problem. We Are.

BYLINE: By Bill McKibben; Bill McKibben is the author of "The End of Nature" and the forthcoming "Maybe One: A Personal and Environmental Argument for Single-Child Families."

DATELINE: JOHNSBURG, N.Y.

 BODY:
In the next few weeks, the half million members of the Sierra Club will vote to set the club's policy on the issue of immigration. Since the Sierra Club does not exactly control Congress, the final count won't much matter, but the debate, which has already been spirited, represents an invaluable chance to raise the issue of how many people this country can and should contain.
Immigration is about as difficult a moral subject as one can imagine, so even the proposed change in Sierra Club policy -- in favor of an unspecified "reduction in net immigration" -- has ignited controversy. In a world of desperate poverty, it is hard for citizens of the richest nation to argue that the door should be closed, especially since nearly all of us can recall our immigrant roots. 
 Not only that, too many people who support tighter controls on immigration are racists of various types. I got a letter last month from a board member of one national group working on population issues in which he complained about "barbarians" who littered the subways and played "ugly" music. (He professed to prefer that all-American composer J. S. Bach.) So it is no surprise that most wise people, including most wise environmentalists, simply ignore the matter: currently, the official Sierra Club policy is to "take no position on immigration levels or on policies governing immigration into the United States."
Environmentalists have focused on living more simply and more efficiently as the keys to our problems here at home, but many, myself included, have largely overlooked the messier and more divisive question of our sheer numbers. While our birth rate is just below the replacement level of 2.1 -- the number of children each mother would need to bear to keep the population constant -- our total population continues to grow quickly compared with that of other developed nations. Part of this is because of our longer life spans and the echoes of the baby-boom bulge -- even at two children apiece, we'll be increasing our numbers for decades to come. But our population is also growing because we have by far the world's highest level of immigration -- something like 800,000 legal immigrants take up residence here each year (not to mention illegal immigrants, estimated at 300,000 a year). Natural increase and immigration, the Census Bureau projects, may combine to swell our population by as much as 50 percent in the next 50 years, bringing it to nearly 400 million; by even the most conservative estimates, there will be 30 percent more Americans by the middle of the next century.
That's a problem for two reasons. The first, and most obvious, is that this country, so seemingly empty when Europeans initially arrived, is by some definitions becoming crowded. It's true that the Plains remain sparsely populated, and probably always will. But the places Americans want to live are jammed. The Northeast corridor of suburbs and cities is already more densely populated than Haiti or El Salvador; California's 30 million may become 50 million by 2050. With each year, the ring of suburbs spreads a little farther out, the roads become a bit more crowded, the margin for wildlife becomes slightly smaller. That endless growth places real stress on our supplies of everything from water to silence, from farmland to solitude. Such growth even strains our democracy. When the Constitution was ratified, each member of Congress represented 30,000 voters; now it's 570,000.
But there's a bigger problem still. Americans, as the world's most voracious consumers, contribute far more per capita to the world's environmental problems than anyone else. So an extra hundred million Americans means, for instance, a staggering amount of carbon dioxide entering the atmosphere and warming the climate. It's true that we could alleviate some of that problem if each of us consumed less and consumed more efficiently -- if we lived in smaller homes heated by the sun. I've spent most of my career writing about just such ideas, and believe in them wholeheartedly.
But at the moment, we're building bigger homes and driving bigger cars. And even if we came to our senses, the momentum of natural increase and immigration would render most of our changes meaningless. As the President's Council on Sustainable Development pointed out in 1996, domestic population growth means we'll need to increase our energy efficiency 50 percent in the next half century just to run in place.
This is a very different argument from the traditional "they'll-take-our-jobs-from-us" lament. Economists by now have mostly concluded that immigrants actually create wealth, which should come as no surprise to anyone who has visited Brooklyn or Queens in recent years. If those who wanted to immigrate here stayed instead in Juarez or Shanghai or, for that matter, Dublin, they would do far less damage to the planet precisely because they would not be as rich. That's the point, and that's also the rub. People want to come here for a better life with more opportunities, and who are we to deny them that chance?
We of course already deny plenty of people that chance -- even our current, historically generous immigration ceiling means many people aren't allowed in. Of the world's huddled masses, only the tiniest fraction will ever come here even with existing laws. And while some population-control advocates want to see immigration all but stopped, most whom I've talked to would prefer to see the limits cut roughly in half, to about 400,000 annually, with special provisions for asylum seekers. At that rate, if our birth rate simultaneously fell to the European average of 1.5 children, we could see our population stop growing within a generation.
Still, such a policy would be harsh. It would mean 400,000 more people a year who would be turned away at the door -- people with particular hopes, particular sorrows. And all in the name of as-yet fairly abstract problems like global warming. Such restrictions would come at real cost to the American dream, too; in most cities I know, New York included, immigrants best exemplify the kind of citizenship and community spirit increasingly absent from the nation's mainstream.
So I think we have no right to pass such laws, or even to support them in nonbinding forms like Sierra Club referendums, unless we also take serious steps in our own lives to lessen our impact on the environment. If we're not willing to reduce the size of our families or the size of our sport utility vehicles, then cutting immigration is piggish scapegoating; it may save some of our landscape, but at the price of our national soul. If, however, we are willing to take some painful steps ourselves, then we earn the right to tell some tough truths to others -- chief among them that even this rich land can't grow forever. Numbers count.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: SIERRA CLUB SIERRA CLUB (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: SIERRA CLUB SIERRA CLUB (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ENVIRONMENT IMMIGRATION (95%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (74%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (73%); REFUGEES (73%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); SIMPLE LIVING (70%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (70%); CENSUS (69%); RACE & RACISM (68%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (66%); POPULATION GROWTH (54%); 

PERSON: MCKIBBEN, BILL

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1998



204 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 9, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 2843 words

HEADLINE: Backlash Growing as Indians Make a Stand for Sovereignty

SERIES: PARALLEL NATIONS -- Second of two articles.

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY EGAN 

DATELINE: CROW AGENCY, Mont.

 BODY:
Come south along the Little Bighorn River to a rise in the Montana hills, where the ghosts of Crazy Horse and George Armstrong Custer have taken up a permanent perch in American mythology. No blood has been shed here in well over a century, but the Little Bighorn is a battleground again.
This is Crow Indian country now, part of the reservation owned by people whose role in the 1876 battle was largely on the side of the Seventh Cavalry, serving as scouts. For years the Crow have been trying to get a piece of the tourist trade that descends on the Little Bighorn in the summer months. 
 Tourists drive over Crow roads, they dump garbage on Crow lands, they get into disputes that involve Crow police. But until 1995, when the Crow started levying a 4 percent resort tax on businesses catering to tourists within the reservation, the tribe was getting little revenue from the millions of people who wanted to see where the man the Indians called Yellow Hair made his last stand.
The Crow were making a stand for sovereignty, and for economic survival. But many non-Indians on the reservation did not see it that way. They saw it as taxation without representation, and have refused to pay.
"I didn't persecute anybody at Plymouth Rock," said James Thompson, a tax opponent who owns Custer Battlefield Trading Company, just a stone's throw from where 210 soldiers fell. "This is the 1990's. We didn't do anything to them, and we don't owe them anything."
But what started as a local tax dispute around a battleground of great historical value has evolved into a legal and political fight that could have historic national implications. In the courts and in the United States Senate, the tax rebels are moving to exempt a large portion of land within Indian reservations from tribal jurisdiction -- and gaining allies with every move.
The issue is at the heart of American Indian sovereignty. It is as if the City of Minneapolis could tax and govern only the lands it owns, like parks and libraries, in the words of Tim Giago, the editor of Indian Country Today, a national weekly.
"This goes right to the jugular," Burton Pretty-On-Top, the Crow cultural affairs director, said, referring to a bill drafted by Senator Conrad Burns, Republican of Montana, to exempt some lands within the reservations from tribal rule.
When they were viewed simply as the first Americans who lost everything to the country that formed in their midst, Indians were on the defensive but it was considered politically unnecessary to attack them. But with new money from casino gambling, and a maturing of tribal power, Indians are no longer everybody's favorite underdog.
"You hear a lot more negative talk about these 'rich Indians,' " said Charles F. Wilkinson, a University of Colorado law professor and an authority on Indian law.
At the same time, political opponents -- mainly from the states where tribes have been flexing their sovereignty muscles -- are no longer shy about attacking new sources of Indian revenue and power.
New proposals in Congress would drastically curb sovereignty. Also, some governors are threatening to shut down the biggest source of Indian revenue, casino gambling, unless concessions are made.
"I think what we're seeing nationally are a series of attacks on the centuries-old right of Indian self-government," said Robert Coulter, a Potawatomi tribal member and executive director of the Indian Law Resource Center in Helena, Mont.
Indian leaders say it has been about 20 years since Congress last passed a major law regarding Indians over the objections of most tribes. This year, however, they are worried. In Congress, the outlook for beating back challenges is uncertain, particularly in the House, where measures designed to limit the expansion of Indian holdings and jurisdiction have nearly passed in each of the last two years.
The Supreme Court has been rebuffing the tribes of late -- shrinking the concept of Indian country, giving the states more power to limit Indian gambling.
Some of the people who are trying to restrict Indian rule simply do not like Indians' having any power over them, and they freely admit it. But others say what is really at stake is the concept of one country -- E. Pluribus Unum -- with a set of laws that apply to all people.
The very idea of parallel nations, folded into the states, is an anachronism that should be done away with, or least given a full hearing, they say.
"Citizens of the United States should not have their rights limited by separate governments within the United States," said Senator Slade Gorton, Republican of Washington. For nearly 30 years, that has been his battle cry. This year, he will try to make it the law of the land.
 
The Indian Fighter
A Senator's Case Against Tribes
To people who believe the tribes are out of line, Senator Gorton is a hero. On the Navajo reservation, though, Mr. Gorton is known as Kit Carson. It is not a compliment. Carson rounded up the Navajos in 1863, burned their food supply, cut down their orchards and marched the starving tribe to a holding area in the desert of southern New Mexico.
For three decades, first as Washington attorney general, now as a United States Senator with power over the Interior subcommittee that controls Indian money, Mr. Gorton has clashed with tribes.
At times he is openly scornful, saying, "Making a case out of what happened to your grandfather is not the best way to decide public policy." When he speaks of "treaty rights," he puts the term in quotations, as if it is a false premise or a pretext for fraud.
"These are peculiar treaties because they are clearly the law of the land, but they can also be abolished by Congress at will," he told The Congressional Quarterly last year.
As fashioned over two centuries of court rulings, Indian nations are stepchildren in the family of government: they have many powers equal to the states, but remain subordinate to the Federal Government. The Government is the trustee of Indian lands, but more often acts as the taker -- a profound conflict of interest, many legal experts say.
It is when Mr. Gorton talks about Indian sovereignty being unfair and unworkable that he wins most converts, even among some Democrats who back the tribes. His tactics, though, are another matter. His effort last year to link basic tribal financing to a weakening of sovereignty -- and then doing so without holding a single public hearing or meeting with the tribes -- angered even some supporters of restricting sovereignty.
Indians, as American citizens, are subject to the same laws as everybody else, with some exceptions. If an Indian commits a crime or a civil offense anywhere off the reservation, he will go through county, state or Federal court. On reservations, tribal police can arrest tribal members for minor crimes -- but have no jurisdiction over non-Indians. Major crimes like murder, racketeering or armed robbery, are prosecuted by the Federal authorities.
If someone tries to sue a tribe for damages, the claim usually goes to tribal court. Tribes, like local governments, often invoke sovereign immunity to limit the damage. It is an old concept, saying the tribal government cannot be held liable for some things. Otherwise, lawsuits would bankrupt a tribal government, particularly a small one.
Senator Gorton has introduced a bill designed to drastically weaken sovereign immunity for Indian tribes. Because Mr. Gorton is chairman of an Interior subcommittee that controls things as diverse as parks and financing for the National Endowment for the Arts, he has considerable powers to make deals and as such opponents of the measure are uncertain if they can defeat it.
Why raise such a fuss over a somewhat obscure concept? Mr. Gorton likes to bring up a case from his home state. Five years ago, Jered Gamache, age 18, was killed in a car accident on the Yakama Indian Reservation in Washington when a tribal police officer, in pursuit of a crime, ran a red light and smashed into the teen-ager's car.
"This family has no ability to hold the Yakama police or tribal government responsible for the actions of one of their officials in a neutral court," Mr. Gorton said.
The Gamaches are farmers -- not part of the tribe -- growing hops, apples and grapes on land they own in the reservation. They are an island within the island. Family members did not sue in tribal court, Bernard Gamache said in an interview, because they felt they could not win in an Indian court.
But do people like the Gamaches really have no other recourse for justice? Their recent actions would indicate that they do.
Quietly, the Gamache family recently settled their case out of court, after filing a claim against the tribe in Federal court in eastern Washington State. The Federal Government, as trustee of Indian lands, was held responsible, and the family was compensated, although Mr. Gamache said he was bound by secrecy rules from disclosing the amount.

The Business Gambit
Casinos as Leverage In Wisconsin Fight
Surrendering some tribal power is on the table now in Wisconsin, where Gov. Tommy G. Thompson, a Republican, is negotiating with the Indians over an extension of their casino agreements. Quietly, Governor Thompson is being cheered by other governors, who have been looking for ways to curb the casinos that have changed their states overnight.
Essentially, this fight goes to the nature of tribes. If the Indians want to act like businesses, Governor Thompson asserts, then they should be taxed and regulated, and forced to give up some of their old ties to the land.
The Indians of the upper Mississippi drainage have won Federal court decisions that changed the balance of power, assuring them of hunting and fishing rights over millions of acres in Wisconsin and Minnesota. Much of these lands is outside reservation boundaries.
Governor Thompson is trying to get the tribes to set strict limits on taking fish and wildlife. The Governor also wants the Indians to back off from their efforts to enforce clean water standards in the state -- a use of sovereign power offered to Indians by Congress 10 years ago, and now being explored by a few tribes.
In Minnesota, the state government has welcomed tribal entry into clean water regulation, even when it means stricter controls. "We're glad to have the help," said Dwayne Anderson, a manager at the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
Not so in Wisconsin, where politically powerful paper mills are prime polluters. Governor Thompson says the clean water standards proposed by the Indians are their effort to "stretch their reach off reservation."
The Governor's leverage is the source of Indian revival in his state -- the casinos run by 11 tribes -- which generate up to $260 million a year in revenue. They are up for state renewal this year.
The Oneida nation's casino, which opened in 1991, has given the tribe nearly full employment, and allowed it to buy hotels, a convention center, a printing plant and a wireless communications company, and build schools and senior centers. The Oneida are now the largest employer in the Green Bay area.
But the tribes have enemies, among them the Tavern League of Wisconsin, which says its members cannot compete with the cheap drinks and food at casinos.
Governor Thompson says he may not renew the agreement that allows the tribes to operate their casinos. Earlier, he was asked how he was going to make good on such a threat. "Watch me," he said.
The law that legalized Indian gambling allowed the tribes to open casinos on reservation land as long as the states agreed in a contract, called a compact. Before agreeing to a new compact, Governor Thompson wants the Indians to be taxed a certain percentage of their gambling revenue by the state -- they now give the state a flat fee of $350,000 total from all 11 tribes -- as a condition of compact renewal.
The Indians say the tax plan misses a vital point -- they are not corporations. They are governments, as the Supreme Court established in the 1830's. "If you had these conservative Republicans all of sudden trying to tax county governments or state lotteries people would look at them like they're crazy," said Bill Gollnick, an Oneida leader.
Treaty rights to water or hunting are upheld by the Constitution, as the supreme law of the land. But by tying these treaty rights to gambling, Governor Thompson has pitted Indian governing powers against the new buffalo of casino gambling.
"Keep in mind, the gaming compacts are not a treaty right," Governor Thompson said. "We are asking nothing from the tribes that exceeds the principles of reason and fairness."
The Indians see an old story: tribal success, followed by backlash. Congress has given Indians the tools to create jobs and secure a cleaner environment, and then a state like Wisconsin tries to thwart them.
The Oneida, who once made sovereignty agreements with the Dutch and the English in 17th century New York, now employ 5,874 people in northeast Wisconsin. What other job provider of that magnitude, they wonder, would have its very survival held up by a state governor?
 
The Tax Rebels
A Gathering Storm Over Reservations
Rumors and threats ride the hard Montana wind as it blows through the creaky, half-boarded up tribal buildings here at Crow Agency. Tension has grown. The tribe has placed liens on the property of people who refuse to pay Indian taxes.
"The backlash against the tribe has gotten to the point where I'm afraid things could get violent," said Jay Stovall, a rancher and Republican state legislator from Billings.
Mr. Stovall has a foot in both worlds. He is one-eighth Crow Indian, and a member of the tribe. But he wears an oversized cowboy hat and sympathizes with the non-Indians. Many of the Crow do not trust him.
He unfolds a big map of the Crow reservation, once covering 38 million acres, now around 2 million. It is a checkerboard of mixed ownership, a legacy of the 1887 Allotment Act, which led to the sale of nearly two-thirds of the property on Indian reservations, though it remains within tribal boundaries.
Back in 1876, Sitting Bull, the leader of the Lakota, had urged Indians never to give up the old ways.
"You are fools to make yourselves slaves to a piece of fat bacon, some hard-tack, and a little sugar and coffee," Mr. Stovall said.
The Indians run a little casino here now, which barely breaks even; they farm and own a few businesses. About 40 percent of the reservation is in non-Indian hands, Mr. Stovall said, even though the Crow, with a population of 7,153, make up big majority.
Nationally, only 140 of the 314 reservations have entirely tribally owned land within their boundaries, and nearly half the people who live on reservations are non-Indians.
"We are a private property," said Christopher Kortlander, who owns the town of Garryowen, a gas station and trading post near the battlefield. "We pay state, Federal and county taxes. Why should we have to pay Indian taxes? We're not Crow Indians, and we never will be."
To the Indians, the tax rebels are scofflaws who will never accept tribal authority. They point out that any Montana resident who drives across the border to Wyoming and buys something pays a sales tax -- without any say in how that tax was levied.
If this fight were just about the Crow and the Custerphiles, it might not mean much outside of Montana. But everyone in Indian country is watching the outcome.
"This bill from Senator Burns could be enormously dangerous," said Kevin Gover, head of the Bureau of Indian Affairs. Referring to a bill that would exempt all non-Indian land within reservations of Montana from tribal jurisdiction, Mr. Gover said, "It would take away a tribe's ability to defend and protect its community."
The people who sell Indian blankets, arrowheads and pictures pegged to the Little Bighorn battle say they will continue to balk at any tax payments to the Crow. "When I moved here, I had sympathy for the Indians," said James Thompson, the tax opponent and trading-post owner. "This has soured my view."
But in adversity, the tribes seem stronger, less given over to the feuds and jealousies that have plagued them in the past. When Senator Gorton first tried to knock down Indian sovereignty last year, the effect throughout Indian country was electric.
"Whether he knows it or not, Senator Gorton has done the tribes a favor," said Billy Frank Jr., a Nisqually Indian leader from Washington state. "He brought us together and underscored the need for Congress to get to know us better."
In New York City, a few blocks from Wall Street, a plaque inside the grand National Museum of the American Indian says simply, "We are still here." On the Crow Reservation, Mr. Pretty-On-Top, the cultural affairs director, makes the same point.
"We have great survival skills," he said. "We will weather this storm because we have weathered everything else. All we want is our own little spot in the sun."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Oneida Indian Nation in Green Bay, Wis., has built an elementary school with proceeds from a casino it opened in 1991. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times); Senator Slade Gorton of Washington is leading efforts to reduce tribal rights. (Reuters)(pg. A16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: MONTANA, USA (93%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

CITY: GREEN BAY, WI, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: SUPREME COURT (US) REPUBLICAN OF MONTANA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT (US) REPUBLICAN OF MONTANA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (96%); MONTANA, USA (93%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); GREEN BAY, WI, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: INDIANS, AMERICAN; SURVEYS AND SERIES; GAMBLING; CASINOS; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS AND SECESSION; STATES (US); TAXATION; GOVERNORS (US) TAXES & TAXATION (91%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CASINOS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TOURISM (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); GAMING (73%); ARMED FORCES (71%); LEGISLATION (67%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (63%); SUPREME COURTS (63%); 

PERSON: EGAN, TIMOTHY KENT CONRAD (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1998



205 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 9, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1130 words

HEADLINE: BUDGET SURPLUS SOWS DISSENSION ON CAPITOL HILL

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 8

 BODY:
Congress will begin work in earnest this week on its tax and spending plans for next year, energized by the prospect of big budget surpluses but deeply unsettled about politically charged issues like taxes and Social Security.
Already a rift has opened between House Republicans, who have remained aggressive and creative in looking for ways to cut taxes, and Senate Republicans, who are more cautious and appear inclined only to tinker with the balanced budget agreement hammered out by the Clinton Administration and Congress last year. 
 Democrats are trying to transform their longstanding role as opponents of sweeping tax cuts into a new one as guardians of the nation's long-term fiscal health, but have only partially muted their calls for expanded social programs.
Neither party shows signs of curbing its appetite for pork-barrel spending; Democrats and Republicans in the Senate are well on their way to passing a highway and mass transit bill that calls for spending at least $181 billion over the next six years. The measure may require some inventive accounting to keep from shattering the spending limits set by last year's budget deal.
This is the first time in two decades that Congress has been able to project surpluses for years to come. With prosperity pushing many longstanding assumptions about budget politics out the window, the process of setting tax and spending priorities in a Congressional election year will involve sorting through a cavalcade of new ideas, competing priorities and tentative judgments about tricky issues like Social Security.
The Senate Budget Committee will get the process formally under way this week when it drafts its tax and spending blueprint for next year. House leaders have decided to delay their budget decisions until the spring, partly in the hope that strong tax revenues in the next month will lead budget forecasters to project even bigger surpluses, giving them more leeway to accommodate calls for tax cuts.
"It's a very different world from anything I've known since I came to Congress," said Representative Bill Archer, a Texas Republican who was first elected to the House in 1970, a year after the Federal Government last posted a budget surplus.
One way to look at the political and policy cross-currents at work is through the differing approaches being taken by Senator Pete V. Domenici of New Mexico, the chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, and his counterpart in the House, Representative John R. Kasich of Ohio, both Republicans.
Mr. Domenici, a soft-spoken veteran of the budget wars, clearly has in mind a painful lesson from 13 years ago. He was among the Republicans who helped ram through the Senate in 1985 a measure to reduce Social Security's cost of living increases, only to see the measure die in the House. On record as favoring Social Security "cuts," Senate Republicans were attacked by Democrats over the issue in the following year's elections, helping Democrats retake control of the Senate.
With an eye toward this year's midterm elections, Mr. Domenici now seems willing to go along with President Clinton's call to put the projected budget surplus aside until Congress and the White House can reach a bipartisan agreement to insure Social Security's solvency as the baby boom generation retires. The budget plan Mr. Domenici is working on would leave the surpluses untouched and would call for about $30 billion in tax cuts over five years, only slightly more than the $24 billion called for by the President in his budget proposals.
The Domenici plan seeks to trump Mr. Clinton's call to save Social Security by proposing to use any money from a settlement with tobacco companies, as much as $65 billion, to shore up Medicare rather than on new spending programs, as Mr. Clinton has proposed.
Although Mr. Domenici's plan gives Republicans plenty of ammunition for an ideological debate with Democrats, especially over spending on social programs, Senate Republicans said they were determined not to risk being portrayed as putting tax cuts ahead of Social Security.
"The Administration desperately wants the Republicans to put their feet in the snares," said a Senate Republican aide who spoke on the condition of anonymity. "We've successfully avoided that."
But the House, as it typically has in the past few years, is taking a much more confrontational and ideological path. A group of House Republican leaders is continuing to meet to plot budget strategy for the year and has not yet made any decision on how to proceed.
Along with the rest of the House Republican leadership, however, Mr. Kasich wants the proceeds of any tobacco settlement to finance a tax cut rather than to go to Medicare or spending programs. And Mr. Kasich has weighed a wide variety of ideas for the use of any surpluses, which the Congressional Budget Office estimates would total $151 billion from this year through 2003.
As recently as several weeks ago he was calling for any substantial surpluses to be split equally between reducing the national debt and tax cuts. But last week Mr. Kasich went in a different direction, saying he was seriously considering allocating as much as 80 percent of any surpluses to financing personal retirement accounts for all working people as a first step toward fixing Social Security.
"This advances Social Security in a way that makes Americans more secure," Mr. Kasich said.
His proposal in many ways amounted to using the surplus for a tax cut, because it would return most of the surplus to the pockets of taxpayers, although most would not be able to spend it right away.
As such, it had appeal to some other Republicans in the House, where the demand for tax cuts has always been stronger than in the Senate. Mr. Archer, the chairman of the tax-writing Ways and Means Committee, said he too was studying the idea, and that it had some merit, but that it would preclude using the surplus for other types of tax relief for years to come.
"Clearly Social Security is now becoming a force within the debate over what we're going to do with any potential surplus," Mr. Archer said. "But this is a major new type of undertaking that needs a lot of consideration."
Other Republican leaders, including Speaker Newt Gingrich, showed some interest in Mr. Kasich's idea, but stopped short of endorsing it. The White House was quick to label Mr. Kasich's proposal a tax cut in disguise that would do little or nothing to address the underlying problems of Social Security.
"No matter what you name it or how you dress it up," said Gene Sperling, the White House economic policy adviser, "it's not consistent with reserving the surplus until we know what we need to do to have a long-term Social Security solution." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SENATE BUDGET COMMITTEE (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE BUDGET COMMITTEE (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FORECASTS; TAXATION; SOCIAL SECURITY (US) BUDGETS (95%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX LAW (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); LEGISLATION (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (79%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); COST OF LIVING (78%); POLITICS (77%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) PETE DOMENICI (59%); JOHN KASICH (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1998



206 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 9, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1130 words

HEADLINE: Hundreds Lose Food Stamps in Error Under U.S. Welfare Change

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA 

 BODY:
Since sweeping Federal welfare changes went into effect in New York more than six months ago, hundreds of the city's poorest immigrants have seen their food stamps cut off or sharply reduced because they were mistakenly ruled ineligible, according to welfare officials, immigrants and advocates for the poor.
The problem apparently stems from confusion over the new patchwork of Federal and state rules, which often require welfare workers to make complicated calculations to decide a family's eligibility for stamps. 
 State and city officials said that most people who have lost benefits simply no longer qualify under the stricter rules. But advocates said many eligible immigrant families, including some United States citizens, lost food stamps because of bureaucratic errors. And some families said they had to endure months of hardship before benefits were restored.
"I have never seen so much confusion," said Liz Krueger, associate director of the Community Food Resource Center, which helps families receiving welfare or food benefits. "People are losing food stamps -- some of them correctly, some of them incorrectly. And it's almost impossible for them to figure out which is true."
The changes began with a 1996 Federal law that barred legal immigrants from collecting Federal food stamps, with narrow exceptions for some refugees and other categories. Concerned that those new rules would hurt some of the most vulnerable New Yorkers, state lawmakers and Gov. George E. Pataki agreed to use state funds to continue food stamps for immigrants who are under 18, over 60 or disabled.
But implementing the state program has proved difficult. Local welfare workers must not only determine who is eligible, but also calculate food stamp allotments of the eligible individuals based on their share of the family's total income and expenses.
Between October and December, after the new laws went into effect, 1,170 people in the city whose food stamps were cut or reduced because they were considered "ineligible aliens" appealed to a state administrative judge. In 231 cases, the judge ordered benefits restored, according to state records. In addition, 721 cases were withdrawn, mostly because the city agreed voluntarily to restore the benefits, state officials said.
One who was mistakenly cut off was Maribel Rivera, a former garment worker from Mexico, whose $205 in food stamps for her 2-year-old twin boys was suddenly eliminated in October. Although the twins were born in this country -- meaning they are citizens and still eligible for benefits -- a letter from the city said simply, "You do not meet the criteria of the new food stamps rules."
With the help of Make the Road by Walking, an advocacy group based in Bushwick, Brooklyn, Ms. Rivera, who lives in neighboring Ridgewood, Queens, appealed and had the benefits restored a month later.
State welfare officials acknowledged that some people had been cut off by mistake and that some families' benefits had been miscalculated. State officials said they expected the kinks to be ironed out soon, when they modify the agency's computer program to help local workers with the new, more complicated calculations. Welfare workers, they said, can now do calculations by hand.
"Yes, some of that is happening," said Daniel D. Hogan, executive deputy commissioner for the State Office of Temporary and Disability Assistance, which administers state food stamps. "This is a massive new program."
Despite the problems, state officials are quick to point out that Albany's $83 million program has maintained benefits for about 67,000 immigrants who otherwise would have lost them entirely when the Federal law went into effect in August.
"We put a huge program in place in a very short period of time because the Federal Government cut them off," Mr. Hogan said, adding, "If there are mistakes, we do and will correct them."
Altogether, the number of people receiving food stamps in New York City through the Federal and state programs fell by about 130,000, to about 1,120,000 in December 1997 from 1,250,000 in January 1997. Mr. Hogan said he did not know how much of that decline reflected the tighter Federal rules, but he said a more robust city economy and efforts to crack down on food stamp fraud accounted for some of it.
Statewide, food stamps were cut off to about 70,000 immigrants because of the new Federal law, officials in Washington estimate.
The most widespread problem to result from the new laws, advocates for the poor say, is mistakes in the amount of food stamps allotted to immigrant families.
For instance, when, Jose Dominguez went to pick up food stamps in January for his family of four, he was told they had been cut to $16 from $309 a month. "They say because of the new law," recalled Mr. Dominguez, 37, of Park Slope.
Although the new welfare law bars Mr. Dominguez and his wife, legal immigrants from the Dominican Republic, from collecting food stamps, their two children, also legal immigrants aged 4 and 16, are entitled to state-financed food benefits because they are under 18.
Fred Arriaga, a lawyer at South Brooklyn Legal Services, said he believed the family's benefits were miscalculated and that they should now get $180 in stamps every month.
The Dominguez family's predicament, Mr. Arriaga said, is not unique. "I have yet to see anyone" whose benefits have been calculated properly, he said.
In the past, local welfare workers allocated food stamps to a household based on its size, the total household income -- from work or welfare -- and expenses.
Now, food stamps for each member of the household must be calculated separately, first based on individual eligibility for the Federal or state program and then figuring the individual's share of the total household income and expenses. (Illegal immigrants were never eligible.)
City welfare officials said the sharp drop in food stamp recipients reflected the decline in the number of people on welfare. Still, like the state officials, the city authorities acknowledged that mistakes had been made. Renalda Higgins Walker, a spokeswoman for the City Human Resources Administration, said, "Someone will fall through the cracks, but nowhere near the numbers that could have."
But for the city's poor, falling through the cracks can have grave consequences. When Rhonda Sancho's food stamp checks dwindled to $55 a month in January, from $171, she stretched it to buy enough milk and juice for her two children. "There's nothing left," said Ms. Sancho, 25, an immigrant from Guyana, as her 4-month-old son, Ancil, gurgled on her lap. "There's no money to buy meat, rice -- nothing."
Starting this month, Ms. Sancho has been told, her food stamps will be reduced to $10. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); FOOD STAMPS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES FOOD STAMPS (93%); IMMIGRATION (91%); FAMILY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); REFUGEES (78%); CITIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (71%); GARMENT WORKERS (71%); JUDGES (66%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (60%); 

PERSON: SENGUPTA, SOMINI EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (54%); EDDIE GEORGE (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1998



207 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 9, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 2005 words

HEADLINE: Caring for Poor, and for Profit;
Bronx Hospital Shakes Up the Medical Establishment

BYLINE: By IAN FISHER 

 BODY:
St. Barnabas Hospital in the Bronx was founded in 1866 as the Home for the Incurables, a place where people with cataclysmic strokes or crippling heart disease went to die. By the early 1980's, this anachronism of a hospital might have expired itself, but for its ambitious and enigmatic young president, Dr. Ronald Gade.
Dr. Gade tells how he imposed rigorous economies a decade before the rest of New York's health-care industry realized its own bloat. By reducing the size of the staff and discouraging long hospital stays, among other things, he not only saved St. Barnabas; he figured out something few before him had: how to make money -- lots of it -- caring for poor people. 
 "We were almost broke," he said. "We had to be efficient."
That efficiency soon translated into personal gain: a salary of $1 million a year, unusually high for a relatively small hospital. And Dr. Gade, a radiologist, began building an empire to match.
Over the last year and a half, he surprised the jealous world of New York medicine by locking up two huge city contracts worth almost $450 million, one to provide doctors for Lincoln Hospital in the South Bronx, the other to care for prisoners on Rikers Island. In the process, he and his hospital have become what Dr. Luis R. Marcos, head of the city hospital system, calls "sort of the intruder in the health-care industry." And those are words from one of Dr. Gade's strongest supporters.
In part, this is a matter of personality and personal history. A somewhat reclusive man who almost never grants interviews, Dr. Gade has always operated far from the fiercely competitive center of New York academic medicine. But his outsider status also has a lot to do with the way his cost-cutting strategies have challenged a medical establishment that remains notably behind the curve of the managed-care revolution in American medicine.
In short, he has placed himself square in the middle of a debate of almost operatic intensity: whether low-cost medicine can equal high-quality medicine.
To Dr. Marcos and other top city officials, St. Barnabas offers a model that the city would like to see replicated throughout its public health care system. To them, Dr. Gade offers much lower costs and quality they say is comparable to the big medical institutions', but with more accountability and less attitude. But to his critics -- who include competitors, union leaders, and doctors and health officials who disagree with his approach -- fewer doctors, fewer staff members and shorter hospital stays can lead only to a lower level of service.
In the debate, one statistic stands out: In February 1997, 345 prisoners at Rikers Island were sent to a hospital. This February, the second month since St. Barnabas took over medical care at the jail in a three-year, $342 million contract, the number was 121.
Dr. Gade and his supporters point to the drop as an impressive rendering of fat. They say that doctors have stopped referring inmates to hospitals for minor problems, and that routine procedures like blood tests as well as more specialized services like dermatology or orthopedics are being handled at the prison.
But Dr. Gade's critics worry that he may be sacrificing prisoners' health to make money.
"The concern we have -- and it's a concern with this whole H.M.O. approach -- is that there appear to be incentives not to send people to the hospital," said Robert Gangi, executive director of the Correctional Association of New York, which monitors the treatment of inmates.
It seems too early to draw either conclusion. And aside from accounts of sick prisoners waiting too long for hospital care or overworked Lincoln residents waiting for outside specialists, no major problems have gained attention outside the institutions' walls.
Beyond the partisans, though, many more people in New York's health-care industry are following this latest step in Dr. Gade's career.
"Ron Gade has been a pioneer in looking at new approaches in cost-effective health care," said Pamela S. Brier, a former top city health official who is the executive vice president of Maimonides Medical Center in Brooklyn. "But the health care community is really watching to see whether he can couple this pioneering approach with the maintenance and improvement of health care standards that benefits the patients.
"The jury is still out."
 
Criticism Dismissed As Rivals' Jealousy
Dr. Gade, who is 53, seems wearily aware that he is destined to play the heavy. But he brushed aside his critics' charges as motivated by ignorance and jealousy.
"A lot of people just don't know very much about us," he said, breaking his habitual public silence in a long interview at St. Barnabas, at 183d Street in Fordham-Tremont. "And so they look at the fact that we're a successful hospital and try to superimpose their template of: 'We can't do it; why should they be able to?' "
It is simply careful management that has left St. Barnabas positioned so well against other competitors now, Dr. Gade said. He said he had stemmed losses of roughly $10 million a year by using technology like automated laboratories, computers for billing and records, and machinery for quick diagnoses that avoid the need for multiple tests. Last year, the nonprofit hospital was more than $13 million in the black.
Perhaps most important, as the hospital grew, were changes in two crucial areas: staffing and revenue. Today, he said, St. Barnabas uses far fewer workers -- about three per bed when other hospitals rely on five or more -- without compromising care.
On the revenue side, he greatly increased income from a source long shunned by many hospitals -- Medicaid, the government insurance for the poor. Medicaid's reimbursement rates were traditionally low, but they have become more attractive as managed care drives down what private insurers will pay. When Dr. Gade took over, fewer than 10 percent of St. Barnabas's patients were on Medicaid; more than half are today.
"You can do very well on Medicaid," he said. "And as a result, we have."
Although opinion in St. Barnabas's mostly poor Fordham-Tremont neighborhood seems divided on how good the hospital is, state regulatory officials have not cited it for major problems in quality. And Dr. Marcos said he had not seen major problems at Lincoln or Rikers, either.
"We don't have any evidence to support the notion that the quality of care is any worse," he said. "In fact, we have evidence to the contrary." He said, for example, that the number of incidents of bad care at Lincoln that needed to be reported to the state were down.
Dr. Gade himself is fond of citing his route to St. Barnabas as proof that money is not his first concern, even though he admits his salary is "without question a lot of money."
In 1980, Dr. Gade gave up what he said was a highly profitable private practice on Long Island to become head of radiology at St. Barnabas, after 15 other doctors turned down the job. The hospital is not affiliated with the Roman Catholic Church or the medical center in New Jersey with the same name.
It was, he said, "the worst hospital I had ever been to in my entire life," debt ridden and adrift as it made the transition from what was essentially a nursing home to an acute-care hospital. In 1983, he became its president, and began dismissing many doctors and opening clinics and a new emergency room. (That internal growth has continued with several expansions of the emergency room, the creation of a health maintenance organization and a nursing home, and the takeover of nearby Union Hospital, which was turned into an ambulatory care clinic.)
But the extent of his ambition has become clear only in the last several years. First, in 1996, came the three-year contract to provide doctors to Lincoln Medical and Mental Health Center. Dr. Gade's approach drew praise from city health officials and cries of shock from the medical establishment. Not only did he dismiss or fail to rehire a significant number of doctors on the way to shrinking the medical staff; he abandoned the model of having residents provide much of the care. The idea was to have the work done by far fewer attending doctors, with many medical specialties performed by groups of doctors outside the hospital but on call. (Residents say these doctors come only late and reluctantly.)
 
Doctors Allege Dangerous Savings
While the academic tradition that Dr. Gade has de-emphasized is often criticized as costly, residents and senior doctors at Lincoln soon complained that staffing had become so low that it endangered patient care. The cuts, they said, had left clinics overcrowded and the residents often without proper supervision. Doctors were also told they could be dismissed at any time.
"Any time a physician is fired, the care becomes episodic and discontinuous," said Dr. Joseph Z. Kazigo, a Lincoln surgeon active in an ongoing effort to form a union. "To me that is not the mark of good care or of a good hospital."
Dr. Gade, along with Dr. Marcos, offers a somewhat conflicting account of success at Lincoln. On one hand, they contend patient care has actually improved, citing the fact that the hospital passed national accreditation in November.
On the other hand, both say the transition in some departments has been rocky, and Dr. Gade now concedes he has had to hire more doctors than he anticipated.
He also seemed to provide ammunition to opponents who accuse him of low-balling the bid by conceding that St. Barnabas would probably lose money on the deal.
By contrast, the contract to provide medical services at Rikers Island, where roughly 133,000 prisoners cycle in and out each year, has been going so well, Dr. Gade said, that he may have to return "windfall profits" to the city.
At Rikers, it is again a clash of philosophy that separates St. Barnabas from the previous provider of medical care, Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx, which had had the contract since the early 1970's. City health officials had felt that Montefiore sent prisoners on costly trips to hospitals at the first sign of medical problems. Montefiore officials say they acted in the interests of patients' health, but in this latest contract, the city made the winner liable for all hospitalization. St. Barnabas has pursued that notion with zeal.
In addition to the huge overall drop in Rikers patients' visits to hospitals, one official in the city hospital system said that nonpsychiatric visits to Bellevue Hospital, one of three hospitals used by Rikers, had dropped markedly. On Jan. 5, when St. Barnabas took over, there were 23 such patients in Bellevue's prison ward. On Feb. 3, there were only 6.
"There are people who are sick that should be in the hospital but they are not being referred," said the official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. "People are worried, even down to the clerks."
Dr. Gade disputes the contention that he is reluctant to send patients to a hospital, saying that in fact care is better with the addition of round-the-clock specialists in emergency medicine. The number of visits, he said, has dropped so greatly because more routine medical procedures like sutures or blood tests are performed at Rikers, as are more specialty services like dermatology or orthopedics.
"There is plenty of money in the contract to pay for hospitalization, and we are not going to take the risk with someone's life," he said.
The Rikers deal has also engendered a lawsuit, with one of the losing bidders, St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan, arguing that the city improperly awarded the contract to a bidder with no experience in prison health care.
In a sense, that suit is a measure of St. Barnabas's surprising rise. Until St. Barnabas won the contract, it was barely considered a player by its big-name rivals, said St. Vincent's medical director, Dr. Lambert N. King, who once ran the health system at Rikers.
"We frankly didn't consider them to be competition," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dr. Ronald Gade, president of St. Barnabas Hospital in the Bronx. "We were almost broke," he said. "We had to be efficient." A patient getting a CAT scan at St. Barnabas Hospital, where Dr. Gade has cut costs. John and Sandra Sapp and their newborn, Johnae, in the birthing room at St. Barnabas Hospital, in the Fordham-Tremont section. (Photographs by Jack Manning/The New York Times)
 
Chart: "An Expanding Empire"
St. Barnabas Hospital in the Bronx, where Dr. Ronald Gade became president in 1983, has grown rapidly.
 
'90
Fordham Plaza clinic opened.
 
'93
Nursing home added.
 
'96
Grand Concourse clinic opened.
Awarded 3-year, $94 million city contract to supply doctors to Lincoln Hospital in the South Bronx.
 
'97
Emergency room expanded for the fourth time to accomodate as many as 70,000 visits a year.
Bruckner Boulevard clinic opened.
Methadone maintenance program started.
Awarded 3-year, $342 million city contract to oversee medical services at Rikers Island.
 
'98
Hospital's first maternity ward opened.
Concourse Village clinic opened.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: ST BARNABAS HOSPITAL (BRONX); LINCOLN HOSPITAL (NYC); RIKERS ISLAND PRISON COMPLEX (NYC) ST BARNABAS HOSPITAL (79%); 

ORGANIZATION: ST BARNABAS HOSPITAL (BRONX); LINCOLN HOSPITAL (NYC); RIKERS ISLAND PRISON COMPLEX (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HOSPITALS; DOCTORS; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; LABOR HOSPITALS (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (87%); HEART DISEASE (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); STROKES (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); LABOR UNIONS (68%); CITIES (66%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (62%); 

PERSON: GADE, RONALD (DR); FISHER, IAN RONALD GADE (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1998



208 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 9, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1438 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-9
 
U.S. Offers Russia a Deal To Stop Iran's Missile Plan
The United States is offering Russia the opportunity to expand its lucrative business launching foreign satellites if it clamps down on the sale of missile technology to Iran, senior American officials say. The plan is part of broad effort to discourage Russia from helping Iran develop a new surface-to-surface missile. A1
 
Islamic Women Speak Out
More Islamic women's groups are speaking out against what they call the Muslim system of apartheid, where texts of the Koran and a range of appendages attached in the Middle Ages are invoked to deny equal rights to women. The issue of how women are viewed is at the heart of much conflict in Muslim nations, from fundamentalist policies in Afghanistan and Iran to demands to abolish discrimination in family laws in Morocco and Tunisia. A1 

Serbs Claim Kosovo Victory
A three-day assault on the city of Prekaz by Serbian police and paramilitary units ended over the weekend, with Belgrade claiming victory over ethnic Albanian separatists in the southern Serbian province of Kosovo. Serbian officials said at least 26 ethnic Albanians and 2 police officers were killed, but there were indications that the toll may have been much higher. A3
 
The Foreign Ministers of the United States, France and Germany agreed on the need for "firm and clear measures" to stop the violence in Kosovo before it spreads. But with an emergency meeting scheduled for today in London, it was not clear that they agreed what those measures should be. Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright said the Serbs should recognize "the legitimate political rights" of the ethnic Albanians. A3
 
Suharto Cool to I.M.F. Plan
President Suharto of Indonesia said that the open economic system promoted by the International Monetary Fund may not be right for his country, where the economy is based on "family principles," an Indonesian political leader said. The President's remarks came two days after the I.M.F. said it would delay the release of $3 billion to Indonesia. A8
 
TV Suicide Stirs Debate in Spain
A national debate in Spain on legal assisted suicide took an unexpected turn last week when a Spanish television station broadcast a homemade video that showed a quadriplegic man, Ramon Sampedro, saying farewell and then drinking cyanide-laced water through a straw. Mr. Sampedro had fought unsuccessfully for years in the courts to be helped to die. A9
 
A Recommendation for Turkey
Turks and their American friends maintained at the annual conference of the American-Turkish Council that the alliance between their countries is more vital than ever, but would not develop fully until Turkey improved its human rights record and presented its case more forcefully to Congress. A9
 
NATIONAL A10-16
 
Congress in a New World Of Taxes and Spending
Congress will begin work in earnest this week on its tax and spending plans for next year. With prosperity having pushed many of the assumptions about budget politics out the window, the process of setting tax and spending priorities will involve sorting through a cavalcade of new ideas, competing priorities and tentative judgments about taking on tricky issues like Social Security in a Congressional election year. A1
 
Whitewater Figure Dies
James B. McDougal, whose accounts of business dealings with Bill and Hillary Rodham Clinton led to the sprawling Whitewater investigations, died in a hospital in Fort Worth, Tex., where he was imprisoned. Investigators have lost an important figure who would have been in a position to corroborate whatever new evidence they might receive from another witness in the inquiry. A1
 
Effort to Curb Sex Diseases
Alarmed by high rates of some of the most common sexually transmitted infections, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention this year is beginning a far-reaching campaign to curb sexually transmitted diseases. Outside experts describe it as the most intense Federal effort of its kind since World War II. A1
 
Stalemate on Patients' Rights
A Presidential commission that recommended a bill of rights for patients is deadlocked over how to enforce those rights. With its final meeting set for Thursday, the panel cannot agree on whether new Federal laws are needed to protect consumers against abuses by health insurance companies. A12
 
Clinton Showing Bitterness
Almost two months into his worst political crisis, President Clinton rarely betrays any strain to most of his White House staff and friends. He feels that to show distraction or dismay, his aides said, would be to hand a victory to his antagonist, the independent counsel, Kenneth W. Starr. But the President is increasingly bitter about what he sees as the poisonous atmosphere in Washington, his friends said, and that attitude sometimes bubbles to the surface. A13
 
Immunizations for Meningitis
Rhode Island health officials have begun a mass immunization program in response to a growing number of cases in the state of meningococcal meningitis, a form of bacterial meningitis. The disease has claimed the lives of 3 young Rhode Islanders over the last two months and has infected at least 12 people in that small state. The state hopes to inoculate some 250,000 people over the next six months at a cost of around $7 million. A10
 
Snow and Wind Hound Midwest
More than a foot of snow driven by winds of up to 40 m.p.h. paralyzed travel across the central Plains and Midwest, resulting in one traffic death. A 250-mile stretch of Interstate 80 across Nebraska was closed for a second day. A10
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-7
 
Jury Selection to Start In Death Penalty Case
Nearly three years after New York State reinstated capital punishment, jury selection is to begin this week in the first trial in which a murder defendant faces a possible death sentence under the new law. Darrel K. Harris, a former New York City correction officer who was honored for heroism as a jail guard in the 1980's, is accused of murdering three people while robbing them in 1996. B1
 
Raucous Rally on Park Plan
In what was part a carefully staged media event and part a screaming match, lawmakers and people on both sides of the Hudson River Park plan gathered for a rally in advance of today's scheduled introduction of legislation to create the park. B6
 
Food Stamp Cuts Criticized
In the six months since sweeping Federal welfare changes went into effect in New York, hundreds of the city's poorest immigrants have seen their food stamps cut off or sharply reduced because they were mistakenly ruled ineligible, say welfare officials, immigrants and advocates for the poor. State and city officials said that most people who have lost benefits simply no longer qualify under the stricter rules. B1
 
OBITUARIES B8-9
 
Leonie Rysanek
The Austrian soprano whose illustrious international career spanned nearly 40 years was 71. B9
 
Sydney Gruson
The former bellboy who became a foreign correspondent renowned for his informed and energetic reporting, the foreign editor of The New York Times and then a corporate executive of The Times Company was 81. B8
 
Ray Nitschke
The linebacker who was the defensive anchor on the Green Bay Packer teams in the 1960's that won five N.F.L. titles, including the first two Super Bowls, was 61. B9
 
BUSINESS DAY D1-10
 
'99 Computer Glitch
On Jan. 1, 1999, the European Monetary Union will introduce the euro, a new currency that could have serious consequences for the computer systems of just about any company dealing in foreign currencies. D1
 
Web Booksellers Do Battle
The leading Internet booksellers -- including Barnes & Noble and Amazon.com -- are locked in a fight for dominance, market share, strategic alliances and customer loyalty. D1
 
Stocks Higher in Tokyo
Stocks were trading higher in Tokyo today. At midday the Nikkei index of 225 issues was up 134.36 points, or 0.78 percent, at 17,266.33. Stocks were lower on both the South Korean and Hong Kong indexes in morning trading. (Bloomberg News)
 
Business Digest D1
 
SPORTSMONDAY C1-12
 
ARTS E1-10
 
EDITORIAL A18-19
 
Editorials: What's the rush on NATO?; the money groupie; let the charter be; a choice for Puerto Rico.
Columns: Anthony Lewis, William Safire.
 
Bridge E7 
 
Metro. Diary B2 
 
Crossword E7
 
Weather A17

GRAPHIC: Photos.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); SERBIA (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); TURKEY (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); KOSOVO (93%); ALBANIA (93%); INDONESIA (93%); SPAIN (92%); FRANCE (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); MOROCCO (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (54%); 

COMPANY: SICOME SA (69%); I M F PLAN (62%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: I M F PLAN (62%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); SERBIA (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); TURKEY (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); KOSOVO (93%); ALBANIA (93%); INDONESIA (93%); SPAIN (92%); FRANCE (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); MOROCCO (79%); GERMANY (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (54%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); FUNDAMENTALISM (76%); GENDER EQUALITY (76%); QURAN & ISLAMIC TEXTS (76%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (76%); DISCRIMINATION (76%); RELIGION (76%); WOMEN (76%); RACE & RACISM (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); FAMILY (73%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (72%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (72%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (72%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS (69%); SUICIDE (69%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); ASSISTED SUICIDE (69%); POLITICAL DEBATES (68%); FAMILY LAW (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (64%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (60%); CYANIDES (50%); PARALYSIS (50%); 

PERSON: RAMON SAMPEDRO (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1998



209 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 9, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1565 words

HEADLINE: Heirs Try to Keep A Black Press Heritage Alive

BYLINE: By NICHOLE M. CHRISTIAN 

 BODY:
When John Sengstacke, the longtime chairman of Sengstacke Enterprises, died last spring, he left behind three things. First, a chain of black-owned newspapers, most notably The Chicago Defender, which is closely linked to 20th-century black history. Second, a family trust, the legal owner of the estate's assets, including the newspapers. And third, six grandchildren, the beneficiaries of the trust.
He also left two sets of instructions. To Northern Trust, the bank that he named trustee of the trust in 1975, he gave orders that his heirs have maximum financial security. From his oldest granddaughter, Myiti Sengstacke, he extracted a promise that the newspapers would stay in the family. 
 Now, the 26-year-old Ms. Sengstacke has decided to replace Northern Trust as trustee, fearing that its dedication to its fiduciary duties would result in the sale of the newspapers and force her to break her promise.
For what John Sengstacke did not leave behind was $4 million to pay his estate's tax bill. His chief assets -- four newspapers, including The Defender, a pioneering daily, and tons of publishing equipment -- are tied up in the trust fund.
Ms. Sengstacke recently dismissed Northern Trust and is embarking on the delicate task of finding a successor trustee and investors willing to step into the middle of a classic family business problem.
The closely held chain, which also includes weeklies in Detroit, Memphis and Pittsburgh, is valued at $10 million to $12 million before taxes. Like many other businesses that focus on ethnic minorities, the newspapers have lately found themselves struggling to keep up with the changing tastes and rising incomes of a market that is becoming increasingly attractive to advertisers.
Considering the black populations of the cities that the newspapers serve, some media experts say the papers are an untapped gold mine for an investor with enough cash and vision to modernize.
The chain's most profitable paper, The Michigan Chronicle, has a circulation of just more than 43,000 in a city with the nation's highest percentage of blacks in its population, 75.7 percent, or just more than one million people. The Defender's paid circulation is now 17,000 to 19,000, down from its high of 50,000 in the 1950's.
Reports in both papers lack the drama of the days of Jim Crow laws or the civil rights movement and urban riots of the 1960's and reflect a more affluent, if more complicated, era. Articles in both papers in recent days have focused on subjects ranging from the arrival of casino gambling in Detroit to new black business ventures.
"There is money to be made by black newspapers in the future," said Jake Oliver, the publisher of The Afro American, a weekly newspaper in Baltimore, "especially now that major corporations are beginning to reach out to the market we serve and are realizing that these newspapers are one of the fastest ways to get the minority audience."
It is unclear why Mr. Sengstacke allowed a company with one of black America's richest heritages to end up in the hands of a white bank instead of its founding family.
The Defender, a tabloid, helped nurture the careers of writers like Langston Hughes and W. E. B. Du Bois, a founder of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People. And long before white politicians began to oppose the South's Jim Crow laws, The Defender published editorials decrying the treatment of black sharecroppers and promising a better life in Chicago's factories.
Many black intellectuals and business leaders thought that newspapers with this heritage would remain under Sengstacke control well into the next century. But for Northern Trust, which also serves as the executor of John Sengstacke's estate, the immediate issues were settling the estate and raising money to pay the taxes. A sale of the newspapers seemed in order; the race of the buyer was irrelevant.
"The greatest failure in estate planning is not communicating your plan to the people it will affect," said Mark Rubin, founder of the Metropolitan Group, a family-business consulting firm in New Jersey. "You wouldn't expect a trustee to have an interest broader than the financial interest." Finding a successor trustee, he added, is not unusual, but in some cases such a move can jeopardize both the company and family harmony.
What happens now that the company is off the auction block depends largely on whether Ms. Sengstacke can find a bank to back her plan. If she fails, the company will revert to Northern Trust's control.
"This is not an easy trust assignment," said Elias Matsakis, a lawyer with McBride, Baker & Cole in Chicago, the firm representing Ms. Sengstacke. "But we're pleased with the recognition that a number of major Chicago financial institutions have for the legacy this family is attempting to preserve."
Mr. Matsakis said six banks in Chicago and Detroit had already met with Ms. Sengstacke about the trust. He declined, however, to identify them or say whether they included black-owned institutions.
One option suggested by Ms. Sengstacke's advisers involves paying off the tax debt and then reorganizing the company under either a merger or the issuance of additional stock, possibly nonvoting common stock. Another possibility would be to have an investor pay off the debt in exchange for nonvoting preferred stock.
Assuming such options are viable, Ms. Sengstacke said, her family would quickly put together a management team to entice advertisers and try to lure back many of the black readers, now middle class, who have abandoned black newspapers across the country for more upscale newspapers and magazines.
"The challenge," said Larry Grimes, president of W. B. Grimes, a Maryland media brokerage firm, "is to convince the advertising community that the markets these papers serve is made up of professionals and families and not just the unemployed people that are perceived."
The newspapers in the Sengstacke chain have spent several generations battling preconceptions. John Sengstacke inherited the company from his uncle, Robert Sengstacke Abbott, who was the son of former slaves. Robert S. Abbott, who turned himself into one of America's first black millionaires, sat in a one-room apartment in downtown Chicago in 1905 and drew up The Defender's first issue with just 25 cents worth of pencils and paper.
When his nephew and heir, John Sengstacke, died last year, Myiti Sengstacke was attending Hampton University, the same historically black college in Virginia that her grandfather attended, at his uncle's instructions, to learn the business.
Robert Sengstacke, who is Myiti's father and John Sengstacke's only living child, said in an interview that his family's quandary epitomized the problems family businesses face when no clear heir is groomed. He said he had been overlooked in favor of his children because of a feud with his father.
Ms. Sengstacke maintains that her decision to remove Northern Trust is in the best interest of her family. "We never saw eye to eye about my grandfather's intentions for the company," said Ms. Sengstacke, who said she was acting as the proxy for her brothers and sister.
She added: "This is something we've given a lot of thought to. We understand that the trust has to be funded and that we have to be taken care of."
For its part, Northern Trust called Ms. Sengstacke's move a disappointment, saying, "We believe we have acted from the outset to follow faithfully the clear directions left by John Sengstacke in the trust and to serve the best interest of all the trust beneficiaries." The trust controls 65 percent of the company's stock on behalf of Mr. Sengstacke's grandchildren. Nine other family members control the rest.
When the Sengstacke board and its minority shareholders, including Robert Sengstacke, voted to sell, Ms. Sengstacke was the only person to oppose the decision publicly. Soon after the vote, she stepped down from a management trainee post at the Detroit paper to spend more time devising a plan to block the sale. She is living on savings, though she continues to sit on the board along with a great-uncle and three Northern Trust appointees, who will remain until a successor trustee is chosen.
People who have seen the Sengstacke trust documents say they include a clause allowing any two dissatisfied adult beneficiaries to seek a successor trustee. These people say Ms. Sengstacke persuaded two brothers, Saief, 24, and Omhari, 20, to sign a letter to Northern Trust notifying it of their dissatisfaction. She then met with the bank one last time before serving notice, thus blocking the sale.
Those in the black community who fear the end of black ownership are cautiously watching Ms. Sengstacke's efforts, some even preparing their own purchase plans should she fail.
"If it's not owned and operated by a black group, we will begin a boycott," said the Rev. Al Sampson, pastor of Fernwood United Methodist Church and head of a community coalition that is meeting with investors and starting a subscription drive. "This will not be another one of our institutions that dies because black people didn't try to save it."
And Ms. Sengstacke said: "My grandfather could have sold this company to anybody he wanted to before he died. He left it for us because he knew we would carry the torch and keep the legacy alive."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sengstacke Enterprises' future is in the hands of Myiti Sengstacke, 26, whose grandfather asked her to keep the newspaper chain in the family. (Lloyd DeGrane for The New York Times)(pg. D8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NTRS (NASDAQ) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SENGSTACKE ENTERPRISES INC; MICHIGAN CHRONICLE; CHICAGO DEFENDER (NEWSPAPER); NORTHERN TRUST CORP NORTHERN TRUST CORP (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENGSTACKE ENTERPRISES INC; MICHIGAN CHRONICLE; CHICAGO DEFENDER (NEWSPAPER); NORTHERN TRUST CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NEWSPAPERS; BLACKS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; FINANCES; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (92%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (92%); PAID CIRCULATION (89%); PUBLISHING (78%); FAMILY COMPANIES (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); HISTORY (72%); TAX LAW (72%); ETHNIC GROUPS (69%); CIVIL RIGHTS (64%); RIOTS (64%); ETHNICITY (50%); GAMING (50%); CASINOS (50%); 

PERSON: CHRISTIAN, NICHOLE M; SENGSTACKE, JOHN H (1912-97); SENGSTACKE, MYITI JOHN SENGSTACKE (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1998



210 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 9, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 855 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
After taking some recent lumps, Texas Instruments may be poised for an upturn.

BYLINE: By Allen R. Myerson 

DATELINE: DALLAS

 BODY:
THOMAS J. ENGIBOUS, the chief executive of Texas Instruments, wasted no time Thursday in putting an upbeat chip industry forecast delivered by his economist, Vladi Catto, in the right perspective.
"I'm always encouraged by what Vladi says," Mr. Engibous told about 160 analysts and money managers at his company's annual conference. "But judging by what the market says, I'm the only one who is." 
 He was alluding not only to the 12.5 percent plunge in Intel's stock price that day on a gloomy earnings outlook issued the day before but also to the 3.75 percent decline in his company's shares, to $52.9375. Motorola likewise warned late Thursday of disappointing earnings because of weak chip sales in Asia. But on Friday, Texas Instruments shares rose $1.5625, to $54.50.
Unlike Intel, Texas Instruments is becoming less and less attached to the personal computer industry -- a combination of good luck, years of planning and efforts by Mr. Engibous since he became chief executive at age 43 less than two years ago.
Only one of the company's 10 largest customers makes personal computers, down from about about 6 of 10 in the early 1990's. Today, the largest customers for the company's chips are Nokia, Ericsson and other telecommunications manufacturers.
Mr. Engibous has bet the company's future on specialized chips, called digital signal processors. While these chips are used in computer components like modems and hard drives, they are finding rapidly growing markets ranging from cellular telephones, computer networking equipment and cars to talking dolls and precision scales used in fishing tournaments.
As in any yard sale where someone else is not paying for the move, Mr. Engibous has sold off some items that were valuable but too heavy to take along. The military electronics business went to Raytheon, the laptop computer business to Acer.
For investors willing to differentiate among semiconductor stocks, Texas Instruments appears to be better poised to resist the industry's afflictions. While the first quarter looks weak enough to justify some caution, the rest of the year might be almost as encouraging as Mr. Engibous hopes.
Over recent months, analysts, with the company's guidance, have been trimming their first-quarter estimates to less than 50 cents a share from 66 cents a year earlier. They cite Asian financial turmoil and slower growth in demand from American customers in businesses including personal computers. The company's current weakness and short-term outlook account for a decline in its stock from a peak of $71.25 on Oct. 13.
The full year, and next year, are different stories. Though the current price-to-earnings ratio hovers around 70, analysts' expectations of a rebound for the full year mean that the ratio based on forecasts of 1998 earnings is only about 22. For the semiconductor industry as a whole, Mr. Catto said, last year's 4 percent growth in revenue, constrained by a nearly two-thirds drop in prices for memory chips, will rise to 10 percent this year, then 20 percent to 35 percent next year, as memory chip prices recover and Asia rebounds.
The glut of memory chips, or D-RAM's, is likely to subside later this year because Japanese and Korean makers have sharply cut their investments in new plants and equipment. The prime beneficiary will be Micron Technologies, whose shares rose $1.5625, to $34.5625, on Thursday even as other semiconductor stocks fell. Micron, which specializes in memory chips, is challenging Samsung of Korea for the largest share of the market.
Analysts and investors continued pressing Texas Instruments on Thursday to unload its memory chip business, a steady money-loser that even in good times remains highly volatile. Mr. Engibous refused, as usual, to make any promises.
But just watch what he does, not what he says. Abandoning a previous strategy of sharing the memory chip risks through joint ventures, he has recently sold the company's interest in a partnership with Acer of Taiwan and ended the Twin Star joint venture with Hitachi of Japan. The Twin Star plant, near Dallas, could be converted to making digital signal processors.
These chips, which are much less versatile than Intel's microprocessors but much faster, translate inputs such as sound and light into the ones and zeros of digital signals in products like cellular phones, automobiles and camcorders.
The growth in sales of these chips has consistently exceeded 30 percent, with Texas Instruments growing even more rapidly, controlling about half the market. "We don't use the word dominate," Mr. Engibous said, his manner about as coy as a tornado. "But we're trying to get more and more every day."
Texas Instruments thus argues that it deserves better treatment from investors than they are giving Intel.
And, in fact, some analysts are advising nervous investors who still want to play technology stocks to look at Texas Instruments. "There has been a lot of money in Intel that will be looking for another home," said Michael Gumport of Lehman Brothers. "The Texas Instruments story is much more compelling." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: TXN (NASDAQ) (92%); INTC (NASDAQ) (85%); MSI (NYSE) (56%); RTN (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (92%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (92%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (56%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (53%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); 

COUNTRY: ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (73%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (73%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC; INTEL CORP TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (92%); INTEL CORP (85%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (56%); RAYTHEON CO (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC; INTEL CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (73%); TEXAS, USA (73%); DALLAS, TX, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; PERSONAL COMPUTERS; COMPUTER CHIPS; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES ELECTRONICS (90%); COMPUTER CHIPS (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (88%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); MICROPROCESSORS (78%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (77%); DIGITAL SIGNAL PROCESSING (73%); COMPUTER MAKERS (73%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (72%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (72%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (72%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (70%); SEMICONDUCTORS (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (66%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (65%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (64%); MODEMS (64%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (64%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (57%); SPORT FISHING (50%); 

PERSON: MYERSON, ALLEN R THOMAS J ENGIBOUS (94%); VLADI CATTO (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1998



211 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 9, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1099 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Is Pressing Moscow on Iran And Missile Aid

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, March 8

 BODY:
The United States is offering Russia an opportunity to expand its lucrative business launching foreign satellites if it clamps down on the sale of missile technology to Iran, senior American officials say.
The American position has been conveyed confidentially to the Russians and is part of a broad effort to discourage Russian companies and institutes from helping Iran develop a new surface-to-surface missile. 
 The offer is potentially worth hundreds of millions of dollars to Russian companies and the Western companies that have formed partnerships with them.
"We are prepared to go forward and enhance cooperation in this area, but we cannot do it in the absence of progress on the Iran ballistic missile front," a senior Clinton Administration official said today.
Washington has long been worried about Russian nuclear cooperation with Iran. More recently the United States has also become concerned about Iran's effort to develop missiles that could carry a nuclear warhead, poison gas or germ weapons.
The nuclear and missile issues are on the agenda of this week's Washington meetings between Vice President Al Gore and Prime Minister Viktor S. Chernomyrdin of Russia.
Many of the satellites launched are American, and the United States already has an agreement that permits a limited number of Russian satellite launches.
Iran has been developing a new missile, called the Shahab 3, that has a range of about 800 miles -- long enough to reach Israel and Saudi Arabia and more than twice the range of a Scud missile.
American intelligence experts expect Iran to flight-test the missile over the next year or so. Much of the missile design is based on North Korean technology. Increasingly, however, American officials have become worried about the flow of missile technology from Russia.
Under strong American pressure, the Russians have taken a number of steps, including a new decree by President Boris N. Yeltsin tightening controls on the export of missile know-how to Iran. But American officials are waiting to see if the Russians strictly enforce the measure.
If the Russians do crack down, Washington is willing to ease limits on Russia's launching of foreign satellites, American officials say.
"This is not a carrot that is being created for this issue," said an American specialist, who like some of the others willing to discuss the issue, spoke on condition of anonymity. "The idea of allowing more launches is something that makes commercial sense, unless something disturbs the atmosphere and makes it difficult to do. If Iran did not exist, it is something that would probably proceed."
Certainly, the easing of the limits could be a major boost for Russia's hard-strapped space program and a boon for the American companies, which have begun to join forces with the Russians in offering services launching communications, imaging and navigational satellites.
The current limits on satellite launches are enshrined in a 1996 agreement, which was signed by Mr. Gore and Mr. Chernomyrdin. Using a complicated formula, it limits the launches of foreign satellites that are placed in stationary orbits 22,300 miles above the earth, enabling the satellite to stay over a fixed spot.
The 1996 accord sought to protect American companies from Russian competition. Since then, however, the space launch business has changed.
Lockheed-Martin, for instance, is now part of a consortium with the Khrunichev State Research and Production Space Center, which offers space launch services using Russia's Proton rocket.
Boeing is involved in a consortium with Russian, Ukrainian and Norwegian companies to launch satellites from a sea-based platform, which will operate near the equator.
"The increase of the quota is an important and necessary issue for us," Yuri N. Koptev, the director of the Russian space agency and the official in charge of preventing sales of missile technology to Iran, said in an interview. "It is not only a problem for Russia, it is also in the interest of American companies. We know that on Feb. 5, the main manufacturers contacted Mr. Gore with a proposal to abolish these restrictions."
Charles Vick, a research analyst at the Federation of American Scientists, estimated that the cost of each satellite launch could range from $80 million to $100 million.
"There would be more missions, more contracts, and it would really help the U.S. balance of payments as well as provide more money for the Russian economy," Mr. Vick said.
Still, given the political sensitivity of the Iran issue and uncertainty about Russia's enforcement of its new technology controls, lifting the restriction will not be quick or easy.
To encourage Moscow to act, American officials have been sharing intelligence with it about suspected Russian deals with Iran.
Robert Gallucci, the former official who helped resolve the stalemate over North Korea's suspected nuclear program, was recently named a special Administration envoy to Russia on the missile technology issue and visited Moscow last week.
Responding to American concerns, Russia has expelled an Iranian diplomat who was trying to purchase missile technology. It has also suspended a contract between a Russian rocket engine manufacturer and Iran.
But there have been allegations that Iranian missile scientists are still being trained by the Baltic State Technical University in St. Petersburg. And while Mr. Yeltsin ordered the tightening of export controls, the Russian bureaucracy has not always effectively carried out his orders.
"They have taken a number of important steps, but the issue now is implementation," a senior American official said.
Russia's recently disclosed plans to increase the number of nuclear reactors it will sell to Iran has also clouded the picture.
Russian officials insist, however, that they are cracking down.
"The 13 cases which our American colleagues have so nicely informed us of have been considered, and we have provided detailed explanations," Mr. Koptev said. "In the cases where we saw some doubtful aspects, these contacts were severed."
Both sides have been careful not to link the question of raising the space launch quota publicly with the Iran issue, though privately officials on both sides acknowledge that the questions are bound together.
Mr. Koptev said the Americans had not made an "official" proposal to ease the quota on launchers in return for Russian cooperation on Iran. But he quickly added, "I take dinner conversations very calmly, and I don't consider it an official discussion." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); ISRAEL (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN COS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN; RUSSIA; ISRAEL; SAUDI ARABIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); ISRAEL (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); 

SUBJECT: SPACE; MISSILES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; SATELLITES; MULTINATIONAL COMPANIES MISSILE SYSTEMS (92%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (91%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (73%); NAVIGATION SYSTEMS (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (67%); PRIME MINISTERS (52%); EXPORT CONTROLS (50%); 

PERSON: GORDON, MICHAEL R AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1998



212 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 9, 1998

SECTION: Section E; Page 1; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: Energizing The Future Of Black Theater

BYLINE: By MEL GUSSOW 

DATELINE: HANOVER, N.H., March 8

 BODY:
In an intensive marathon of talks and panel discussions on Saturday at Dartmouth College here, a wide cross section of theater artists and business and foundation executives confronted a crisis in black theater and searched for new ways to carry that theater past the millennium.
"Black theater is black America's imagination, intelligence and humanity," the playwright August Wilson said on Saturday night in his rousing address. In answer to a question he was repeatedly asked, he said that black theater definitely had a future. He and other speakers expressed the hope that its organizations would be self-determining and self-sufficient. 
 The closing session, the only day open to the public, was attended by an audience of 300. It was the culmination of a five-day conference on black theater convened by Mr. Wilson, the Pulitzer Prize-winning author of "Fences," "The Piano Lesson" and other plays. Saturday's forum on the Dartmouth campus here followed a series of private meetings the previous week at the college's Minary Center in Ashland, N.H.
The conference grew out of a speech that Mr. Wilson gave in June 1996 during a Theater Communications Group conference at Princeton University. In that speech, he called for black theater artists to come together in 1998 "to reignite and reunite our people's positive energy for apolitical and social change that is reflective of our spiritual truths."
While there was silence from other colleges and universities, two Dartmouth professors, Victor Leo Walker 2d and William W. Cook, answered the playwright's call. The conference was jointly sponsored by the Rockefeller and Ford Foundations and Dartmouth. Mr. Wilson is teaching playwriting this semester at Dartmouth.
The Saturday meeting was high on dramatic language and performance flair. There were repeated outbreaks of dancing and singing before and after the panels, some planned, some spontaneous. In contrast with other theater conferences, this was partly a public celebration.
As a panel on economics was about to begin, a man stood up in the audience and shouted, "I want to know about 'the dollar.' " Moving on stage he continued his spiel while tap-dancing. The man was Idris Ackamoor, himself a panelist as well as a performance artist. His entrance had, of course, been scheduled, but it still caught the audience by surprise.
Before a luncheon panel on "African and New World and diaspora theaters," Ntozake Shange, a playwright and performer, joined the other panelists in a dance: mambo and hip-hop ending with a "glory shout." Then the panelists settled down, somewhat, for a vigorous exchange, with Ms. Shange making an artistic statement, "It is through movement and language and ritual that we know freedom and if we know freedom we can know art."
Although some of the issues raised were familiar, and few answers were forthcoming, there was fervor in the air and apparently a desire to make a difference in black theater, which, as Mr. Wilson and others explained, had declined in visibility and public support since its heyday in the 1960's.
Given all the opportunities for negativism, most of the discussions were positive. As Mr. Cook said, "With a powerfully shared feeling that a crisis had to be met, people decided to forget their differences." Anticipating argument, he said, it was instead an optimistic week followed by "a soul-filled afternoon," an afternoon that extended late into the evening.
There was criticism, however, of mainstream theater companies that commission the work of black playwrights -- work that is sometimes not produced -- in order to be eligible for grants to encourage racially diverse art. As a result, it was said, money is drawn away from those companies that specialize in African-American theater.
One of the primary proposals to emerge was for a national coordinating agency, which might become a major foundation that would directly support black artists and organizations. It was also suggested that there be more collaboration between companies and community organizations, and that there be even closer ties between professional theater and colleges and universities, which often have the best-equipped theaters.
A library and video archive might also be established, especially to accommodate those unpublished plays. Alternatively there is the possibility of creating a black publishing company, which would print those plays. Responding to that idea, Ed Bullins, an exceedingly prolific playwright, said, "When the black arts movement went out of fashion, I went out of print."
An important goal is to encourage black playwriting and to increase the number of large resident theaters. At present there is only one such black institution, the Crossroads Theater in New Brunswick, N.J., operating under a League of Resident Theaters contract.
Panels confronted subjects from esthetics to economics, with considerable time devoted to methods of marketing directly to blacks. Walter Dallas, artistic director of the Freedom Theater in Philadelphia, one of many smaller black companies in the United States, said that he regarded every aspect of the theater as subject to the principles of marketing. It was, he said, all a matter of presentation, and extended from the work produced to the ambiance of the theater itself.
The first concrete result of the conference is an alliance with Dartmouth's Amos Tuck School of Business Administration, which, beginning this summer, will invite heads of theaters to participate in its executive training programs. Speeches and position papers are to be collected in a book and subsequent conferences in Atlanta and Houston are to follow up in detail some of the issues raised here.
James Wright, provost of Dartmouth, struck a note for diversity, calling African-American culture "a rich and vibrant part of American culture" that should -- and does -- maintain its own identity. He said that Mr. Wilson's work reflected "the experience and the aspirations, the poetry and the cadence of early-20th-century African-American migrants to the industrial and urban north." Comparing Mr. Wilson's characters to those of Shakespeare and Ibsen, he said, "The universal themes that resonate from the lives of these individuals are based on the richness of the particular, not the abstractions of the general."
The richness of the particular, the black experience as imaginatively recreated by Mr. Wilson and other playwrights, was at the core of the discussion.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: DARTMOUTH COLLEGE THEATER COMMUNICATIONS GROUP (55%); DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (94%); DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (94%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (55%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: DARTMOUTH COLLEGE DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (94%); DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (94%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (55%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; BLACKS THEATER (92%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); WRITERS (89%); DRAMA LITERATURE (89%); DANCE (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); HIP HOP CULTURE (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (72%); 

PERSON: GUSSOW, MEL; WILSON, AUGUST AUGUST WILSON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1998



213 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 9, 1998

SECTION: Section E; Page 7; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: TELEVISION REVIEW;
Roommates Who Resist Growing Up

BYLINE: By CARYN JAMES 

 BODY:
You're not seeing double. This week there are two new sitcoms about a group of old friends in their 20's, two men and a woman, who live in the same house and are self-consciously Peter Panish about growing up. Several more with similar themes will appear in the next weeks. (It seems married people share real estate and have trouble growing up, too.) Before you can say, "Goodbye, Seinfeld," you are witnessing the copycat boomlet that defines this year's midseason replacement shows.
The first to arrive, "House Rules," at least carries hints of a loopy humor. Set in Denver, this one features two appealing characters: an assistant district attorney named Casey (Maria Pitillo), and her childhood friend and housemate, a medical student named McCusky (David Newsom). Riley (Bradley White) is also their friend and housemate, but the apparently unemployed character is so badly defined he simply takes up space. 
 Tonight's episode reveals how lame the plots are, as Casey must decide whether to move to Paris with her arrogant boyfriend. But any "Seinfeld" clone knows that droll observations are more important than stories. "House Rules" relies on scenes like the one in which McCusky and Riley make fun of how Casey's boyfriend says goodbye to her: "Later, baby."
Next week's episode is better, with Patrick Warburton (Puddy on "Seinfeld") appearing as a intense, deadpan policeman whose idea of fun is asking Casey to shoot him in his bulletproof vest.
The show's executive producer is Chris Thompson, who created and was executive producer for the first season of "The Naked Truth," its only funny season.
But that's looking at this show's brightest possibility. The retro atmosphere of "Three's Company" hangs ominously over "House Rules," suggesting the series could nose dive any minute.
 
'Two Guys, A Girl and a Pizza Place'
 ABC, Wednesday night at 9:30
 (Channel 7 in New York)
Nothing is more cloying than a sitcom that works overtime to be cute and zany, and the strained title of this charmless comedy gives it away. This time three former college friends live in Boston. Berg (Ryan Reynolds, whose comic energy is better than his material) is a graduate student in philosophy who moonlights in a pizza place and as a guinea pig for new products (one week he tests nasal spray, the next talking shoes). His roommate, Pete (Richard Ruccolo), an architecture student, also works at the pizza place, where supposedly wacky characters hang out. Their upstairs neighbor, a saleswoman for a chemical company, is Sharon (Traylor Howard, unaccountably perky though her character is whiny).
The show was originally bought by the Fox network, then sold to ABC. Decisions like that may help explain why Fox's fortunes are rising while ABC's are not.
 
HOUSE RULES
NBC, tonight at 8:30
(Channel 4 in New York)
 
Created by Roberto Benabib and Karl Fink; Chris Thompson, executive producer; Wendy Goldman, co-executive producer; Annette Sahakian, producer; Adam Hamburger and Charlie Richards, staff writers; Ned Goldreyer, co-producer; pilot directed by Michael Lembeck; Jerry Davis, editor; Lennie Evans, director of photography; Vicki Rosenberg, casting director. Produced by Christopher Thompson Productions and NBC Studios in association with Columbia Tri-Star Television.
 
WITH: David Newsom (William McCusky), Maria Pitillo (Casey Farrell) and Bradley White (Thomas Riley 3d).

GRAPHIC: Photo: From left, David Newsom, Maria Pitillo and Bradley Wright are roommates in "House Rules," a new Monday-night sitcom on NBC. (Chris Haston/NBC)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: HOUSE RULES (TV PROGRAM); TWO GUYS, A GIRL AND A PIZZA PLACE (TV PROGRAM)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (67%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STAR TELEVISION (61%); FOX NETWORK SYSTEMS INC (58%); CHANNEL 4 TELEVISION CO (56%); HOUSE RULES (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE RULES (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (67%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; REVIEWS TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (93%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); CHEMICALS (50%); CHEMICALS MFG (50%); 

PERSON: JAMES, CARYN MICHAEL MCMAHON (84%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1998



214 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 9, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 293 words

HEADLINE: An Omitted Passage In Article on Dodger Sale

 BODY:
A front-page article yesterday about Rupert Murdoch's purchase of the Los Angeles Dodgers baseball team omitted several paragraphs in some copies. Following is the omitted passage, which should have appeared at the beginning of the continuation page:
If baseball does welcome Mr. Murdoch, though, it will do so with fingers crossed -- that rules governing revenue sharing or precluding outside licensing or sponsorship deals will not be broken and that, in short, Mr. Murdoch will not run roughshod over their game. "I can't judge whether he would be a good or a bad owner," said Michael Eisner, the chairman of the Walt Disney Company, which owns the controlling stake in the Anaheim Angels. "But I don't think he would not follow the rules." 
 In 1957, Walter O'Malley convulsed baseball's economics by moving the Dodgers from Brooklyn to California's virgin major league market, proving that even the most beloved team is a bottom-line business property to be exploited for its strategic value.
Now, Mr. O'Malley's son, Peter, who had grown disaffected with the sport's other owners in recent years, is about to unsettle baseball again -- leaving the sport with the disquieting parting gift of selling his legacy to a media powerhouse known for shaking up every business he acquires.
The deal -- including Dodger Stadium and its 300 acres, the Dodgertown spring training site and minor league team in Vero Beach, Fla., and a training complex in the Dominican Republic -- closes an era when families like the Yawkeys and Griffiths and Stonehams made owning a baseball team their exclusive business. Soaring player salaries have routed them, and they have been replaced primarily by investors made wealthy elsewhere and giant corporations.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (83%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (83%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (83%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (69%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (69%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES DODGERS WALT DISNEY CO (83%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (93%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (93%); ANAHEIM ANGELS (56%); ANAHEIM ANGELS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: LOS ANGELES DODGERS LOS ANGELES DODGERS (93%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (93%); ANAHEIM ANGELS (56%); ANAHEIM ANGELS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (69%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (69%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES BASEBALL (92%); SPORTS REVENUES (78%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (73%); SPONSORSHIP (73%); 

PERSON: MURDOCH, RUPERT KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1998



215 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 9, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: Albright Tours Europe to Whip Up Resolve to Punish Serbia

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: LONDON, March 8

 BODY:
The foreign ministers of the United States, France and Germany agreed today on the need for "firm and clear measures" to stop the violence in the Serbian province of Kosovo before it spreads to other nations.
But with an emergency meeting scheduled here on Monday, of six countries that monitor the former Yugoslavia, it was not clear that the six agree on what those measures should be. 
 Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright, who spent the day going from Rome to Bonn to Paris and finally to London to meet her counterparts, wants a mix of diplomacy and punitive sanctions on the Yugoslav president, Slobodan Milosevic.
But the Contact Group -- composed of the Italians, Germans, French, British and Americans, along with Russia -- includes differing views. The French were noncommittal today about the types of measures needed, and the Russians have made it clear that they oppose new sanctions on Serbia.
The British and Germans are expected to support the Americans, with the Italians closer to the French.
"The time to stop the killing is now, before it spreads," Ms. Albright said in Bonn with Foreign Minister Klaus Kinkel.
She said Belgrade must "understand the seriousness of the situation" in Kosovo province, where the Serbs have cracked down extremely harshly on independence movements of the Albanian population. Ethnic Albanians make up 90 percent of Kosovo's 1.8 million population.
Ms. Albright urged "immediate action against the regime in Belgrade, to insure that it pays a price for the damage it has already done, and to encourage it to finally resolve the problems in Kosovo through dialogue and reconciliation."
She said the Serbs should recognize "the legitimate political rights" of the ethnic Albanians.
While the unrest in Kosovo is raising fears of another Bosnia, there are differences. Primarily, while Bosnia broke away from Yugoslavia, no one questions Serb sovereignty in Kosovo.
For the Russians, the best analogy is to Chechnya, where Russia tried to put down an independence movement with brutal methods and resented Western criticism. Russia is unlikely to want to see a precedent of sanctions that could someday be applied in Russia.
American officials acknowledge differences between Bosnia and Kosovo, but say that Mr. Milosevic has a special history of brutality. And they say Kosovo has a unique potential to spark unrest in the region.
In her conversations today with Mr. Kinkel and the French Foreign Minister, Hubert Vedrine, Ms. Albright stressed the need to punish Mr. Milosevic. Otherwise, she said, the violence could spill over to other countries, including Macedonia -- which has its an ethnic Albanian minority -- and Albania itself.
Senior American officials said the area causing them concern stretched as far as Greece and Turkey, which are NATO members and which could get drawn in if the conflict extends to Macedonia.
Mr. Kinkel expressed concern that the violence would produce a wave of refugees who want to enter Germany, which already provides for 140,000 asylum seekers from Kosovo and 400,000 others from Albania.
Mr. Kinkel said Germany supported the kind of punitive measures that Ms. Albright had in mind. "Everything must be done to insure that another awful conflagration does not explode in Europe," Mr. Kinkel said. "We need to act in time."
The Americans and Europeans are struggling against the lessons of the recent past, when inattention and disunity in the West allowed the Bosnian civil war to take hold and spread.
But Mr. Vedrine said that while he and Ms. Ms. Albright had discussed Kosovo, "we didn't draw any specific conclusions."
Mr. Vedrine said they agreed that the situation is "serious and requires urgent measures, and we need to be firm and clear and find an immediate solution." But it was evident that there would be much talking to do on Monday to find a common position. The Russian Foreign Minister, Yevgeny M. Primakov, is expected to be the only one of his colleagues not to attend the meeting in London, as a form of protest.
In Paris, Ms. Albright said that "the only effective way to stop violence in that region is to act with firmness and speed," and to those who oppose economic sanctions, she said, "Moral condemnation and expressions of concern alone will get us nowhere."
But American and European officials were reluctant to discuss the terms of any possible sanctions, which the Americans said on Friday would be economic.
Given vocal Russian opposition to new sanctions, the Americans have been trying to line up support from the other members to persuade Russia of the need to punish the Serbs. "No doubt we're going to have difficulty with the Russians, that's a fact," a senior State Department official said.
If unanimity cannot be reached at the meeting, the Americans are expected to act with other like-minded nations.
A senior official said of Ms. Albright that "the last thing she would want is a repeat of the last time the world had a chance to stop something like this from spinning out of control and didn't, because of lowest-common-denominator diplomacy."
The contact group will consider diplomatic efforts as Mr. Kinkel listed them at his news conference.
They include an extension of the United Nations peacekeeping force in Macedonia, which comprises about 900 soldiers, including some 350 Americans, to keep down ethnic tensions there.
Mr. Kinkel also suggested increasing a force of European peacekeepers in Albania. He also called for an urgent meeting of regional foreign ministers. American officials said they wanted punitive measures, too. Among those, they said, was a quick reminder to Serbia that the writ of the tribunal that brings war-crimes charges also covers the events in Kosovo.
There are currently some sanctions on Serbia. It is prohibited from getting any loans from agencies like the World Bank and International Monetary Fund, and the Government is not fully recognized by Washington.
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); FRANCE (94%); KOSOVO (94%); GERMANY (94%); ALBANIA (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); GREECE (79%); TURKEY (79%); ITALY (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; RUSSIA; FRANCE; KOSOVO (SERBIA); ITALY; GREAT BRITAIN; GERMANY; SERBIA (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); FRANCE (94%); KOSOVO (94%); GERMANY (94%); ALBANIA (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); GREECE (79%); TURKEY (79%); ITALY (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%); 

SUBJECT: INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS AND SECESSION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS) INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); ETHNIC GROUPS (70%); REFUGEES (60%); 

PERSON: ERLANGER, STEVEN; ALBRIGHT, MADELEINE K (SEC); MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES) SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1998



216 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 9, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1435 words

HEADLINE: Yes, Close Associates of Clinton Say, He Privately Vents Anger on Inquiry

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 8

 BODY:
It is generally in his most private mo ments with his wife, his personal lawyers, a couple of his closest aides and friends -- that President Clinton allows himself to display the anger he harbors toward the prosecutors and investigators digging into his relationship with a former White House intern, associates of Mr. Clinton said.
Seven weeks into his worst political crisis, President Clinton rarely betrays any strain to most of his White House staff and friends, who have been watching him closely for signs of stress. He believes that to show distraction or dismay, his aides said, would be to hand a victory to his antagonist, the independent counsel Kenneth W. Starr. 
 And so the President has maintained a full schedule, holding meetings last week on subjects from the Middle East peace process to European monetary union to education policy -- and even taking time to play a prank on a staff member.
But the President is increasingly bitter about what he sees as the poisonous atmosphere in Washington, his friends said, and that sometimes bubbles to the surface. His advisers hear it every now and then in Mr. Clinton's wry, sarcastic asides about the news media or the prosecutors. And it has come through in some of his public remarks.
Before an adoring crowd of celebrities at a Beverly Hills fund-raiser about a week ago, Mr. Clinton departed from his generally genial and upbeat tone to deliver a scorching appraisal of the capital.
"Washington is a place where too many people take themselves too seriously," he said, "where a lot of people profess to be profoundly religious but actually worship power." Mr. Starr has been reported to sing hymns by a creek near his home.
Criticism of Washington, of course, is a hardy perennial of American politics, and Mr. Clinton has long made a point of his contempt for the capital's culture. But he has been particularly biting recently.
In addition to attacking Washington as power hungry, Mr. Clinton has taken regularly to reminding his listeners that the nation's founders were intent on preventing what he calls "the arbitrary exercise of absolute power." The paradox of such observations about abuse of power is that this is the transgression of which Mr. Clinton stands accused.
Three days before his Beverly Hills appearance, Mr. Clinton remarked at a fund-raiser in San Francisco that in Washington, "We need a lot more concern about people and less concern about power."
Later that night, at another fund-raiser for Democratic Congressional candidates, Mr. Clinton said that he had tried to "change the political culture of Washington, with, you would have to charitably say, mixed results. I don't even understand it half the time. I realize I'm afflicted by the fact that I had a real life for too long."
He thanked San Francisco's Mayor, Willie L. Brown Jr., for "sticking up for me" on the television program "Politically Incorrect."
"It's truly strange that that would be politically incorrect to do," Mr. Clinton mused, "but that's all right."
With his confidant and adviser Vernon E. Jordan Jr. testifying before the grand jury, Mr. Clinton, who has not formed many close friendships in Washington, is running out of people he trusts here.
"It's definitely a dwindling crowd," one Clinton friend said of the President's loyal Washington associates. "I bet you can't put five of them on a hand now."
He said Mr. Clinton believed that there was a "concerted effort" to "throw mud and destroy him."
Some aides and friends of the President said he had stopped reading articles about the intern matter; others say he has not stopped, but has sharply cut back.
"Who needs it?" asked one aide.
Sometimes in public recently, Mr. Clinton has seemed distracted and worn, with bags under his eyes.
When the accusations against the President were disclosed, even some of his close advisers wondered whether he could survive politically. But as the weeks have passed and his poll numbers have only grown stronger, Mr. Clinton and his aides have grown more confident.
"It has really gotten us over the hump," said the Clinton friend, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. Mr. Clinton and his advisers have concluded that having denied an affair with the former intern, Monica S. Lewinsky, he can afford to remain silent about the nature of the relationship.
Mr. Clinton is never free of the accusations, but he generally treats them as a mere nuisance, at least when he is with most staff members and visitors. Still, before every public event, he must steel himself and his guests for inevitable shouted questions about Ms. Lewinsky.
Before reporters were briefly admitted to a Medicare meeting Mr. Clinton held on Thursday morning with members of Congress and experts, he warned his guests that the reporters were "going to jump all over me," said one person who was there.
After the reporters had asked their questions, and left, the group chuckled over the performance. Mr. Clinton joked about the most voluble questioner, Sam Donaldson of ABC. Mr. Clinton said he had sent Mr. Donaldson a birthday card, in which the President congratulated him on recovering from an illness.
"It looks like you have completely recovered," Mr. Clinton said he wrote, "at my expense." Asked about the card, Mr. Donaldson said he never disclosed private communications from the President.
Mr. Clinton is careful to vent his frustration only among his closest friends and advisers, most of whom, like Hillary Rodham Clinton, are protected by various forms of privilege.
"As you might expect, he's pretty judicious about where and how he expresses it," said one senior Administration official.
It is only in that tight circle that Mr. Clinton lets off steam about developments that particularly anger him, like Mr. Starr's decision to subpoena one of the President's advisers, Sidney Blumenthal, to question him about contacts with the press.
But most of the President's advisers never see that side of him. Junior and senior staff members said they had carefully watched the President's behavior, and taken cues from it to set aside the Lewinsky matter and focus on their jobs.
"Inside, to the people closest around him, he's projecting a real sense of buoyancy," said Paul Begala, an adviser to Mr. Clinton. "He's always, always self-confident. Always. And, man, that helps."
White House officials were delighted last week with an event at which Mr. Clinton called for setting a national standard for drivers' blood-alcohol levels. It showed, they said, that Mr. Clinton could still command the attention of the news media and the Congress for a matter of policy. The Senate immediately acted on the bill that Mr. Clinton endorsed.
"Lo and behold, the Senate passed the amendment," said Michael D. McCurry, the press secretary, "and everyone said 'in a White-House-backed amendment.' And we all said, 'Yes, we got it!' "
Mr. Clinton is still clipping and marking articles from newspapers and magazines and shipping them to advisers. He is still returning policy memorandums flecked with his left-handed check marks.
Gene Sperling, director of the National Economic Council, faxed Mr. Clinton on Feb. 28 with his weekly economic memorandum while the President was on vacation in Utah. On the last page of the memorandum, after items about student loan interest rates and Indonesia, he added the kind of gossip that Mr. Clinton loves. He wrote that John F. Welch Jr., the chairman of General Electric, had told him that he had beaten Greg Norman, the professional golfer, by one stroke in a round of golf.
Mr. Sperling discovered that Mr. Clinton had read the memo by the time of their first meeting on Monday morning. As Mr. Sperling walked in, Mr. Clinton was joking with Erskine B. Bowles, the chief of staff, about Mr. Welch's victory.
Mr. Clinton has gone out of his way recently to lighten the mood at the White House. During the 1996 campaign, Mr. McCurry famously took a $100 bet and, with his clothes on, jumped into the pool at the same Beverly Hills estate where Mr. Clinton attended the fund-raiser on Feb. 28. With Mr. McCurry back in Washington, Mr. Clinton had himself photographed as though he were falling into the pool, said Doug Sosnik, another adviser to the President.
Mr. Clinton signed the photograph and handed it to Mr. McCurry after the two climbed into a helicopter on Tuesday night for a flight to Andrews Air Force Base. Then he sat back and watched Mr. McCurry's expression change as he recognized the pool and the prank sank in.
"The President nailed him," Mr. Sosnik said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton's friends have said he is increasingly bitter about what he sees as the poisonous atmosphere in Washington. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (71%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: THE BEVERLY HILLS HOTEL (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (71%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION US PRESIDENTS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); FUNDRAISING (88%); POLITICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); LAWYERS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); RELIGION (64%); PEACE PROCESS (55%); MONETARY UNIONS (54%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BENNET, JAMES; LEWINSKY, MONICA S; STARR, KENNETH W BILL CLINTON (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1998



217 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 9, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1445 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Partner In Whitewater Dies in Prison

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 8

 BODY:
James B. McDougal, whose accounts of business dealings with Bill and Hillary Rodham Clinton ultimately led to the sprawling Whitewater investigations that continue to haunt the Clintons, died today in Fort Worth, where he was imprisoned.
Mr. McDougal, who was 57 but looked much older because of chronic circulatory problems, died of cardiac arrest, the Justice Department said. 
 Lawyers involved in the Whitewater inquiry said Mr. McDougal's death was a blow to the investigation. For years, Mr. McDougal had denounced the prosecutors and proclaimed his innocence. But after his conviction in 1996 on 18 felony counts stemming from his operation of a corrupt Arkansas savings and loan, he received a lighter prison term in exchange for his cooperation with the Whitewater investigation.
Even though he had given conflicting accounts of events and suffered from mental illness a decade earlier, he became an important witness, was debriefed dozens of times by investigators and made many appearances before a grand jury in Little Rock, Ark.
Mr. McDougal's secret testimony will almost certainly be part of the report that must be filed by the Whitewater independent counsel, Kenneth W. Starr, at the end of the investigation to the Federal appeals court that appointed him.
But with the death of Mr. McDougal, investigators have lost an important figure who would have been in a position to corroborate new evidence they might receive from another witness in the inquiry, Jim Guy Tucker, who resigned as Governor of Arkansas after being convicted along with Mr. McDougal and sentenced to probation.
After rebuffing investigators, Mr. Tucker decided two weeks ago that he would cooperate with the investigation. When Mr. McDougal was sentenced last April to a three-year prison term, Mr. Starr said Mr. McDougal had "truthfully and substantially aided" investigators, leading to new revelations "which could only be known by a few insiders."
Mr. Starr said Mr. McDougal was "at the epicenter" of an investigation that began as an examination of three people: Mr. McDougal and his Whitewater business partners, the President and Mrs. Clinton.
Mr. McDougal said Mr. Clinton had never followed through with a promised job, and it was those frustrations, Mr. McDougal said, that prompted him to tell The New York Times in 1992 about Whitewater and how he had carried a disproportionate share of losses from the venture, a real estate development deal in northern Arkansas. He also said Mrs. Clinton, a lawyer, had represented his savings and loan association, Madison Guaranty, before a regulator appointed by her husband.
Asked by the "Dateline NBC" program last year whether he had betrayed his friends, Mr. McDougal said: "I don't think so. I think the Clintons are really sort of like tornadoes moving through people's lives. I'm just one of the people left in the wake of their passing by, but I have no whining or complaining to do, because I have lots of company."
He also said of Mr. Clinton, "I just got sick and tired of lying for the fellow, you know."
President Clinton, whose complicated relationship with Mr. McDougal began in the 1970's when both men were rising political figures in Arkansas, said he was saddened to learn of Mr. McDougal's death.
"I have good memories of the years we worked together in Arkansas and I extend my condolences to his family," the President said.
Mr. McDougal, who had a history of heart disease, had been serving his prison term at the Federal Medical Center in Fort Worth. A Justice Department spokeswoman, Sue Beasley, said workers at the prison medical center observed Mr. McDougal "in distress" today at 10:30 A.M. Life-support was administered and Mr. McDougal was taken by ambulance to the John Peter Smith Hospital, where he was pronounced dead shortly after noon.
Mr. McDougal died during the same weekend that his former wife's prison term for contempt had been completed at the Metropolitan Correctional Center, a Federal prison in Los Angeles. Susan McDougal had served the term because she did not want to testify before a grand jury, having said that she feared committing perjury after Mr. McDougal decided to cooperate.
Mrs. McDougal remains in prison. She was also tried along with her husband, was convicted of four felony counts and has now begun a two-year sentence. The two separated in 1984, and their divorce became final in 1990. They had no children.
A lawyer for Mrs. McDougal challenged her former husband's credibility, even in death. In comments quoted by The Associated Press, Bobby McDaniel said, "Jim McDougal was a gentleman who was very likeable" but added that "he was also a man who had had significant emotional problems."
Mr. McDougal was an eccentric man who, in the 1980's, lavishly displayed his new-found wealth in Little Rock, driving a Bentley and wearing suits from Saville Row. But Madison Guaranty was later found to be rife with corruption, and at times he appeared to give conflicting accounts of several important incidents in the Whitewater story. After the savings and loan failure, he was found to be suffering from manic depression.
Still, some of the things he said were later acknowledged to be true. For instance, it was Mr. McDougal who first told a reporter in 1992 of the profits that Mrs. Clinton had made more than a decade earlier in the commodities markets.
In 1994, the Clintons conceded that with the help of a lawyer from one of the state's most highly regulated companies, Mrs. Clinton had turned a $1,000 investment into nearly $100,000 in profits in less than a year. And it turned out to be ultimately true, as Mr. McDougal had maintained and the Clintons had initially challenged, that the McDougals lost substantially more in the Whitewater land venture than the Clintons.
Mr. McDougal befriended Mr. Clinton early in the two men's careers, and in Mr. Clinton's first term as Governor, he tapped Mr. McDougal to be a top economic aide. But by the 1990's, after the two men's fates had taken opposite directions, the relationship had frayed.
Mr. McDougal was raised near the small town of Bradford, Ark. His father had run a variety store and restaurant nearby. By his own account, Mr. McDougal took to politics early, dazzled at the age of 16 after seeing Adlai Stevenson speak. Two years later, he got a job as a clerk at the Arkansas House of Representatives and by the time he was 20, he was elected to the Arkansas Democratic Party's central committee.
Mr. Clinton met Mr. McDougal in 1968. Out of college, Mr. Clinton was hired as a driver in the re-election campaign of Senator J. William Fulbright, an assignment made by Mr. McDougal. The two men formed a friendship that continued through the 1970's as they worked on Democratic causes. They loved storytelling and campaigning, but Mr. McDougal also had a passion for business.
In 1976, Mr. McDougal persuaded Mr. Clinton to invest in a five-acre piece of land near Little Rock, putting $500 down and paying monthly installments of $75. Two years later, Mr. McDougal sold the tract for $5,000, a 75 percent return on the initial investment of $2,850.
The Clintons then decided to become partners with the McDougals in a new venture, Whitewater, a 230-acre Ozarks land venture at the juncture of Crooked Creek and the White River. For Mr. McDougal, the prospect of such a partner was significant. Mr. Clinton had just become the nation's youngest governor.
Mr. McDougal never really dropped out of politics. He ran unsuccessfully for Congress in 1982, and he continued throughout his career to raise money for Democrats. In 1980 he decided to buy a bank, and two years later, he bought Madison Guaranty Savings and Loan.
After Mr. McDougal provided an account of the Whitewater land venture to a reporter in 1992, Federal regulators reopened their examination of the failure of Madison. In 1993, a criminal referral over the institution was made to the Justice Department that named the Clintons as witnesses. The referral, along with the death of deputy White House counsel Vincent W. Foster Jr., created a political crisis that prompted Mr. Clinton to seek the appointment of an independent counsel.
Among the incidents still under review is an allegation by an Arkansas businessman, David Hale, that Mr. Clinton asked him to make an improper Federally backed loan of $300,000 to Mrs. McDougal. Investigators have determined that nearly $50,000 of that money wound up paying Whitewater expenses.
The independent counsel ultimately indicted Mr. McDougal, and he was convicted on 18 counts of fraud, false statements, conspiracy and other infractions.

GRAPHIC: Photo: James B. McDougal in a photograph taken in April 1996. (Reuters)(pg. A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (94%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: WHITEWATER DEVELOPMENT CO; MADISON GUARANTY SAVINGS & LOAN ASSN US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITEWATER DEVELOPMENT CO; MADISON GUARANTY SAVINGS & LOAN ASSN US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARKANSAS; UNITED STATES (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (94%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: WHITEWATER CASE; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; SENTENCES (CRIMINAL); PROBATION AND PAROLE WITNESSES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); SENTENCING (89%); PROBATION (89%); PRISONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); PAROLE (78%); EVIDENCE (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); LAWYERS (76%); FELONIES (76%); LITIGATION (76%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (76%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (76%); SAVINGS & LOANS (74%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (73%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (73%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); GRAND JURY (73%); TESTIMONY (73%); HEART DISEASE (72%); REAL ESTATE (63%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (60%); MENTAL ILLNESS (54%); APPEALS COURTS (51%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM; LABATON, STEPHEN; MCDOUGAL, JAMES B; TUCKER, JIM GUY BILL CLINTON (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1998



218 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 9, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1184 words

HEADLINE: An Iraqi Is Home, at Last, From the War of Long Ago

BYLINE: By HADANI DITMARS 

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq

 BODY:
Majida al-Zubaida vividly recalls the morning in 1982 when her husband kissed her goodbye and left for the front to fight in Iraq's bitter war against Iran.
He was 31, she 28 and four months pregnant with their first child. Her husband, Abel al-Zubaida, tried to calm his wife's fears, telling her that the tour was a routine training exercise and that he would be home soon. 
 It was March 10, 1982, and Mr. Zubaida would not see his wife for more than 15 years.
Captured by Iranians shortly after he joined the battle, he became one of the thousands of forgotten prisoners still being held in a conflict that ended a decade ago.
Unlike the Persian Gulf war with the United States in 1991 and the crises over United Nations arms inspections, Iraq's eight-year with Iran was not closely covered by the Western press. But it was a brutal conflict in which Iraq used poison gas and Iran sent thousands of teen-age soldiers in suicidal assaults against entrenched defenders.
Mr. Zubaida says that for much of his captivity the Iranians kept him in a cell so small that he and three fellow prisoners had to take turns sleeping while the others stood. He asserts that he was repeatedly beaten and tortured. His account could not be independently confirmed.
"I'm so glad to be home," the painfully thin Mr. Zubaida, his dark eyes beaming, repeated again and again when asked how freedom felt.
Held for 15 years in virtual islolation, Mr. Zubaida returned to a world transformed. In that time, the Soviet Union collapsed. The Berlin wall tumbled. The Israeli and Palestinian leaders shook hands on the White House lawn.
And Mr. Zubaida's once-prosperous country fell into near ruin. After invading Kuwait in 1990, Iraq was devastated by the war against the American-led coalition and the economic sanctions imposed by the United Nations. A generation of Iraqis, including his daughter, had grown up knowing only the deprivations of war or sanctions.
Before it was expelled from Iran in 1992, the International Committee of the Red Cross had registered some 13,000 men like Mr. Zubaida. At that time, it estimated that there were 19,000 Iraqi P.O.W.'s in Iran, based on the reports of Iraqi families who were receiving or sending mail through the Red Cross system. Only about 1,000 have been released during the last six years.
Iran says there is no "official" number for Iraqi prisoners, and contends that 5,000 Iranians are being held captive in Iraq. For its part, Iraq acknowledges holding only one Iranian prisoner of war -- a fighter pilot shot down in September 1980 -- whom Iraq says it will hold indefinitely as "proof" that Iran started the war, which left hundreds of thousand of casualties on each side.
Whatever the actual numbers, it is clear that Mr. Zubaida's ordeal and that of his wife, who raised a child alone in war and then under an economic embargo, have become common for Iraq. His daughter, Rahma, was born and raised in Mr. Zubaida's absence.
"When he first saw her, it was a beautiful moment," Mrs. Zubaida said of her husband's meeting with their daughter. But she explained, laughing, that at first Rahma kept calling him uncle, rather than father.
"It took a while for her to get used to having her dad around, instead of someone she'd only seen in photographs," she said.
Mr. Zubaida himself was shocked to see his own mother. "When I saw her, I almost fainted," he said.
As part of the psychological torture inflicted on him in captivity, Mrs. Zubaida said, he had been told that his mother was dead. "He had already mourned her and even held a special ceremony for her in prison," she said.
That was only the first of the shocks upon his return.
"He had heard about the embargo in prison," Mrs. Zubaida said of the seven years of economic sanctions that the United Nations says will be lifted once Iraq can prove that it has given up its most destructive arms. "And he had imagined that we would be living in abject poverty. He was surprised to see we still had furniture."
The furniture is still there in their modest apartment, which like many homes here feels as if it has been caught in a time warp. The couch and armchairs -- like the photograph on the wall of Mr. Zubaida dressed in a shirt styled in the 1970's -- reflect a better but faded time, before the wars and the embargo, when buying newer things was not impossible.
There were other adjustments as well. When Mrs. Zubaida told her husband that her current salary as an administrator at the Ministry of Religious Affairs was 3,000 dinars a month, he was quite impressed; atthe time he left home that would have been equivalent to about $8,000.
But the embargo has made the Iraqi currency nearly worthless. After she explained about the dinar's devaluation, Mrs. Zubaida said, "he just stared at the wall in disbelief."
"It was hard for him to understand how 3,000 dinars could be worth only a few dollars," she said.
Mr. Zubaida said he had spent most of his time away in Iran's notorious underground prison, Arak-Masous, in a small cell with three other prisoners. The communal toilet was a hole in the ground, and their meager food rations were thrown in through a small window.
Mr. Zubaida estimates that he received 120,000 lashes, though it is hard to know for certain. He was tortured, he said, and subjected to what he described as brainwashing: prisoners were forced to recite denunciations of the Iraqi Government and shown propaganda films portraying the collapse of their country.
He and his cellmates were able to obtain a radio, he said, by bartering some detergent for it from a sympathetic guard. Prisoners passed radio news clandestinely, but even word of the end of the war with Iran did not reach them until more than a year after it had occurred.
"I remember being really shocked to hear that the Soviet Union had collapsed," Mr. Zubaida said. "And when I heard about the American bombing, I was very worried for the safety of my family," he added, referring to the air sorties flown over Iraq in the Persian Gulf war.
While Mrs. Zubaida says proudly that her husband, though obviously still frail and tired, "is a strong man," she herself also endured a time that only a strong woman could survive.
"When I married at age 26, I did not expect to spend most of my married life alone," she said.
Raising a child in wartime was a challenge, she said, but added that the hardest part had been the last seven years under the sanctions. "Under the embargo, everything is a struggle," she said.
Before the Persian Gulf war, food and medicine were subsidized by the Government, and most things were affordable. Now, just finding enough food occupies most of her time, and the cost of even basic health care is prohibitive.
But she and her husband say they are optimistic and look forward now to "a normal life," as unlikely as that may be with no end in sight to the sanctions.
Having traded the isolation of his cell for that of his country, Mr. Zubaida recalled his fellow prisoners in Iran and all they had missed. "Life just passed us by," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Abel al-Zubaida of Baghdad went to war in 1982, was captured and spent the next 15 years in prison in Iran. Meanwhile, his wife, Majida, was also suffering deprivations, first of war and then of economic sanctions. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (53%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (53%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); ISRAEL (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); GERMANY (79%); KUWAIT (79%); GULF STATES (58%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (53%); PRISONERS OF WAR (59%); PRISONERS OF WAR (59%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRISONERS OF WAR (59%); PRISONERS OF WAR (59%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; IRAN; IRAQ (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); ISRAEL (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); GERMANY (79%); KUWAIT (79%); GULF STATES (58%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%); 

SUBJECT: PRISONERS OF WAR; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DESERT STORM (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); FAMILY (77%); TORTURE (74%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (73%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (68%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (65%); 

PERSON: ZUBAIDA, ABEL AL-; DITMARS, HADANI TZIPORA LIVNI (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1998



219 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 10, 1998

SECTION: Section E; Page 1; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1038 words

HEADLINE: Surprise! Take Some of Duke's Millions

BYLINE: By JENNIFER DUNNING 

 BODY:
In death, Doris Duke became a creature of the tabloids, the subject of countless colorful articles about her vast estate, the butler whom she had named as her executor and an angry suit brought by distant relatives, friends and questionable hangers-on. Much more quietly, the legal battles were settled, three years after Ms. Duke's death in 1993, and a foundation was formed to distribute the money the tobacco heiress had bequeathed to philanthropic causes.
Then came an even greater lull, until one day three surprised dance institutions discovered they were each $1 million richer. 
 Ms. Duke had suggested few specific priorities for what became the $1.25 billion Doris Duke Charitable Foundation, one of the 25 largest philanthropic funds in the United States. All that the foundation's president, Joan Edelman Spero, had to go on were vague instructions that the money go to medical research in which no animals were used, to environmental preservation and to the support of "dancers, singers, musicians and other artists of the entertainment world." And by Federal regulations, the foundation had to distribute at least 5 percent of its assets by the end of 1997.
In mid-December, the announcement came. Eight environmental, medical and cultural groups would receive a total of $18.6 million in this first round, with the often neglected, impoverished field of dance receiving $3.8 million of the $5.8 million going to cultural programs.
Ms. Duke had been friendly with Martha Graham, but the grants she gave to Graham's company and to the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater were relatively small. And so the shock was almost palpable among American dance institutions when the foundation suddenly showered money on the Joyce Theater in Manhattan, which received $1 million; the Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival, in Becket, Mass., which also received $1 million, and the American Dance Festival, which received $1.8 million. (A grant of $2 million was also given to Jazz at Lincoln Center for a yearlong celebration of the Duke Ellington centennial next year.) The sky was falling once more, but this time it was hailing money.
From the start, Mrs. Spero had a great degree of involvement in choosing the recipients. One of the first things she did was to immerse herself in Ms. Duke's life, talking to people who knew her, visiting her homes and studying her papers and personal possessions.
"People only know about the butler," Mrs. Spero said in an interview at the foundation's midtown Manhattan office. "Doris Duke was a fascinating creature, an innovative, eccentric woman who studied piano every day and played and composed. She studied modern dance, bless her heart. I think she would be pleased that people are amazed by our grants to modern dance. I can hear her chuckling. She didn't want recognition."
Ms. Duke might also have been amused by Mrs. Spero's baptism by fire as the foundation's first president, a job to which she was appointed in January 1997. Federal law required that the first grants be awarded by the end of 1997. Mrs. Spero had served in a variety of academic, political and corporate jobs, including Undersecretary of State for Economic, Business and Agricultural Affairs in the Clinton Administration and executive vice president for corporate affairs and communications at the American Express Company. But her arts background, she admits, was meager.
She was also the foundation's only employee until August, when she broke a leg and contracted Lyme disease. And the job as a whole was huge, though exhilarating. "Creating something from scratch was just a very exciting thing," she said. "Nothing could compare with it."
Mrs. Spero got help from Mary Hays, formerly with the dance program at the New York State Council on the Arts, and Susan Bloom, an executive in the American Express philanthropic program for the arts, in deciding how to help the "quintessential American art forms" of modern dance and jazz (which, like dance, had special appeal for Duke). Olga Garay, an arts presenter at Miami Dade Community College, was recently appointed arts officer of the foundation.
Mrs. Spero explored dance on her own, too, much as she had explored Ms. Duke's life. "We did not have the capacity to decide which companies were the best, so it seemed sensible to go to the presenters," Mrs. Spero said. "Everyone in 'the field,' as I have learned to call it, said that these three institutions are leaders, providing a whole range of opportunities to established and new companies. It gave them a real surprise when we showed up on their doorsteps."
The bemused recipients were even consulted about their greatest needs rather than receiving money earmarked for programs determined by the foundation, an emphasis Mrs. Spero said would continue. The Joyce grant will support the construction of a new dance studio and dressing rooms and studio rental subsidies at the Joyce SoHo as well as renovations including air-conditioning at both Joyce theaters and electric scenery-hoisting winches at the uptown theater.
Jacob's Pillow will use its grant for commissions, artists' residencies, workshops and professional leadership forums. And the American Dance Festival will create two awards named after Ms. Duke, one an annual choreography award and six grants to modern dance choreographers and jazz composers for the creation of pieces to be included in millennium celebrations at the festival at Duke University in Durham, N.C., and at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington.
It has not yet been decided whether the foundation will award the same amount of money to dance organizations each year. And for the time being, at least, the foundation is not giving money to individual dance companies, remaining "a wholesale organization rather than retail," Mrs. Spero said. National and international projects will be considered in the future, she said.
The foundation has been deluged with proposals from arts groups. "But we are self-initiating," Mrs. Spero said. "We don't know what our programs or guidelines will be. And we don't have the capacity to respond. Later we hope to create a Web site so people will know what we're doing."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Joan Edelman Spero (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. E3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: DUKE, DORIS, CHARITABLE FOUNDATION

ORGANIZATION: DUKE, DORIS, CHARITABLE FOUNDATION

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: DANCING; MUSIC; JAZZ AT LINCOLN CENTER FESTIVAL; JOYCE THEATER (NYC); JACOB'S PILLOW DANCE FESTIVAL; AMERICAN DANCE FESTIVAL FOUNDATIONS (91%); DANCE (91%); CHARITIES (91%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); PHILANTHROPY (89%); WILLS (78%); DANCE COMPANIES (75%); DANCERS (75%); INTERVIEWS (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (73%); MUSIC (72%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (68%); 

PERSON: DUNNING, JENNIFER; DUKE, DORIS (1912-93); SPERO, JOAN EDELMAN; ELLINGTON, DUKE MARTHA GRAHAM (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1998



220 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 10, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 670 words

HEADLINE: It's Risky to Talk Tough on Kosovo

BYLINE: By Peter Maass; Peter Maass is the author of "Love Thy Neighbor: A Story of War," which chronicled the war in Bosnia.

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration does not hesitate to express its moral outrage when a crisis unfolds in a place like Kosovo, a province of Serbia where 90 percent of the residents are ethnic Albanians.
"We are not going to stand by and watch the Serbian authorities do in Kosovo what they can no longer get away with doing in Bosnia," Secretary of State Madeleine Albright warned after the Serbian police and paramilitary units killed scores of men, women and children in what Serbia portrays as a war on terrorism. Ms. Albright's warning sounds stern, but how serious is she? It is far easier to be the world's conscience than to be the world's policeman. 
 The United States and several allies agreed yesterday to impose mild economic sanctions on Yugoslavia. But if the violence continues, will the Clinton Administration rightly insist on stiffer sanctions? Will it resort to military measures? What does Ms. Albright mean when she says the United States is "not going to stand by"? Does the Administration plan to litter Belgrade once more with Security Council resolutions?
Most likely, Ms. Albright hopes Kosovo will quiet down, averting the need for hard decisions, but she may not be so lucky. She should keep in mind a lesson from Bosnia: at the outset of a crisis, it may be better to tell the truth than say the right thing. The strong expression of moral outrage -- without an accompanying will to do anything of substance -- can be worse than useless; it can be harmful.
The expression of outrage has many effects. It reassures the American public, which wants to hear the White House say the right thing (though not necessarily do the right thing if that means risking American lives). Outrage also puts the perpetrator -- in this case, President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia -- on notice that he will be punished unless he changes his ways. Lastly, the expression of outrage gives hope to victims by letting them know that the world's superpower may come to their rescue. This is what can be harmful.
When the former Yugoslavia was falling apart in 1991 and 1992, the Bush Administration made it clear, in the memorable words of James Baker, then Secretary of State, that it had "no dog in that fight." Mr. Baker was wrong about that -- the stability of Europe and NATO was at stake -- but at least he was honest. The independence-minded Governments in Croatia and Bosnia knew they would not get much help from the Bush crowd.
But Bill Clinton, running for President at the time, called for strong action against the Serbs. Once he took office, the moral posturing became fiercer, though action was not forthcoming until 1995, when the Dayton accord was imposed and troops were dispatched to Bosnia. In the interim, Bosnians died by the thousands.
Throughout the war, Bosnia's desperate Government hoped for military support from the United States, or at least the lifting of a crippling arms embargo. Salvation seemed possible because the Clinton Administration never ceased expressing its outrage and never ruled out military intervention, notably air strikes. The prospect of American rescue was not the sole or main reason Bosnians fought and died -- but it played a role.
Needless to say, the expression of outrage in Washington no longer carries much weight in the Balkans. Mr. Milosevic knows not to take the Clinton Administration's warnings seriously. Kosovo's Albanians are well aware of their geopolitical quandary. They reside within the internationally recognized borders of Yugoslavia. They know better than to expect the Administration's actions to be consistent with its oratory.
But hope springs eternal, even when we wish it would not. If the Administration has no intention of truly standing up to Mr. Milosevic, its moral posturing should be accompanied by an honest assessment of the actions it will not take. Ms. Albright, who knows the lessons of Bosnia better than anyone else in the Administration, should not begin another process of conscientious hypocrisy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: SERBIA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); KOSOVO (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); ALBANIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); CROATIA (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); SERBIA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); KOSOVO (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); ALBANIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); CROATIA (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS) EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (77%); TERRORISM (76%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (69%); ARMED FORCES (68%); 

PERSON: ALBRIGHT, MADELEINE K (SEC); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1998



221 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 10, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 9; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 542 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
30-Year Yield Falls Below 6% as Low Oil Prices Spur Rally

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
The prices of Treasury securities rose yesterday amid lower oil prices and expectations that concerns about Indonesia's economy would drive foreign investors to seek the relative safety of the American bond market.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond rose 27/32, to 102 9/32, while its yield, which moves in the opposite direction, dropped to 5.96 percent, from 6.02 percent on Friday and below 6 percent for the first time in a week. 
 Traders cautioned that there was little evidence of large investors in the market, so with volume at only about 75 percent of normal, price changes were probably exaggerated.
Still, Jack Regan, chief derivative strategist at Josephthal & Company, said the market continued to be bullish after the release on Friday of the February employment report, which showed a slight decline in manufacturing payrolls, an indicator that economic growth may ease, keeping inflation under control.
The drop in oil prices should help keep inflation in check, and the turmoil in Indonesia hangs over Southeast Asia, he added. That could encourage more foreign investors to buy Treasuries.
Another bullish factor for the market may be the light supply of new securities that are to be auctioned in the days ahead.
Analysts also expect that economic reports to be released this week will show that inflation remains benign, despite solid growth, fueling expectations that the Federal Reserve will be able to keep interest rates steady. The Government reports February retail sales on Thursday, and producer prices on Friday.
"Treasury securities will continue to benefit from an economy that is strong, but does not have the corresponding price pressures that might force the Fed to tighten," said Dave Shabelman, a Treasury market analyst with Standard & Poor's MMS, a market research and analysis firm in San Francisco.
Mr. Shabelman said that while there had been some concern about a lack of a significant effect from the Asian crisis -- economists have been predicting that the slowdown there would help temper the growth in the United States -- the market saw the employment report as a sign of possible slowing because of the decline in manufacturing payrolls. That would be favorable for the bond market.
Yesterday's Treasury bill auction went well, with the three-month maturity showing slightly better interest. The average rate at auction was 4.97 percent, down from 5.12 percent last week, while the six-month bill produced an average rate of 5.01 percent, down from 5.125 percent.
The following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of new three-month and six-month bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Average Price	98.744	97.467	Discounted Rate	4.97%	5.01%	Coupon Yield	5.10%	5.21%	High Price	98.745	97.472	Discounted Rate	4.96%	5.00%	Coupon Yield	5.09%	5.20%	Low Price	98.742	97.467	Discounted Rate	4.97%	5.01%	Coupon Yield	5.11%	5.21%	Accepted at low price	29%	87%	Total applied for	$39,620,841	$38,636,482	Accepted	$10,175,436	$11,347,374	Noncompetitive	$1,235,619	$1,109,857	

Both issues are dated Mar. 12. The three-month bills mature on June 11 and the six-month bills on Sept. 10.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "3-Month Treasury Bills" tracks average discounted rate at weekly auction, since November 1997. (Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (70%); 

COUNTRY: INDONESIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (78%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT JOSEPHTHAL & CO INC (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; INDONESIA; INDONESIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (78%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; INTEREST RATES BONDS (93%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); AUCTIONS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (86%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); PUBLIC DEBT (70%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (68%); RETAIL SALES (64%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT DAVE SHABELMAN (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1998



222 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 10, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 9; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
Technology Earning Reports Finally Drive Down Markets

BYLINE: By SHARON R. KING 

 BODY:
The stock market was haunted yesterday by warnings of disappointing earnings from some of the largest technology companies late last week.
Major stock market indexes finished lower, with technology shares suffering the brunt of the declines. Investors turned away from technology issues in favor of such market sectors as retailers and multinational consumer products companies. Analysts said that the possibility of weaker sales and slowing demand for personal computers and semiconductor equipment had finally sunk in for investors. 
 There had been earnings warnings on three consecutive days last week from Intel, Motorola and Compaq Computer.
Stocks finished strongly higher Friday, as investors seemed to brush aside the first two companies' statements that first-quarter earnings would not meet expectations. But Compaq's announcement after the close of trading on Friday led to selling yesterday. "It was kind of silly to have the market up 50 to 100 points like it never happened," one trader said.
"You've got a clear Compaq-driven signal," said Alan Bond, chief investment officer at Bond Procope Capital Management in New York. Bond Procope recently sold its entire Compaq holding at 35 because Mr. Bond was concerned about possible inventory buildups.
Compaq, yesterday's most actively traded issue, closed at 25 7/16, down 2 3/16 on the Big Board.
The Nasdaq composite index, which is heavily weighted with other technology issues, fell 28.33 points, or 1.62 percent, in a retreat led by such bellwether technology issues as Microsoft, Intel, Dell, Cisco Systems and Sun Microsystems.
But as investors fled from those computer-related issues, one of the places where they sought refuge was in Internet company stocks. Internet-related shares like Amazon.com, Yahoo, Excite, America Online and Lycos soared, with many of the companies reaching new highs amid expectations that falling personal computer prices would lead to more sales and increased Internet use.
Announcements of mergers and acquisitions helped stem broader market declines, analysts said. Alcoa's plans to purchase Alumax for $2.8 billion and Qwest Communications International's deal to buy LCI International for $4.4 billion indicated that companies would continue to consolidate to buoy market share and stock prices, said Richard E. Cripps, chief market strategist at Legg Mason Wood Walker.
After trading higher during most of the day, the Dow Jones industrial average slipped 2.25 points, closing at 8,567.14. Standard & Poor's 500 stock index fell 3.38 points, to 1,052.31. Two of the Dow's technology issues, I.B.M. and Hewlett-Packard, contributed to a large portion of the declines.
Sears, Roebuck, Coca-Cola and Procter & Gamble, which had been leading the Dow higher, managed to hold onto their gains. Those increases were a sign of a more defensive stance among investors, as they pushed cash into retailers and consumer nondurables on the reasoning that demand for their products would be aided by a strengthening economy. The Labor Department reported Friday that unemployment had fallen to 4.6 percent, a 24-year low.
Mr. Bond, who became more defensive during the fourth quarter, has recently bought shares of CVS and Walgreen. He has also added to holdings in AMR, the parent of American Airlines, and Carnival, which owns Carnival Cruise Lines. Both will benefit from falling oil prices, he said.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since March 1997. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (91%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (90%); AAI (ASX) (81%); AA (NYSE) (81%); HPQ (NYSE) (72%); CTL (NYSE) (66%); MSI (NYSE) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%); AOL (NYSE) (53%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (53%); KO (NYSE) (50%); PGP (PAR) (50%); PG (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (90%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (81%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (81%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (66%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (66%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (54%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (54%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (54%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (53%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (53%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (53%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (50%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (50%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (50%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (50%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (91%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (90%); ALCOA INC (81%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (72%); CENTURYLINK INC (66%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (54%); AOL INC (53%); AMAZON.COM INC (53%); LEGG MASON WOOD WALKER INC (52%); COCA-COLA CO (50%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (50%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX STOCK INDEXES (95%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BONDS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); MERGERS (78%); RETAILERS (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (76%); INVENTORIES (74%); MARKET SHARE (73%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (73%); EXECUTIVES (67%); SEMICONDUCTORS (56%); 

PERSON: KING, SHARON R ALAN BOND (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1998



223 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 10, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 543 words

HEADLINE: Texas Lenders Pledge $1.4 Billion in Housing Case

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 9

 BODY:
Three Texas mortgage lenders have agreed to make nearly $1.4 billion available to low-income and minority home buyers over the next three years in a settlement of housing discrimination complaints.
The settlement is the largest ever negotiated in a case involving charges of lending discrimination, far surpassing a $1 million settlement in 1996 against a North Carolina Bank, according to the Department of Housing and Urban Development. 
 Beyond its size, the settlement comes as housing officials are cracking down on lenders who make it harder for minority and low-income families, many of them urban residents, to buy homes. In a recent study, the United States Conference of Mayors found that while more Americans than ever owned their own homes, the rate of ownership in urban areas lagged far behind the suburban rate.
Federal housing officials predicted that as a result of the Texas settlement as many as 20,000 families wwould be able to secure mortgages over the next three years.
"Discrimination is inherent in the system at this point," Housing Secretary Andrew M. Cuomo said today. "This has been going on for 30 years, and in many cases, it's almost subconscious with assumptions about what neighborhoods you should live in, who has good credit, who does not and what neighborhoods are bad risks. These assumptions have become institutionalized, and the disparity is unarguable."
The message of the Texas agreement, Mr. Cuomo said, is: "If you discriminate, we will file a complaint."
The settlement followed tests in which white officials posing as mortgage applicants were treated better than black officials even though they presented similar financial profiles. For example, a white applicant qualified for a $70,000 loan by one of the companies on the same day a black applicant with more favorable finances qualified for a mortgage of only $55,000.
The results of that test and others prompted the Fort Worth Human Relations Commission to file complaints against the companies -- the Temple-Inland Mortgage Corporation of Dallas, the Banc One Mortgage Corporation of Dallas and Overton Bank and Trust of Fort Worth -- with the Federal housing agency under the Fair Housing Act.
Negotiations over the complaints prompted the three companies to agree to set aside $1.375 billion in loans and programs over the next three years to improve the chances of economically disadvantaged families' owning their own homes.
While the settlements involve no official finding that the lending companies discriminated, housing department officials said charges would be filed if the companies did not comply with the agreement.
As a company that makes loans in 47 states besides Texas, Temple-Island is bearing the bulk of the settlement, $1.353 billion, or $451 million in each of the next three years. Overton is guaranteeing $11.3 million, and Banc One, $10.4 million.
Brad Johnston, general counsel for Temple-Island, said that despite the implicit threat for noncompliance the settlement "reaffirms a lot of things we do now" in that Temple-Island made $450 million in loans last year.
"There isn't a problem," Mr. Johnston said. "We're already very active in this area. There's nothing punitive in the agreement." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); IX (NYSE) (52%); 8591 (TSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (64%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS532411 COMMERCIAL AIR, RAIL & WATER TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING (52%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (52%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (52%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (52%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (90%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: TEMPLE-INLAND INC; BANC ONE CORP; OVERTON BANK & TRUST (FORT WORTH); HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT GUARANTY RESIDENTIAL LENDING INC (64%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); ORIX CORP (52%); OVERTON BANK & TRUST NA (52%); UNITED STATES CONFERENCE OF MAYORS (57%); UNITED STATES CONFERENCE OF MAYORS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: TEMPLE-INLAND INC; BANC ONE CORP; OVERTON BANK & TRUST (FORT WORTH); HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT UNITED STATES CONFERENCE OF MAYORS (57%); UNITED STATES CONFERENCE OF MAYORS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT WORTH (TEX); TEXAS; UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); DALLAS, TX, USA (90%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; MORTGAGES; DISCRIMINATION; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS) HOUSING AUTHORITIES (93%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); CITIES (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); FAIR LENDING (89%); FAMILY (89%); PUBLIC HOUSING (89%); RACE & RACISM (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); CREDIT REGULATION (78%); LITIGATION (77%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (73%); LAWYERS (71%); RELIGION (66%); MAYORS (55%); 

PERSON: JANOFSKY, MICHAEL; CUOMO, ANDREW M (SEC) ANDREW CUOMO (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1998



224 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 10, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1073 words

HEADLINE: Omdurman Journal;
The Koran as a Cure-All? Listen to the Sufi Sheik

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr. 

DATELINE: OMDURMAN, the Sudan

 BODY:
A crowd starts gathering in the dusty warehouse yard an hour before he appears. They come from all over the Sudan, the diseased and the disabled, the blind and the melancholy. They sit cross-legged in long rows in the dirt under a desert sky and wait for the healer, each wrapped in a private pain.
At 4 P.M., Sheik Abdel Aziz ibn Ali arrives with a megaphone. He is 32 and wears his hair in dreadlocks under a shiny green shawl inscribed with a Koranic verse in golden letters. His assistants wade through the crowd of 800 men and boys, carrying the crutches and walking sticks of those they say he has already cured. 
 "Leave your disease here," he says, as an assistant in a motley green costume holds the speaker up. Then he begins to sing the Koran, verse by verse. As his voice rises hoarse and plaintive into the clear afternoon, some in the crowd begin to sway and rock. A few cry out in pain. Others vomit. Some scream.
As the Sheik's eerie chant grows in intensity, the men in the crowd begin singing amen at the end of each verse. They raise their open palms to heaven. Their muted voices sound like waves crashing on a distant beach, an hypnotic bass under the Sheik's voice. At times his voice cracks and he weeps the words. One man beats his chest and screams.
"Get out of me, devils!" he says. "I am a Muslim man. I am a Muslim man."
Sheik Abdel Aziz says he is the only Islamic faith healer in the Sudan. To his admirers, he is a miracle worker. Dozens of people will testify that he has cured their diabetes and reversed blindness by reciting the Koran. His followers say he has helped polio victims to walk, fixed leaky heart valves, removed goiters, made ovarian cysts vanish and healed ugly skin diseases.
But to his detractors, the Sheik is a charlatan who is raking in more than $2,400 a day from impoverished people in desperate circumstances. The authorities have arrested him on more than one occasion. After noise complaints from neighbors, the police have barred him from preaching at his home, forcing him to set up shop in an old warehouse on the outskirts of Omdurman.
For his part, the Sheik declines to accept responsibility for healing people. He says he is doing nothing more than reciting the sacred words Mohammed received from God. God, he says, does the rest.
"This is different from the Christian faith healers you have in the United States," he said in an interview at his house. "We are just reading the Holy Koran."
Then he shows a visitor a foot-high stack of pink and green medical folders. Each one, he claims, contains proof of a miraculous cure. He points out one woman whose ovarian cysts apparently disappeared after attending his sessions, according to radiology reports. Another file has X-rays detailing the case of a man whose failed kidney repaired itself.
The Sheik points to a line of 10 pairs of eyeglasses on a coffee table. They were taken, he says, from people whose vision was suddenly restored during his prayer service. In another corner he keeps a stack of canes and crutches from disabled people who have walked on their own after listening to his chanting.
"I do the same things that doctors do," he says. "For this the doctors have become angry with me and they have complained to the Government. That is why they try to stop me." Asked why he charges people 60 cents to enter his sessions, he says: "There are some cases where people have spent thousands of dollars on doctors. I can cure them for less than 60 cents."
It was impossible to verify the Sheik's claims. But people who have attended his service are living testament to the power of prayer to at least ease discomfort and depression, if not to heal.
Tariq Issa, a 45-year-old police officer from Dubai, said he had suffered from migraines for years, as well as double vision and bad dreams. He saw several doctors, who could find no obvious cause. Since he has attended six sessions with the Sheik, he says, his symptoms have disappeared.
"It's not magic," he said. "It's just the Holy Koran. He asks people to close your eyes and concentrate and listen to the Koran."
But many people apparently believe something supernatural is taking place. Hundreds bring dates and jugs of water to the sessions. They said they believe the spirit of God transforms the water and fruit into medicines that can cure malaria and other illnesses.
"The Koran can help people without dates or water," the Sheik explained. "But people when they bring water and dates feel they have something spiritual at hand when they go home. It's a matter of psychology."
One believer in the crowd, Abbas Yusef, a 50-year-old unemployed man, said he went blind in one eye and lost some vision in the other at the age of 5 when a goat butted his head and damaged an optic nerve.
He began going to the Sheik's services about a month ago. After three sessions, he said, he had a sensation of water coming from his eyes. Thirteen sessions later, he began to see blurry images, then figures, faces, objects. "I believe it's Allah," he said. "He's just a liaison between people and God."
Whatever the merits of the Sheik's techniques, his popularity reflects the deeply religious nature of Islamic society in the Sudan. He often preaches up to four times a day and more than 800 people attend most sessions.
His success is also a measure of the influence here of Sufism, a more mystical branch of Islam that emphasizes tolerance, introspection and meditation. A vast majority of Sudanese Muslims belong to various Sufi sects.
Sheik Abdel Aziz comes from a famous family of Sufi religious leaders in the central Sudanese region of Karary al-Jezira. After graduating from high school, he attended Al-Zhar, the famous Islamic university in Cairo, where he studied theology. He first began healing people while living in Jordan in 1994, and returned to the Sudan in 1996.
In general, he said, Sufis are less likely to use religion as an instrument of political power than people from other sects, like the Shia branch that dominates political life in Iran. It is ironic, Sufi people say, that a hard-line Islamic party has come to power in the Sudan in the last decade and has set up a Government based on Islamic principles.
"Sufism is the real meaning of religion," the Sheik said. "We do religion for religion's sake. Others in the Sudan use the religion to gain political power. They are merchants of religion."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sheik Abdel Aziz ibn Ali, standing sideways with a shawl over his head at right side of doorway, is a faith healer to some and a fraud to others. Hundreds gathered near Omdurman to hear him sing from the Koran. (Liz Gilbert/Sygma, for The New York Times)
 
Map of Sudan showing location of Omdurman: A Sufi holy man has set up shop in a warehouse outside Omdurman.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SUDAN (95%); UNITED STATES (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: OMDURMAN (SUDAN); SUDAN; SUDAN (95%); UNITED STATES (71%); 

SUBJECT: FAITH HEALERS; ISLAM QURAN & ISLAMIC TEXTS (91%); RELIGION (90%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); BLINDNESS (78%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (76%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (69%); SKIN DISORDERS (69%); DIABETES (69%); INTERVIEWS (65%); ARRESTS (60%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%); 

PERSON: MCKINLEY, JAMES C JR; ABDEL AZIZ IBN ALI (SHEIK)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1998



225 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 10, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1068 words

HEADLINE: New Tinderbox, Same Fuse: A Serb Comes Full Circle

BYLINE: By CHRIS HEDGES 

DATELINE: PRISTINA, Serbia, March 9

 BODY:
Kosovo is a sacred place for Serbs, and for Serbian politicians. The Ottoman Turks defeated an army of Serbian knights on a barren field here more than six centuries ago, and Serbs have commemorated their martyrdom ever since in poetry and song.
This is the hallowed ground where Slobodan Milosevic, Yugoslavia's President, chose to begin his transformation from Communist bureaucrat to nationalist leader. The fierce nationalism unleashed by Mr. Milosevic with a 1987 speech here began his career as a popular politician and fueled the wars that followed the breakup of Yugoslavia. 
 Now, like a protagonist in Greek tragedy, Mr. Milosevic has come full circle to confront the ghosts he resurrected. He is clearly risking renewed international isolation to crush a budding rebellion in this Serbian province by the ethnic Albanians who form its majority. And the Albanians have vowed vengeance in response.
With that, the issue has been joined here as it was in Croatia and Bosnia: will the violence kindle another Balkan war in this century?
That possibility has long worried Americans. President George Bush warned Mr. Milosevic eight years ago that violence against the Albanians who make up 90 percent of Kosovo's population could lead to military intervention.
The fear then and now is that the fighting could spread across borders. Albania's ragtag army could be drawn into war with Serbia to protect Albanian kin in Kosovo from annihilation. Restive ethnic Albanians in Macedonia and Montenegro could join a revolt, perhaps drawing Turkey and Greece into war.
The likelihood of this scenario has been debated. But it propels Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright's efforts to impose sanctions against Serbia and compel Mr. Milosevic to rein in his forces.
Mr. Milosevic, who is presiding over an economically troubled nation with rampant unemployment, has much to lose if he becomes known as the man who let Kosovo get away. He can still reap political benefits from taking a tough line on the Albanian issue, provided the casualties are minimal.
He has played the Kosovo card before.
Mr. Milosevic argued in his 1987 speech that while Serbs were the largest of the ethnic groups in Yugoslavia, they were being cheated out of their fair share of jobs and economic bounty. Few Serbs lived in Kosovo, which had come to be dominated by ethnic Albanians, and the Serb-controlled press was running incendiary articles about the plight of the Serbs in the province, highlighting accusations of rapes and beatings.
Mr. Milosevic came here and pugnaciously declared that other ethnic groups would no longer be permitted to abuse the Serbian nation. He vowed a government dominated by Serbs and a Yugoslavia that served Serbian interests. He nurtured ancient myths and glory, pointing to domed Serbian Orthodox monasteries and churches that dot a landscape increasingly devoid of Serbs.
The nationalistic talk made him wildly popular among the Serbian population. Like all groups in former Yugoslavia, it was suffering under the economic collapse brought about by $10 billion in debt to international lenders.
It also played on the deep xenophobia of Serbs, who after 500 years of brutal Ottoman occupation had come to worship warrior-saints and distrust all outsiders. Most important, it seemed to offer a solution to the needling problem of cohabitation with other ethnic groups -- which Tito had quelled with his considerable personal authority and a ruthless secret police network.
The triumphalism of the Serbs, not surprisingly, deeply frightened the Slovenes, Croats, Muslims, Macedonians and ethnic Albanians, who had had their fill of Serbian hegemony under the monarchy that ruled between the wars. Those politicians who spoke of cooperation with Belgrade found themselves ridiculed and alone. As Mr. Milosevic rose to power, nationalist leaders from competing ethnic groups rose alongside him.
Mr. Milosevic, as President of Serbia, did indeed turn the state over to Serbian nationalists. He revoked the limited autonomy and self-rule granted by the Communists to other ethnic groups, including Kosovo's Albanians.
In Kosovo, however, the independence movement did not follow the path of such movements elsewhere and take up armed rebellion. Mr. Milosevic's forces kept a lid on unrest for nearly eight years, and as war raged in the rest of Yugoslavia, there was in Kosovo a deceptive appearance of calm.
The ethnic Albanians mounted a disciplined and nonviolent resistance. They set up a shadow government and schools and clinics. They collected their own taxes. Diplomas and certificates were granted from the nonexistent Republic of Kosovo. All contact with the Serbians, who now live in isolated and well-guarded villages and neighborhoods, was severed.
The failure to get concessions from Belgrade, coupled with the decision at the Dayton peace accord negotiations to ignore the Kosovo conundrum, increasingly left ethnic Albanians bitter and frustrated.
The growth of the Kosovo Liberation Army and its increasing attacks over the last year have captured the imagination of many here, especially the young. An increasing number of ethnic Albanians no longer speak Serbo-Croatian. Their only contact with Serbs is being stopped, and often abused, by heavily armed police officers.
It was the United States' special Balkan envoy, Robert S. Gelbard, who made a remark during a visit to Belgrade last month that many now cite as a trigger to the latest crackdown. Mr. Gelbard praised Mr. Milosevic for his cooperation in Bosnia and branded the Kosovo Liberation Army "without question a terrorist group."
The statement stunned the ethnic Albanians, and echoed Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d, who argued in 1991 that Yugoslavia should remain one nation. Mr. Baker's assertion was apparently interpreted by Mr. Milosevic to condone attacks against Croatian separatists.
Mr. Milosevic, despite the talk of Kosovo as a Serbian homeland, knows he has little time to quell any rebellion. Serbs are not ready to die for Kosovo. Most have never been there. Yet at the same time he cannot afford to lose the province, for it would be his crowning defeat. He has already dismembered his country, filled it with some 400,000 embittered Serbian refugees from other parts of the former Yugoslavia, wrecked its economy and turned it into an international pariah.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: SERBIA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); KOSOVO (95%); ALBANIA (95%); TURKEY (93%); MONTENEGRO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); CROATIA (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); GREECE (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; MONTENEGRO; KOSOVO (SERBIA); SERBIA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); KOSOVO (95%); ALBANIA (95%); TURKEY (93%); MONTENEGRO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); CROATIA (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); GREECE (72%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); ARMIES (90%); ETHNIC GROUPS (88%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (88%); ETHNICITY (74%); POPULATION SIZE (74%); RELIGION (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: HEDGES, CHRIS; MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1998



226 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 10, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1153 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place;
A 2-Way Contest to Pick Up Philadelphia's Options

BYLINE: By SHARON R. KING 

 BODY:
The American Stock Exchange and the Chicago Board Options Exchange have each approached the Philadelphia Stock Exchange about combining their options businesses, according to exchange officials.
The Philadelphia exchange, plagued by regulatory problems in recent years, confirmed that it was considering two unsolicited proposals. The exchange also announced yesterday that its chairman and chief executive was stepping down after just seven months. Leopold Korins, who got the post with the support of the chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, could not be reached for comment last night. 
 But his departure appears to pave the way for new leadership, and any joint venture could be a prelude to an outright merger. Chicago, which is the largest of the four options exchanges, has offered to provide some interim management assistance and would like to pursue a merger in the long term, according to industry officials.
Management continues to be a sore spot for Philadelphia, a small regional exchange that has had trouble regrouping after a series of embarrassing incidents. One official was forced out after a conflict of interest was disclosed. Another stepped down after the S.E.C. had criticized the exchange for favoring its own interests over those of investors.
Like the Chicago exchange, the Amex, which is in New York, believes it can help. While it is an also-ran to the New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq, its image has improved under the direction of Richard F. Syron, the former chief economist and president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston. When he became chairman of the exchange four years ago, Mr. Syron informed companies and investors that unscrupulous business practices would not be tolerated and stepped up scrutiny of companies that were joining the exchange.
Philadelphia might benefit from his hard-nosed approach because board members there were said to be frustrated with the slow pace of change. Merger talks were, in fact, begun by the two a few years ago, but about half the board members in Philadelphia did not want to be engulfed by another exchange, said a former member of the Philadelphia board. Half the board is now made up of outsiders to satisfy regulators.
Losing the bidding for Philadelphia would again raise questions about the future of the Amex. It suffers from an identity problem despite making great strides to increase its equity offerings and to retain growing companies. Mr. Syron vows not to walk away from any part of its business, which includes options, equities and structured products.
But it is a niche player at best in equities. And after losing a bidding war with the Chicago Board last year to acquire the options business of the New York Stock Exchange, Mr. Syron has few choices left for expansion. He has set his sights on being No. 1 in that market in five years, a lofty goal for an exchange that is now a distant second.
"We have in no sense accepted that we're going to be No. 2 in options," he said in a recent interview."
In the options market, the Chicago Board Options Exchange has 53 percent of the total trading volume, the Amex accounts for almost 25 percent and Philadelphia has nearly 9 percent. The other player is the Pacific Stock Exchange, with 13 percent.
In equity options, the Amex is stronger. It has about 31 percent of the market, compared with 43 percent for Chicago, whose overall lead comes from its exclusive contracts to trade index options, namely those based on the popular Standard & Poor's 500 contract. Philadelphia's portion of the equity options business is slightly more than 9 percent.
Merging with Philadelphia would give the Amex some additional heft as it continues an aggressive push into new products, said Price Headley, a senior vice president at Schaeffer's Investment Research, a Cincinnati firm specializing in options investment strategies. In recent years, the Amex has introduced new equity products, including the Standard & Poor's depository receipts, known as Spiders; international index funds, known as WEB's, and an index based on the Dow Jones industrial average, known as Diamonds.
Philadelphia would benefit from the Amex and Chicago's more advanced computer and software systems as well as their ability to monitor trading activity throughout the day. Now, Philadelphia can only receive reports on trades at the end of the day. The Amex would benefit from increased trading volume. If they were to ultimately merge, the exchanges probably could combine trading floors as well.
"There could be more consolidation, and we would not be opposed to it," said Michael Schwartz, chief options strategist at CIBC Oppenheimer, adding that securities firms that are members of the exchanges would save money if they did not have to pay employees at an additional options exchange.
In a letter on March 3 to the Philadelphia exchange, Mr. Syron proposed an "affiliation" between the two exchanges. He suggested that the members of the Philadelphia exchange would continue to operate at their current site, and the Amex would take over operations and surveillance of some of the biggest accounts.
"Beyond that, we estimate that in a total of 6 to 12 months, your entire options floor could be converted to our surveillance and trading platforms," he wrote.
At the Philadelphia exchange, Mr. Korins will be replaced temporarily by John F. Wallace, who preceded him as acting chairman and now is the market's on-floor vice chairman. Preceding Mr. Korins as chief executive was Nicholas A. Giordano, who resigned after an inquiry by the S.E.C. into exchange practices. Vincent J. Casella resigned as chairman in late 1996 after an investigation into his investment in a company that won a major contract with the exchange.
That investigation prompted a visit by Arthur Levitt Jr., the S.E.C. chairman, who chided the exchange's board for failing to act promptly when it had learned Mr. Casella might have a conflict of interest.
Though the Philadelphia exchange comes with some baggage, Mr. Syron has few choices. After shelving the emerging company markets program, which was designed to aid small companies that could not meet normal trading standards, and making clear that companies that were suspect would face pressure, he has turned his attention to expanding and forging an identity for the American Stock Exchange. Since 1994, when Mr. Syron became chairman, options volume has grown more than 80 percent, new listings have doubled and initial public offerings of stock have increased 75 percent, though they are still dwarfed by the figures for the Nasdaq and the Big Board.
Investors have generally yawned at these accomplishments.
"They haven't been very successful in conveying to people what their image should be," said Daniel G. Weaver, a finance professor at Baruch College. "A lot of people are asking, 'Why do we need it?' "

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Plans to Combine"
Plans for an alliance are on the table for the Philadelphia Stock Exchange. Here is a look at the options market share of total trading volume.
 
Pacific Stock Exchange: 13%
Philadelphia Stock Exchange: 9%
American Stock Exchange: 25%
Chicago Board Options Exchange: 53%
(Source: The Options Clearing Corporation)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBOE (NASDAQ) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (92%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (92%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (66%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (98%); 

COMPANY: CHICAGO BOARD OPTIONS EXCHANGE; PHILADELPHIA STOCK EXCHANGE; SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION; PACIFIC STOCK EXCHANGE CBOE HOLDINGS INC (92%); NYSE MKT LLC (84%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF BOSTON (66%); NASDAQ OMX PHLX INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (97%); CHICAGO BOARD OPTIONS EXCHANGE (93%); CHICAGO BOARD OPTIONS EXCHANGE (93%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (93%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (90%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (90%); PACIFIC STOCK EXCHANGE (84%); PACIFIC STOCK EXCHANGE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO BOARD OPTIONS EXCHANGE; PHILADELPHIA STOCK EXCHANGE; SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION; PACIFIC STOCK EXCHANGE AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (97%); CHICAGO BOARD OPTIONS EXCHANGE (93%); CHICAGO BOARD OPTIONS EXCHANGE (93%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (93%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (90%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (90%); PACIFIC STOCK EXCHANGE (84%); PACIFIC STOCK EXCHANGE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (98%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS STOCK EXCHANGES (95%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); MERGERS (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); FUTURES (78%); BOARD CHANGES (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); ACQUISITIONS (74%); STOCK OFFERINGS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); BONDS (68%); 

PERSON: KING, SHARON R; KORINS, LEOPOLD RICHARD F SYRON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1998



227 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 10, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 557 words

HEADLINE: Americans Take a Dim View Of the Government, Survey Finds

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 9

 BODY:
Most Americans still deeply distrust the Federal Government, despite the end of the cold war, the robust economy and the highest level of satisfaction in their own lives in 30 years, a new national survey has found.
Only 20 percent of Americans are satisfied with the state of the nation and only 34 percent basically trust the Government. Underlying both is a sense that politicians are corrupt, according to the survey released today by the Pew Research Center for the People and the Press. 
 But even though Americans do not trust their politicians, two-thirds have a positive view of Federal workers and of many Federal agencies, according to the survey.
The Post Office is the most-favored agency, viewed positively by 89 percent of the people, up from 76 percent a decade ago. The least popular agency remains the Internal Revenue Service, dropping to 38 percent favorability from 49 percent.
But the generally positive view of particular agencies stands in sharp contrast to the negative view of the Federal Government as a whole.
Americans' dim view of Government has never recovered from its plunge in the 1960's, beginning with the assassination of President John F. Kennedy and continuing through the Vietnam War and Watergate, the Pew study noted. The public felt slightly better during the Reagan Administration, but that ended with the Iran-contra case.
Trust in Government hit bottom at 21 percent in 1994, when that sentiment helped Republicans win Congress for the first time in 40 years.
It has climbed 18 percentage points since then, but pollsters are divided over whether this represents a permanent turnaround or only a temporary uptick that could fall again with new revelations in the sex scandal embroiling the White House.
"The great criticism of Government in the 1980's has stopped and begun to reverse itself," said Andrew Kohut, director of the Pew Research Center. But he also said the investigation into President Clinton's sex life appeared to be "thwarting" any increase in trust. Trust in Government fell from 39 percent in October to 34 percent in late February, when the story had been in the news for more than a month.
Speaking at a seminar on the Pew research held here today by Pew and the Annenberg Public Policy Center of the University of Pennsylvania, Samuel Popkin, a political analyst at the University of California at San Diego, said that Mr. Clinton cleverly deflected trust as an issue in the 1996 campaign by narrowing his proposals to small-bore issues like school uniforms and cellular phones for neighborhood street patrols.
Mr. Kohut said that trust remained relatively low because the Government had failed to solve perceived problems like crime, drug use and Medicare and because politicians were seen as being corrupt. Many analysts said that the press, with its focus on bad news and scandals, had fostered this view.
Senator Fred Thompson, the Tennessee Republican who heads the Senate Governmental Affairs Committee, said the perception that politicians were corrupt was "the most serious problem we have."
"I assume they mean the old-fashioned money-type corruption," Senator Thompson said. Despite the concerns caused by excess money in political campaigns, that kind of corruption, he said, was "the one charge that I think we're probably not guilty of."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PEW RESEARCH CENTER FOR THE PEOPLE AND THE PRESS (ORGN) THE POST OFFICE (56%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (56%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: PEW RESEARCH CENTER FOR THE PEOPLE AND THE PRESS (ORGN) INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (56%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PUBLIC OPINION; ETHICS POLLS & SURVEYS (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); COLD WAR (90%); POLITICS (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); ETHICS (76%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (76%); SCANDALS (76%); MEDICARE (73%); CIVIL SERVICES (73%); VIETNAM WAR (73%); SEX SCANDALS (68%); ASSASSINATION (67%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); 

PERSON: SEELYE, KATHARINE Q JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); BILL CLINTON (78%); FRED THOMPSON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1998



228 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 10, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: On My Mind;
What Suharto Knew

BYLINE: By A. M. ROSENTHAL 

 BODY:
Being a simple sort of man, I sometimes wonder: When the emissaries of President Clinton visit the President of Indonesia to talk about his country's economic disasters and how we can bail it out, do they ever ask him if he knows that his sons, daughters, in-laws and dearest friends stole the country bare and blind?
And if so, could he say when he first knew it? 
 Then I rebuke myself, knowing the questions would be a waste of time. Everybody in Washington and Jakarta understands he not only knew but from the beginning helped his children take over Indonesian banks, trusts, factories, airlines, agriculture monopolies, automobile and other transport companies and so on, plus foreign power plants, military-supply operations, shipping lines and so on.
He also helped them set up new, creative forms of businesses at home or abroad free of the problem of paying taxes. And good father that he is, President Suharto made sure his children got a nice share of the deals he bestowed on his friends. Family values are important to him.
Anyway, emissaries know the questions could be dangerous. Mr. Suharto is a touchy man. He might get so mad he would turn down the International Monetary Fund bailout package.
The I.M.F. and the U.S., with the necessary American backing, want to lend Indonesia $43 billion to save it from the economic desperation it fell into because Mr. Suharto has been such a splendid father and friend.
They plead with the onetime general, who helped slaughter hundreds of thousands of Indonesians in 1965 and then made himself President, again and again and again. Please, make reforms in the economic booby trap your largess created, so that we can give you the bailout money.
Forty-three billion is quite a lot of dollars. But Mr. Suharto is defiant about making suitable reforms.
The prevailing belief of Indonesia experts is that he is afraid of liberalization and other changes because they might weaken his control of the country and the clout of his family economic powerhouse. The Suharto empire is at the heart of many of the problems of the national economy.
Some of his children's enterprises lost money when the Indonesian economy started its slide down, down. But they are still the largest banking family in Indonesia, the political machine most dangerous to trifle with. Suharto children already are hedging promises they made to give up their monopolies.
Foreign and Indonesian lenders and investors lost hugely more than the Suhartos, and do not have as many untaxed holdings and other delicacies. They want the I.M.F. to deliver the bailout billions so they can get their money back.
Mr. Suharto's friends bolster his defiance with warnings about Indonesian history. They say that although Indonesians built the once-plump economy with foreign help they are terribly resentful at foreigners who come bearing reforms as the price of bailout, and suspicious of an unfettered economy, otherwise known as a free market.
So, they say, if pressed too hard, Indonesians might riot, kill and generally create civil disorder that would wreck the economy altogether and ruin foreign trade. And they won't like America anymore.
Indonesia specialists with memories say that if Indonesians do not take the hint about how violent they might get, Mr. Suharto will show them the way. He will again select Chinese Indonesians as the scapegoats, and look away if other Indonesians go get them.
That could happen. So we can be sure how it will turn out. If Mr. Suharto makes some changes to lessen inflation and other unpleasantnesses, the I.M.F. will deliver the $43 billion.
Foreign and Indonesian investment-losers will indeed get their money back. They will escape the fundamental safeguard of free markets: the risk of losing money if investments turn bad.
If and when the loan is paid off, through sacrifices of Indonesian workers and taxpayers, the I.M.F. and the U.S. will again cry out what a triumph for the bailout system, but they will call it something fancier.
Still, being a simple sort of man, I wonder: How many Americans will enjoy handing $43 billion to a man who in the U.S. would long ago have been indicted, convicted and sent to jail, to join his children?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: INDONESIA (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (58%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (82%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (82%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDONESIA; INDONESIA (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (58%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; FOREIGN AID; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT US PRESIDENTS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BAILOUTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); POLITICS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); FAMILY (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); TRENDS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%); RELIGION (67%); 

PERSON: SUHARTO (PRES); ROSENTHAL, A M BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1998



229 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 10, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 850 words

HEADLINE: Giuliani Visits Michigan for a Fund-Raiser

BYLINE: By DAN BARRY 

DATELINE: NOVI, Mich., March 9

 BODY:
Rudolph W. Giuliani, the Mayor of New York City, endured a turbulent flight to Detroit this afternoon that included a mother soothing her crying child with a loud rendition of "Mary Had a Little Lamb." Then he sat, buckled in the coach section, as the airplane toured the tarmac for 15 minutes. Then he took a 20-mile limousine ride to the Novi Hilton, which looms over a highway intersection and a Big Boy restaurant.
Mr. Giuliani was a long way from New York City -- but by choice. He came to the Midwest primarily to speak at a fund-raising dinner for the state's House Republicans, as a favor to Michigan's Governor, John Engler. But there was a tangential benefit: the speaking engagement raises Mr. Giuliani's national profile at the same time that he has acknowledged harboring political ambitions that extend beyond City Hall. 
 "People are here to take their measure of Mayor Giuliani," Ken Sikkema, the Michigan House Republican leader, said. "The word I'm struggling not to use -- I don't want to use this word -- is curiosity."
The Mayor has several appointments this week that have nothing to do with governing New York City and everything to do with determining his political future. After tonight's appearance, he was scheduled to rush back home to attend an 8 A.M. breakfast meeting on Tuesday with his finance committee, which will be discussing fund-raising plans for the as-yet-to-be-determined aspiration of Mr. Giuliani. Then, on Thursday, he has three speaking engagements in Washington, including one to deliver the keynote address at the annual meeting of the Republican National Committee.
His aides say that the week's schedule is an aberration and does not reflect an emerging pattern of distraction for a mayor who prides himself on the long hours he spends on city business. Nevertheless, it does suggest that Rudolph W. Giuliani is, at the very least, a political curio, and that Republicans west of Staten Island are interested in what he has to say.
Take Novi, for example. More than 900 people have paid $500 each to attend tonight's annual dinner and to hear Mr. Giuliani. His appearance has made for the most successful event in the history of its sponsor, the Michigan House Republican Campaign Committee; it has raised an estimated $520,000 to help the Republicans here reclaim the House and therefore dominate the Legislature, since it already controls the Senate.
The cachet of the Giuliani name worked, said Val Tillstrom, the Republican who organized the event. "He's definitely a national figure, very exciting," she said, adding that last year's speaker was the former Republican Presidential candidate, Steve Forbes.
But Mr. Sikkema, wearing a red-white-and-blue tie depicting American flags and elephants, acknowledged that Michigan Republicans tend to be conservative -- and would oppose Mr. Giuliani's support, for example, for abortion. "Sure he's viable" as a Presidential candidate, he said. "But it's a little premature from our standpoint to make judgments on Presidential sweepstakes. We're happy that he's here because he's helping us sell tickets."
Dan Gustafson, another House Republican, also sidestepped questions about the Mayor's national appeal. "But the level of excitement here -- of people wanting to hear what he has to say -- is higher than I've ever seen," he said.
At a news conference before the dinner, Mr. Giuliani and Mr. Engler engaged in mutual admiration: the Governor complimented the Mayor for inroads he has made in crime reduction; the Mayor applauded the Governor for economic initiatives and approaches to welfare reform. Then both men dodged questions about the Mayor's political viability.
"The field is wide open," said Mr. Engler, who is said by Republicans here to be a possible Presidential candidate himself. "Mayor Giuliani is one of the leading Republicans in the country."
Mr. Giuliani helped his Republican friend by saying, "I'm not testing any waters right now." When asked whether he had interest in the Iowa and New Hampshire Republican primaries, the Mayor smiled and answered, "I don't see it in my travel plans right now."
Then the Mayor joined some 200 guests crammed into the St. Clair room at the Hilton, where the combined body temperature was high enough to melt the elephant ice sculpture prematurely. He shook hands and posed for photos. Then he walked into the main ballroom, which was wall-to-wall Republicans.
After a lengthy and laudatory introduction by Mr. Sikkema, the Mayor stepped to the lectern to a standing ovation. Behind him hung a banner that said: "The March to House Majority Starts Here."
He began with a couple of jokes about organized crime -- using the Don Corleone voice he sometimes affects -- and then launched into the familiar Giuliani themes of ending parole and reducing crime. He also praised Governor Engler again for his own accomplishments.
Then the Mayor and his small entourage stepped outside, where it was snowing, and into a limousine that would whisk him back to the airport, where an airplane bound for New York City awaited.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, center, greeted the Michigan House Republican leader, Ken Sikkema, at a fund-raiser in Michigan last night. Michigan Gov. John Engler, right, praised the Mayor for reducing crime. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) AS NORGES HANDELS OG SJOEFARTSTIDENDE GROUP (66%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (68%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (96%); MICHIGAN, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); MIDWEST USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; FINANCES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT FUNDRAISING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); MAYORS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CITIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); GOVERNORS (74%); POLITICS (73%); RESTAURANTS (71%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (63%); 

PERSON: BARRY, DAN; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); ENGLER, JOHN (GOV) RUDY GIULIANI (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1998



230 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 10, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 618 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Merger of Weapons Giants Faces Unexpected Hurdle
Lockheed Martin's $8.3 billion acqusition of Northrop Grumman is running into unexpected resistance from the Government, suggesting that Washington may now believe that the consolidation among military suppliers, which it had been encouraging, has gone too far.
Lockheed and Northrop said in a joint statement that they had been told over the weekend that the Justice Department was "fundamentally opposed" to the proposed combination of the companies. Page A1. 

Qwest to Buy LCI International
Qwest Communications International agreed to buy LCI International for stock worth $4.4 billion. It would become the nation's fourth-largest long-distance carrier, with some $3 billion in revenue, if Worldcom's acquisition of MCI goes through. D2.
 
Technology Stocks Down Sharply
Stock prices were lower, though technology stocks, hurt by last week's announcements of lower earnings by several bellwether companies, bore the brunt of the selling. The technology-heavy Nasdaq index fell 28.33 points, to 1,725.16, though the Dow industrials were down only 2.25 points, to 8,567.14. D9.
 
The yield on the 30-year Treasury fell back below 6 percent as prices rose, helped by lower oil prices and expectations that concerns about Indonesia's economy would drive foreign investors to the relative safety of the American bond market. D9.
 
3 to Leave Times Mirror Board
Three key directors on the Times Mirror board are retiring: Otis Chandler, a member of the company's founding family, and two of his top lieutentants, David Laventhol and Robert F. Erburu. The three were the core of the leadership of Times Mirror, the parent of The Los Angeles Times, Newsday and other newspapers, before the arrival of Mark H. Willes as chief executive in 1995. D8.
 
Rulings Cloud Same-Sex Issue
The Supreme Court took action in two more sexual harassment cases, disposing of them in a way that underscored how unsettled the law remains after last week's ruling that brought same-sex harassment within the coverage of Federal discrimination law. A14.
 
Rest of Havas to Be Sold
Generale des Eaux, the diversified French water utility company, has agreed to buy the 70 percent of the media company Havas that it does not own for $5.6 billion. D3.
 
Publishers' Merger Deal Unravels
Reed Elsevier, the British-Dutch publishing giant, and Wolters Kluwer, a Dutch rival, said they had canceled plans to merge after they were unable to renegotiate their deal, which had encountered regulatory objections. D3.
 
Indonesian Anger at I.M.F.
As a new round of arm-wrestling gets under way between Indonesia and the I.M.F., expressions of nationalist resentment are mounting. A9.
 
Newsprint Makers Consolidating
Bowater agreed to acquire Avenor for $2.47 billion, creating the second-largest newsprint manufacturer in North America. The price far exceeds a $1.4 billion bid Avenor rejected two weeks ago from Abitibi-Consolidated, which like Avenor is based in Montreal. Bowater is based in Greenville, S.C. D3.
 
Japanese Airline in 2 Deals
All Nippon Airways, the largest airline serving the domestic Japanese market, reached separate alliances with United Airlines and with Lufthansa of Germany, the latest agreements as global airlines play musical chairs. D3.
 
Ryanair of Ireland plans to buy as many as 45 Boeing 737's, worth as much as $2 billion. D3.
 
Housing Discrimination Settlement
Three Texas mortgage lenders have agreed to make nearly $1.4 billion available to low-income and minority home buyers in the largest settlement ever of a case involving charges of housing discrimination. A13.

GRAPHIC: Photo.
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 8,567.14, down 2.25
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.96%, down 0.06
The Dollar -- 127.77 yen, down 0.16
 
Graph tracks share price of LCI International, since last Monday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: LMT (NYSE) (75%); VZC (LSE) (71%); VZ (NYSE) (71%); NOC (NYSE) (58%); CTL (NYSE) (57%); HAV (PAR) (52%); WKL (AMS) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (75%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (75%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (75%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (71%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (71%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (65%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (65%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (58%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (58%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (58%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (58%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (58%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (58%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (57%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (52%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (52%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (52%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (52%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (52%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (52%); NAICS611710 EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT SERVICES (51%); NAICS519190 ALL OTHER INFORMATION SERVICES (51%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (51%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (51%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (51%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (51%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (51%); 

COUNTRY: INDONESIA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NETHERLANDS (78%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (75%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (71%); LOS ANGELES TIMES (65%); NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (58%); CENTURYLINK INC (57%); HAVAS SA (52%); REED ELSEVIER GROUP PLC (51%); WOLTERS KLUWER NV (51%); I M F (67%); LEAVE TIMES MIRROR BOARD (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: I M F (67%); LEAVE TIMES MIRROR BOARD (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDONESIA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NETHERLANDS (78%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MERGERS (90%); NEWSPRINT (79%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); DISCRIMINATION (76%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (75%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (75%); BONDS (75%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); BOND MARKETS (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (68%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); OIL & GAS PRICES (68%); PUBLISHING (68%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (68%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (67%); TREASURY SECURITIES (66%); PAPER MILLS (61%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (57%); WATER & WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT (50%); 

PERSON: OTIS CHANDLER (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1998



231 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 10, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1292 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-11
 
Serbs Return Bodies From Attacks in Kosovo
Serbian police returned for burial 51 bodies of ethnic Albanians killed in a sweep of what they said were rebel strongholds in central Kosovo Province. Serbian officials contended that the women and children who died were killed by armed rebels who refused to let them surrender. But there was mounting evidence that the Serb police had killed unarmed civilians and executed males whom they had detained. A1 

The United States and a group of allies imposed modest diplomatic and economic sanctions on Yugoslavia because of President Slobodan Milosevic's use of force against the ethnic Albanians in Kosovo. A10
 
A former Bosnian Serb paramilitary commander pleaded guilty to rape as a war crime before an international tribunal in the Hague. Dragoljub Kunarac, who turned himself in to French NATO peacekeeping troops last week, admitted that he had raped Muslim women during the Bosnian war in 1992. Human rights groups have estimated that more than 30,000 women were sexually abused in the Balkan fighting. A10
 
U.N. Plan for Iraq Unveiled
Secretary General Kofi Annan presented his plan for continuing to monitor Iraq's disarmament and sent a new commissioner to Baghdad to oversee the operation. Senior United Nations officials said that inspections of eight so-called presidential sites would begin in about two weeks. Mr. Annan's recent initiatives have emphasized direct links with Iraq, which has been told it must rid itself of weapons of mass destruction. A3
 
India Party Leadership Change
Sitaram Kesri, left, the president of India's Congress Party, which has governed India for most of its 50 years of independence but is now in the minority, resigned. He suggested that Sonia Gandhi, the Italian-born widow of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi, become the party's leader. A spokesman said she would consider it. A6
 
Vietnam Dispute Resolved
The Vatican announced a new archbishop for Ho Chi Minh City, formerly Saigon. Pope John Paul II nominated Archbishop Jean-Baptiste Pham Minh Man, 64, and prelates for two other cities after a high-level Vatican delegation held talks in Vietnam with officials and church leaders. For three years, Vietnam had blocked the Vatican's attempt to appoint a prelate it considered too influential, according to Fides, the news agency of the Vatican's missionary service. The city has 500,000 Roman Catholics. (AP)
 
A Prison Death Is Reported
Thein Tein, a prominent ally of the Burmese democracy leader Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, died in prison on Feb. 18 after being tortured, said an exile group, the All Burma Students' Democratic Front. The military Government of Myanmar, formerly Burma, has not commented on the death, but the students said the junta had asserted that Mr. Thein Tin died of cancer. (AP)
 
NATIONAL A12-16
 
Senate Republican Leader Revises His Remarks
Senator Trent Lott, the Senate majority leader, sought to return to the Republican fold after he ignited a storm over the weekend by saying that the Whitewater independent counsel had "had enough time and it's time to show his cards." A1
 
Susan McDougal, in Transition
Susan McDougal finished serving her 18-month Federal contempt sentence on Sunday for refusing to testify against President Clinton in the Whitewater case and she began serving a 2-year sentence for bank fraud. Mrs. McDougal was a partner in the failed Whitewater land development with her former husband, James B. McDougal, who died on Sunday; Mr. Clinton, who was then Governor of Arkansas, and Hillary Rodham Clinton. The McDougals were convicted in 1996. The contempt charge stems from her refusal to cooperate with the Whitewater independent counsel and testify before a grand jury. (AP)
 
A Fierce Wintry Blast
A vast storm system caused deadly flooding in the South, heavy rainfall in the New York region and hurled a bitter onslaught of snow, ice and frigid temperatures at the Midwest. A1
 
Housing-Bias Settlement
Three Texas mortgage lenders have agreed to make nearly $1.4 billion available to low-income and minority buyers over the next three years in a settlement arising from housing-discrimination complaints. A13
 
Combatting Unhealthy Foods
Illness caused by tainted foods will increase unless the Government takes action to detect cases and prevent outbreaks, experts said. A12
 
Au Pair's Conviction Argued
Massachusetts' high court heard arguments for and against the reinstatement of the second-degree murder conviction of Louise Woodward, the 20-year-old former au pair who killed a baby in her care. A14
 
Congressman v. Congressman
A Republican Congressman filed suit against a Democratic colleague, accusing him of disclosing an intercepted conference call involving Republican leaders. A16
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-14
 
In Plea Deal, Youth Agrees To Testify in Baby's Death
Brian C. Peterson, 19, who was charged with murdering his newborn son in a Delaware motel in 1996, pleaded guilty to manslaughter and agreed to testify against the child's 19-year-old mother. A1
 
Effort Against Video Piracy
The Motion Picture Association of America has hired a group of retired city detectives, set them up in the Bronx, given them tens of thousands of dollars to pay informers and sent them out to pound the pavement in search of counterfeiters of videotapes. B1
 
A Memo in Wide Circulation
A Federal judge in Manhattan has learned that up to 40 additional copies of an organized-crime prosecution strategy memorandum -- and perhaps dozens more -- were sent to stockbrokers and investors around the country late last year, and that no one kept records of how many were sent or who received them. B3
 
Hudson River Cleanup
The E.P.A. issued a revised schedule for its study of PCB contamination in the Hudson River, saying it would issue a final decision on a cleanup strategy in June 2001, which is 16 months later than previously planned. B2
 
ARTS E1-8
 
Metropolitan Opera Season
The 1998-99 Metropolitan Opera season will open on Sept. 28 with a performance of "Samson et Dalila" by Saint-Saens, with Placido Domingo and Olga Borodina in the title roles. Mr. Domingo is to be honored at that performance, the 30th anniversary of his Met debut. Luciano Pavarotti's 30th anniversary is to be celebrated in a gala performance on Nov. 22. E4
 
OBITUARIES B9
 
Laurie Beechman
The singer and actress who played Grizabella in the Broadway musical "Cats" for more than five years was 44. B9 
 
BUSINESS DAY D1-21
 
Aerospace Deal Opposed
Lockheed Martin said the Government "fundamentally opposed" its planned purchase of Northrop Grumman, suggesting that Federal regulators may believe that consolidation among military suppliers has gone too far to maintain competition. A1
 
Overtures to Philadelphia
The American Stock Exchange and the Chicago Board Options Exchange have each approached the Philadelphia Stock Exchange about combining their options businesses, according to exchange officials. Separately, the Philadelphia exchange said that its chairman and chief executive was stepping down. D1 
Business Digest D1
 
SPORTS C1-8
 
FASHION B8
 
SCIENCE TIMES F1-6
 
HEALTH F7
 
EDITORIAL A18-19
 
Editorials: The Hudson needs the Mayor; legislating a patient's rights; words for suffering; Gail Collins on term limits.
 
Columns: Thomas L. Friedman, A. M. Rosenthal.
 
Chess E6
 
Public Lives B2
 
Crossword E8
 
Weather B5

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (96%); KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA (94%); MYANMAR (94%); INDIA (93%); ALBANIA (93%); IRAQ (93%); VIETNAM (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); VIET NAM (91%); HOLY SEE (90%); NETHERLANDS (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (92%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (76%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (96%); KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA (94%); MYANMAR (94%); INDIA (93%); ALBANIA (93%); IRAQ (93%); VIETNAM (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); VIET NAM (91%); HOLY SEE (90%); NETHERLANDS (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (92%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (76%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); SEX OFFENSES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (90%); WAR CRIMES (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (89%); RELIGION (89%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (86%); PEACEKEEPING (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (78%); DEATHS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); WOMEN (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); POLITICS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); ARMED FORCES (74%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (74%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (74%); TORTURE (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (74%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (70%); GUILTY PLEAS (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (68%); 

PERSON: AUNG SAN SUU KYI (55%); SONIA GANDHI (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1998



232 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 10, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1273 words

HEADLINE: With New Inspection Setup, a New Annan-Iraq Link

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, March 9

 BODY:
Secretary General Kofi Annan forged another direct link with Iraq today by unveiling procedures for Iraqi presidential sites to be inspected under the watchful eyes of diplomats. He also sent a new commissioner to Baghdad tonight to oversee the operation.
The inspections, which could begin in two weeks, are the latest in a series of steps taken by Mr. Annan, deferring to Iraqi concerns about weapons inspections and allowing Baghdad to bypass the Security Council. Within the last two weeks, Iraqis have effectively moved from near-pariah status to regular and direct contact with the highest ranking United Nations officials. 
 If President Saddam Hussein continues to abide by his side of the bargain struck with Mr. Annan in talks on Feb. 22 and does not interfere with arms inspections at any site in Iraq, the United States will be significantly more isolated in the Security Council in any attempt to prolong sanctions indefinitely.
Emboldened, Iraq is already trying to test its power. The country's Foreign Minister, Mohammed Said al-Sahaf, wrote to Mr. Annan over the weekend demanding to know why arms inspectors were not being disciplined for talking to the press "despite the promises that have been made to us." High-ranking officials said that they do not know what promises Iraq is talking about.
Risking his own reputation if Mr. Hussein does not keep his word, Mr. Annan has taken these steps in the last few weeks:
*He traveled to Baghdad to meet Mr. Hussein, an important gesture the Iraqis had long sought.
*He appointed a political representative, Prakash Shah of India, who will be based in Baghdad and report directly to the Secretary General. Mr. Shah said today that "it is very clear that the Secretary General feels there is need for improved lines of communication between Iraq and the United Nations headquarters."
*He invited Iraq's Foreign Minister to come to New York to discuss Baghdad's complaints about the way the United Nations is administering the "oil for food" program that allows the country to sell limited amounts of oil to pay for urgent civilian needs. Today, Mr. Annan appointed his Deputy Secretary General, Louise Frechette, to oversee the program here.
*He passed on to the Security Council a request from Russia that a Russian be appointed co-deputy chairman of the special commission disarming Iraq, which is known as Unscom. The current deputy is an American, Charles Duelfer, about whom the Iraqis have also complained.
Bill Richardson, the United States representative, did not welcome the idea, saying in an interview that he had "serious reservations" about the proposal.
"We believe Unscom runs very effectively and efficiently under its present hierarchy," he said.
On Wednesday Mr. Annan is to go to Washington to meet with President Clinton and other high-level Administration officials to talk about Iraq -- and American dues owed the United Nations.
The visit is taking place after the Secretary General made several public statements in the last week supporting the view of a number of Security Council members that in a resolution last week endorsing Mr. Annan's Baghdad mission, the United States did not win the right to use force automatically against Iraq.
Until last fall, the United States had successfully isolated Iraq by insisting that all discussions about Mr. Hussein's relations with the arms inspectors be channeled through the Security Council, where Washington brooked no discussion of lifting sanctions at any time in the foreseeable future.
That consensus began to weaken after a series of challenges to inspections from Iraq, which resisted efforts to enter presidential properties and other sites, insisting that it had accounted for all its weapons of mass destruction and should be freed from an embargo that has crippled its economy. The United States responded with threats of force.
The crisis reached a perilous point by mid-February, by which time the United States and Britain had amassed an armada in the Persian Gulf and were prepared to strike Iraq. Mr. Annan then went to Baghdad and effectively ended an era. He apparently intends to remain deeply involved with the Iraqi issue.
Today, officials who briefed reporters on the composition of teams that will inspect the eight presidential sites previously off limits to Unscom acknowledged that the initial visits will merely establish the right of access and not be intensive investigations of the sites.
Iraq will have had months to prepare the sites, and officials admit that any element of surprise, which inspectors have always tried to employ, will be long gone before these initial visits are made. Officials say that the critical test will come later, when inspectors ask to go back.
There is a suspicion among some officials and diplomats that Iraq will try to pass off the initial visits by inspectors and diplomats as final tours of the once-prohibited areas.
Inspectors focused today on another aspect of the agreement reached by Mr. Annan, a general Iraqi pledge to open other areas not included in the presidential properties. In the last few days, the American specialist in concealment, Scott Ritter, and a team of 50 arms experts have been able to visit eight areas that Iraqi had labeled "sensitive."
In agreeing to orderly if largely pro-forma visits to presidential areas and in allowing Mr. Ritter -- whom Iraqis have excoriated and tried to ban in the past -- President Hussein appears to be gambling that under his agreement with Mr. Annan he will be rewarded if he can at least be seen to be abiding by the rules after months of throwing up obstructions. An important assessment of Iraqi cooperation is due in October, and there are many here who believe that Baghdad may have set that as its target for ending sanctions.
After years of threatening to keep a total embargo on Iraq in place until Mr. Hussein is gone, the United States may in the not-too-distant future find itself having to live with only the long-range monitoring system that will replace intrusive inspections if the arms control experts can no longer justify a large-scale active presence in Baghdad.
Iraq, which has not been allowed to sell oil in any but very limited quantities for nearly eight years, is in need of the oil revenues, a former Iraqi minister now in exile in Europe said in an interview.
Jayantha Dhanapala, a Sri Lankan arms control expert who was recently appointed Under Secretary General for Disarmament Affairs, is to go to Baghdad to take over the process of inspections at the eight presidential sites: one in the north, two near President Hussein's birthplace of Tikrit, three in Baghdad, one at a air base west of the capital and one in the south.
Under Mr. Dhanapala's supervision, diplomats will be assigned to inspection teams at presidential sites -- only one of which is a major palace -- to insure that Iraqi concerns are respected. Iraqis have complained that arms inspectors do not show respect for special complexes and are prone to offend national sovereignty and the dignity of the President.
Although Mr. Dhanapala will have his own channel of communication with Mr. Annan, he will be reporting in the field to Richard Butler, executive chairman of Unscom.
In an interview today, Mr. Butler said that he was pleased with the new arrangements, which he described as "unambiguous and simple." He said that all of the commission's prerogatives had been respected in drawing up the inspection procedures, since professional inspectors from Unscom or the International Atomic Energy Agency are to lead the teams.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: IRAQ (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS; SECURITY COUNCIL (UN) UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS; SECURITY COUNCIL (UN) UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; RUSSIA; IRAQ (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%); 

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INSPECTIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); DISARMAMENT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (76%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (71%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (61%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA; ANNAN, KOFI (SEC GEN); DHANAPALA, JAYANTHA; BUTLER, RICHARD; FRECHETTE, LOUISE (DEPUTY SEC GEN); RICHARDSON, BILL (AMB) BILL CLINTON (79%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (79%); BILL RICHARDSON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1998



233 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 10, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1102 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and Allies Set Sanctions on Yugoslavia

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: LONDON, March 9

 BODY:
The United States and its Western allies decided today to impose modest diplomatic and economic sanctions on Yugoslavia for President Slobodan Milosevic's "unacceptable use of force" against the ethnic Albanian majority in the province of Kosovo.
Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright, who had been seeking immediate and firm action against Mr. Milosevic, said today's decision was "satisfactory." It was made in a four-hour emergency meeting of the so-called contact group that monitors Yugoslavia and the four neighboring republics that seceded from it. 
 Ms. Albright has said she wants to approach Serbia -- the republic that dominates what remains of Yugoslavia -- with a mixture of diplomacy and punishment, and she has insisted that the Serbs recognize the legitimate rights of the ethnic Albanians.
She said today: "We are obviously going to keep our eye on the ball and make sure that this agreement sticks. If we don't get the kind of result we want, we need to remember that the only kind of pressure President Milosevic understands is the kind that imposes a real price on his unacceptable behavior."
It was difficult for the members of the contact group -- the United States, Britain, France, Germany, Italy and Russia -- to reach consensus, even on the sanctions imposed today.
Italy and France began the day wishing only to threaten Mr. Milosevic now and take action, if necessary, later, and Russia ended the day by dissociating itself from the only sanctions likely to have much bite in Belgrade.
No measures will take effect until 10 days have passed and the situation in Kosovo has been reviewed. At that point the contact group could add to or subtract from the list of sanctions it has approved.
The group agreed to push for a resolution by the United Nations Security Council imposing a comprehensive arms embargo against Serbia.
It also decided to stop supplying equipment that could be used for internal repression or terrorism, to deny visas to those responsible for repression in Kosovo and to halt financing of export credits by foreign governments for trade and investment.
The last includes money for privatization of state-owned companies, which American officials say Mr. Milosevic uses to finance his Government. Italy is currently helping to finance the privatization of the Serbian telephone system, a project that is likely to go ahead despite the sanctions.
But even after a long telephone call by the foreign ministers of Britain and Germany and the American Secretary of State to their Russian counterpart, Yevgeny M. Primakov, Moscow was willing to agree only to the first two measures, which are the least painful.
But Mr. Primakov agreed to consider the two other sanctions if Mr. Milosevic did not stop the harsh crackdown on ethnic Albanians who favor greater autonomy or independence for Kosovo, said Foreign Secretary Robin Cook of Britain.
Russia has historically been an ally of the Serbs and has often had to make delicate choices regarding international decisions to punish them.
American officials said they were pleased that Moscow had moved as far as it had, but one official noted that Russia might not vote in favor of an arms embargo in the Security Council, though he said it was unlikely to veto one. A senior German diplomat, Wolfgang Issinger, said, "We realize it's been extremely difficult for the Russians here."
There will be another meeting of the contact group in Washington on March 25, when Mr. Milosevic's conduct will be judged again.
"We want President Milosevic to know we will be watching very closely how he responds," said Mr. Cook, speaking for the group. "I hope that when we meet again we will see evidence that the situation in Kosovo is stabilizing on the basis of respect for civil liberty, peaceful expression and international law."
Within the 10 days, a statement by the group said, Mr. Milosevic should take "rapid and effective steps to stop the violence and engage in a commitment to find a political solution to the issue of Kosovo through dialogue."
In particular, the statement said, he should withdraw special police units from Kosovo, allow access by the International Committee of the Red Cross and contact group diplomats and commit himself publicly "to begin a process of dialogue."
The officials are concerned that ethnic tension in Kosovo could spread to the former Yugoslav republic of Macedonia and even beyond, to Greece and Turkey. But the analogy to Bosnia and the "ethnic cleansing" that Serbs carried out there during the war over the breakup of Yugoslavia that began in 1991 is a legally awkward one.
No one in the West challenges Serbia's sovereignty over Kosovo or the right of the authorities to put down an armed insurrection there. At issue is the brutality with which Mr. Milosevic has moved to repress the Albanians, and the American conviction that unless he is checked, the kind of ethnic purging that changed the face of Bosnia will begin again.
"We don't want a repeat of 1991," Ms. Albright said today, "when the international community did not react with sufficient vigor and force."
This time, she said, the West must act and see this crisis not as an internal affair, but as "an affront to universal standards of human rights we are pledged to uphold." She said it represented the kind of conduct that had drawn the former Yugoslavia into civil war.
"Once again, President Milosevic is playing with fire," she said. "Once again, he has tried to solve his problems not with the force of argument, but with the argument of brute force."
The entire contact group, including the Russians, also agreed on a series of measures intended as "preventive diplomacy," including an agreement to have some form of international peacekeeping presence in Macedonia after the mandate of the current force ends in August. The current force includes some 350 Americans and patrols the republic's border with Serbia.
The group also urged the international tribunal for war crimes in the former Yugoslavia to investigate the recent violence in Kosovo, in which more than 70 civilians have died, and urged a new mission by former Prime Minister Felipe Gonzalez of Spain on behalf of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe.
It also called on the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights to visit Kosovo and for other diplomats and officials of non-governmental organizations to visit there.
"We need to know what is happening in Kosovo," Mr. Cook said. "An international presence on the ground may be the best way to deter violence there."
 

CORRECTION-DATE: March 11, 1998, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article yesterday about sanctions against Serbia for its crackdown on ethnic Albanians in Kosovo Province misstated the timing of the measures. The sanctions, imposed by the United States and its allies, take effect immediately. (There is a 10-day period for a review, after which the sanctions may be revised.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); ALBANIA (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); GERMANY (90%); FRANCE (88%); MONTENEGRO (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (74%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (55%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS; SECURITY COUNCIL (UN) UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS; SECURITY COUNCIL (UN) UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; MONTENEGRO; KOSOVO (SERBIA); RUSSIA ; SERBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); ALBANIA (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); GERMANY (90%); FRANCE (88%); MONTENEGRO (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (74%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (55%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SERBIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; ARMS SALES ABROAD; FINANCES EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (93%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); PRIVATIZATION (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (88%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (85%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); ARMS EMBARGOES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (77%); APPROVALS (69%); ARMS TRADE (67%); EXPORT TRADE (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (66%); TERRORISM (50%); 

PERSON: ERLANGER, STEVEN; MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES); ALBRIGHT, MADELEINE K (SEC) SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1998



234 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 11, 1998

SECTION: Section G; Page 10; Column 1; Adventure Sports 

LENGTH: 1647 words

HEADLINE: Moab's Natives Struggle With an Overabundance of Wildlife

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER SMITH; Christopher Smith is the roving reporter for The Salt Lake Tribune and writes frequently about Western issues.

 BODY:
IT is called a sky anchor, and when folded is about the size and heft of a silk handkerchief. Will Oxx throws one skyward as he runs and leaps off an orange sandstone cliff, free falling toward the rocky canyon bottom, a quick 440 feet below.
After a few sphincter-tightening seconds, the sky anchor opens and tugs hard on a string attached to a backpack Oxx is wearing, and an oblong canopy parachute is deployed, the rushing air colliding with the nylon surface so violently it echoes off the canyon wall like a shotgun blast. 
 "Some people go to a church and stand in front of a big manmade monolith to feel the power of God," Oxx, a cliff jumper from California, said after floating to the desert floor. "Me, I feel it here in that compressed moment when I've crossed a line and I can't turn back. It's an intense, total commitment, a life expression."
To worshipers of the almighty adrenaline, this desert community in southeastern Utah is the new Mecca. Within a 20-mile radius of the town of Moab can be found one of America's premier white-water stretches, an internationally known mountain bike trail, scads of unclimbed cliff faces, tree-lined back-country ski runs and a spidery maze of treacherous Jeep tracks, all set against an otherworldly backdrop tinted with red, yellow, black, purple, white and gray.
A landscape of extremes, it is also extremely dangerous.
"Wherever we look there is but a wilderness of rock," wrote Maj. John Wesley Powell, the Colorado River pioneer, one of the first whites to gaze upon the Moab canyon country. "Deep gorges, where the rivers are lost below the cliffs and towers and pinnacles; and ten thousand strangely carved forms in every direction; and beyond them, mountains blending with the clouds."
Later in the journey, Powell, who had lost an arm in the Civil War, became "rimrocked" -- unable to move up or down -- while climbing a redrock wall. In what was probably the first recorded "technical rescue" in canyon country, the Major needed a climbing companion to lower a pair of long underwear and hoist him from danger.
Situated where the Colorado River begins its piercing descent to the Grand Canyon, Moab was the "land beyond the Jordan River" to the Mormon settlers who bestowed its biblical name. Populated by fruit growers and cowboys, it was an isolated outpost until 1952, when the discovery of uranium prompted a mining boom that had dwindled by the 1970's.
Moab's economy and population eroded until two brothers who were out of work as uranium miners, Bill and Robin Groff, began selling newly introduced "mountain bikes" from a converted warehouse in 1983. The Groffs discovered that the fat-tired, multigeared bicycles were perfect for traversing the Slickrock Trail, an undulating nine-mile circuit over smooth mounds of pink, 200 million-year-old rock that had been blazed by Jeeps and dirt bikes.
"That trail was a terror on a motorcycle," said Bill Groff, whose Rim Cyclery bike shop remains a staple of the spandex bike short set. "There are places where it can go Monday on you real fast, and you don't want to be riding something that weighs 300 pounds. You have much more control with a bicycle."
Today, more than 110,000 mountain-bike trips are made over the Slickrock Trail every year, the path worn black with the rubber left by screeching tires. Nighttime mountain biking has gained in popularity because of crowding during the day and more powerful bike lights.
T HE trail has made Moab a mother lode of recreation that Groff -- sometimes to his dismay as a native -- gives little chance of petering out, "because this country is mesmerizing," he explained.
"I used to fly air tours, and the country says it all -- you don't have to speak," she said, "you can go from one foot off the ground to 18,000 feet, and it is constantly changing."
The landscape is a wrinkled, weather-worn desert skin that invites exploration and serves as a backdrop for an average of 50 television commercials annually, hawking soft drinks, energy bars, sport utility vehicles and feminine hygiene products. Nike and Chevrolet have borrowed Moab's name and image for beefy sneakers and sporty auto-option packages.
"We definitely thought we could associate our product with this area as the most extreme testing ground, where you can be snowboarding in the mountains in the morning and mountain biking in the desert in the afternoon," said Michael Jackson, whose Moab-based Zeal Optics sunglasses are sold worldwide. Another local company, Dura-Ride, manufactures bicycle seat covers from bulletproof Kevlar materials.
Even the tobacco giant Philip Morris has used Moab for the last 15 years as a backdrop for its Marlboro Adventure Team, a cigarette sales promotion targeted at international markets. Selected contestants from Europe and Asia are brought to Moab for a week of white-water rafting, off-road racing and horseback riding beneath stoic red mesas. Of the 1.5 million recreation visits to the Moab area last year, many were made by international tourists fulfilling John Wayne fantasies.
"Those Europeans, the harder you go, the better they like it," said Val Dalton, a third-generation Utah cattleman who requires "guest cowhands" to ride horseback 10 to 12 hours a day, paying $140 a day to haze wayward steers out of slot canyons on a 200,000-acre ranch south of Moab. "The foreigners, they enjoy that we offer no cushy extras like electricity or running water. But the Californians, forget it. Most of them are the biggest wimps you've ever seen."
Thousands of domestic Walter Mittys flock to Moab as well, perhaps inspired by too many Jeep Wrangler commercials and REI outdoor gear catalogues. Moab's lure as a haven for adventure recreation fuels the town's tourist-based economy, but it has caused an outbreak of what local paramedics call testosterone poisoning. Others suffer from ignorance.
"So many people assume these trails are like Disneyland, with water bubbling out of fountains along the way," said Kaaron Jorgen, who helped publish a desert environment safety brochure after befriending the mother of one of two Iowa boys who died of dehydration while lost on a 1995 mountain bike trip near Moab.
"She told me her son had all these magazines spread across his bed when he was planning his trip, with beautiful pictures and exciting stories about the canyon country," Jorgen said. "After he died, she went back and read those magazines, and not one of them ever mentioned what a harsh environment this is."
N OT only are some greenhorns unaware of the need to carry water -- as many as three gallons per person per day may be required in summer heat -- but many know little about the expensive, high-end equipment they've brought along.
"People come out here with their brand- new, $2,500 mountain bikes and don't even know how to shift," said Russ von Koch, the Moab recreation planner for the Bureau of Land Management, which administers much of the region's popular recreation sites.
The incursion of adventurers has put a significant strain on local services and taxpayers. Grand County, of which Moab is the seat, averages 145 search-and-rescue missions a year, most for newcomers who overestimate personal abilities and underestimate wilderness.
"It's difficult for local people to continue to foot the bill for these searches, which are primarily for people who are visitors to the area," said Sheriff Jim Nyland, whose rural county of 12,000 swells to more than 20,000 from Easter weekend to Halloween. "This place is beautiful, there's lots to do, but we get so many foreigners and people from outside the area who have no idea of the desert environment."
The growing popularity of once-elite sports like technical rock climbing has forced volunteers on the local search-and-rescue team to learn the intricacies of recovering victims in high-angle or vertical situations.
"Five years ago, a technical rescue was tying a rope to the bumper of a Jeep and hauling it up," said Frank Mendonca, the search-and-rescue coordinator for Grand County. Now, team members must be familiar with climbing specialties like Prusik Hitches and Petzl Stops, as well as night rescues and redundant backup systems.
Cataract Canyon, an 18-mile stretch of the Colorado River near Moab with 26 rapids significant enough to have names, has become a magnet for white-water junkies during the spring runoff, when the chili-colored water can rise into 30-foot-high standing waves that peak in a haystack of foam. During a 42-day period last spring, National Park Service rangers rescued 43 people who had been thrown from rafts by the snowmelt-charged current. Another 90 who were tossed overboard swam to safety or were rescued by other rafters.
"The river was carrying everything: tires, trees, dead animals," said Steve Swanke, a Canyonlands National Park river ranger. "Shoot, I even saw a refrigerator float by. In those conditions, we know we're going to have rescues because even if it's 90 degrees in the canyon, the water is cold enough to cause hypothermia."
But it is exactly those conditions that draw the thrill-seekers, novice and veteran.
"It's fabulous, spectacular, a little scary and sometimes a lot scary," John Williams, a Moab river runner for 30 years, said of the Cataract spring flood. "I can't explain it. All I know is the way I feel when I get to the bottom -- and it is utter exhilaration."
Oxx, whose Cliff Jumpers of America organization counts 200 active members, understands the appeal. During breaks from his job as a Federal Express pilot, he scouts Moab for a new ledge to leap off, finding salvation on the edge.
"It's beautiful country, but not everyone is satisfied driving a Winnebago and being a windshield tourist," he said. "Knowing I'm doing something where my life could be taken away makes me feel more alive than ever."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bill Groff, left, and his brother, Robin, outside their mountain-bike store. (Tom Till for The New York Times); A cliff jumper takes the plunge from a rock formation known as "Big Tombstone," near Moab, Utah. Jumpers free fall for two seconds before throwing out a small parachute. (Trent Nelson/The Salt Lake Tribune)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: UTAH, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOAB (UTAH); UNITED STATES (94%); UTAH, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ATHLETICS AND SPORTS; WATER; RESCUES MOUNTAIN BIKING (89%); RELIGION (89%); SKIING (78%); MOUNTAINS (77%); WILDERNESS (74%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (72%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (71%); SPORTS DRINKS (71%); SPORTS (70%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (70%); SPORTS & RECREATION (70%); CYCLING (70%); DESERTS (69%); URANIUM MINING (62%); FRUIT & NUT FARMING (50%); 

PERSON: SMITH, CHRISTOPHER

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 1998



235 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 11, 1998

SECTION: Section F; Page 2; Column 3; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 1220 words

HEADLINE: Wine Talk;
Why New Jersey Loves Pennsylvania And Other Strange Liquor Law Tales

BYLINE: By Frank J. Prial 

 BODY:
IN Chicago, it's now O.K. to feed wine to a dog. Or so one must assume, as a city law that banned serving Champagne to Skippy has been repealed. There is no way of telling how the dogs feel about this, but among connoisseurs of ludicrous wine legislation, the dog law will be missed.
Not that there is any shortage of laws designed to inconvenience wine drinkers. Around the country, hundreds of state and local laws, ghosts of Prohibition, make buying and selling wine, spirits and beer far more complicated than it should be. 
 For example, New York State bans the sale of wine in grocery stores, to keep it out of the hands of minors. Or so we are told.
Yet, beer is sold in grocery stores, in full view of impressionable youngsters -- and only in grocery stores. Every day, hundreds of out-of-state visitors are surprised to hear clerks in New York liquor stores say, "We're not allowed to sell beer."
New York is one of 15 states that ban the sale of wine in grocery stores outright. In Minnesota, however, only grocers in the three largest cities sell wine; Rhode Island limits wine sales to towns with 10,000 or fewer residents, plus Newport.
Once credit cards were banned in liquor stores and wine shops, but now Arkansas is the only state where they are not allowed. In New York, you can use a credit card to buy wine, but only if you show up at the store in person. In Alabama, it's illegal to buy any alcoholic beverages by telephone, fax or E-mail.
Let's say you are a wine connoisseur and you've decided to sell your collection of rare wines to another collector. Don't even try it in New York, or in most other states. Wine must be sold through a licensed retailer. Naturally, there is a busy and lucrative trade in illicit wine sales.
It's the same with wine auctions in New York. They were banned for years until an arrangement was made that puts the retailers in charge. Any wine purchased at an auction in New York must be cleared through a licensed retailer, who adds his fee to the cost.
In states where wine prices are regulated, a retailer can't give away even a cheap corkscrew. Such premiums are seen as a reduction in the price of the wine, though in fact the consumer pays the full amount. On the same principle, Arkansas bans that old saloon standby, the free lunch. Should a Little Rock barkeep so much as offer a customer a ham sandwich, he risks a $100 fine and 30 days in the county jail.
In Utah, a restaurateur takes similar chances in offering a customer a wine list. If the patron asks for the list, no problem, but offering it unbidden is looking for trouble with the law. So is serving a second glass of wine to someone who hasn't finished the first.
Most of these outlandish or silly rules date from just after Prohibition's repeal, when they were meant as concessions to the prohibitionists, who were still active at the time. Originally, these laws dealt with the moral aspects of drinking: banning sales of it on Sundays, for example, and seeing that taverns were not established anywhere near a church.
In recent years, laws against wine and liquor have taken on a more protectionist role. The controversy over direct shipments from California wineries to consumers around the country is a case in point. Direct shipment of wine into New York State is banned, ostensibly because minors might buy it, using phony identification and a parent's credit card. In fact, this issue has little to do with concern for minors and much to do with the state's well-organized wine and liquor distributors, the industry's middlemen, who lose income on every direct sale. Pressed by distributors, several states have made direct shipment a felony.
The Wine Institute, which represents most of the California wineries, works to abolish anti-wine laws and to head off new ones.
"They range from the unnecessary to the absurd, but they effectively rob the American consumer of economic rights and freedom of choice regarding wine," said John DeLuca, president of the institute.
Not surprisingly, the institute is not reluctant to point out some of the laws its sees as most restrictive. Like the Colorado law requiring wine to be sold in containers no smaller than 24 ounces and spirits in containers no smaller than a fifth of a gallon. What this does is prevent the average drinking man from slipping a pint of his favorite into his jacket or back pocket. It also means that splits of Champagne and half-bottles of wine are illegal.
At the same time, Colorado decrees that nothing can be stored in hotel mini-bars but miniatures; no cans of beer, no half-bottles of wine. Half the law says "nothing too small," and half says "nothing too large."
In Florida, wine can't be sold in a container larger than a gallon. In Kentucky, where some counties are dry and some are not, it's illegal to take alcoholic beverages into a dry county but O.K. to take them out, so long as they are in containers no smaller than three gallons. Presumably, this is for whisky distillers who happen to be based in dry counties.
Probably the most egregious government encroachment on America's drinking habits is the controlled state. In 18 states, plus Montgomery County, Md., sales of wine and spirits are controlled by a state-run monopoly. The largest of these states is Pennsylvania. Over the years Pennsylvania governors have sworn to rid the state of this uncompetitive relic. None have been able to overcome the unions of the Pennsylvania Liquor Control Board's employees.
Pennsylvania wine drinkers vote with their feet or, more accurately, with their cars. Liquor store owners in neighboring states estimate that more than one-third of their fine-wine customers come from Pennsylvania.
Mark Squires, who teaches at Temple University in Philadelphia and puts out a wine magazine on the World Wide Web, estimates that wine enthusiasts in Pennsylvania probably buy only 20 to 30 percent of their wine in the state. The other 70 to 80 percent they buy across the Delaware River in New Jersey, where selections are greater, clerks more knowledgeable and prices 10 to 15 percent lower.
One thriving Camden, N.J., retailer said of the Pennsylvania liquor bureaucrats, "I bless them every day."
 
Tastings
Coppola Opus
Niebaum-Coppola Rubicon 1993, Napa Valley. About $55.
 
RUBICON, the proprietary wine from Francis Ford Coppola's California estate, has become something like the head of a large and growing family of Italian-American wines. Each year, it seems, new wines emerge from the imaginations of Mr. Coppola and his winemaker, Scott McLeod. But Rubicon is still the best. It is a cabernet-based wine with varying amounts of merlot and cabernet franc, depending on the vintage.
In earlier vintages, beginning with 1978, Rubicon was not released until it had aged about seven years in the winery. This 1993 obviously spent less time in the cellars, but it did have 25 months in French oak, and it has great depth and intensity to show for it. The price is a bit stiff, considering that the first Rubicons were about $29. But then, what good Napa Valley wine isn't a lot more expensive now than it was a decade ago? In fact, given the proliferation of $75 and $100 wines recently, Rubicon is something of a bargain. Dare one say, Get them while they last?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KGC (NYSE) (58%); K (TSX) (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); NEWPORT, RI, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: KINROSS GOLD CORP (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); NEWPORT, RI, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; WINES; BEER; STATES (US); LAW AND LEGISLATION; LOCAL GOVERNMENT; LAW AND LEGISLATION ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (96%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (92%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (91%); LIQUOR LAWS & LICENSING (90%); BEVERAGE SALES & REVENUES (90%); WINE (90%); BEVERAGE PRICES (89%); AUCTIONS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); BEER & ALE (89%); DOGS (78%); DRINKING PLACES (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); ANIMAL CONTROL (72%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (70%); 

PERSON: PRIAL, FRANK J MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 1998



236 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 11, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 38 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:
MARK WEAKENS. The mark fell against the dollar for the first time in three days, hurt by expectations that German interest rates would not be rising soon. In New York, the dollar cost 1.8287 marks, up from 1.8274 Monday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the German mark to the dollar, since September 1996. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (90%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (90%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES GERMAN MARK (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); INTEREST RATES (86%); TRENDS (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 1998



237 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 11, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 255 words

HEADLINE: Gain in Productivity Slowed in Late 1997

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 10

 BODY:
Growth in productivity, an indicator of how quickly living standards can rise, slowed a bit as 1997 ended.
The gain in the fourth quarter, 1.6 percent at an annual rate, was revised from last month's 2 percent estimate, the Labor Department said today. And it was less than half the 3.6 percent spurt in the third quarter. 
 The revision in output per hour by nonfarm workers did not alter the estimated productivity gain for all of 1997 -- 1.7 percent. That followed a 1.9 percent increase in 1996.
Judged by recent standards, gains in productivity during the last two years have been relatively strong. Productivity advanced just 1 percent a year, on average, from 1974 through 1995 after having risen at a annual average of nearly 3 percent during the 1960's and early 1970's.
Sluggish productivity in the 1970's and 1980's has been cited as the cause of a host of economic problems, including widening economic inequality and slipping consumer purchasing power.
Conversely, the pickup of the last few years could help explain the peaceful coexistence of strong economic growth and declining inflation. Strong rises in productivity mean employers can pay workers more -- because they are producing more -- without raising prices.
Many analysts say that productivity growth has been higher than has been reported by the Government recently. They say the discrepancy comes from the difficulty in measuring output gains in services, which are being helped by the rapid advance of high-technology tools. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRODUCTIVITY PRODUCTIVITY (96%); LIVING STANDARDS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (79%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 1998



238 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 11, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: About New York;
Championing Lady Justice In the Bronx

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ 

 BODY:
LADY JUSTICE presides over the entrance to the old Bronx County Courthouse, her sandblasted robes fairly gleaming in contrast to the fenced-in hulk's soot-encrusted walls. She casts her gaze beyond Third Avenue, over a vista of newly built homes that have slowly brought this section of Melrose back to life.
Yolanda Garcia takes pride in that statue, which she used to see all the time growing up in the neighborhood, where her family runs a carpet business. After all, Lady Justice remained untouched by the scavengers who descended on the building in search of Beaux Arts booty when it was shuttered in the late 1970's. 
 "But we still have the statue," Ms. Garcia said. "Remember, our statue is not blindfolded. She doesn't have the scales of justice. She does have a shield and a sword. She knew what was coming. She's one tough broad."
As tough as Ms. Garcia and her neighbors, who belong to Nos Quedamos (We Stay), a grass roots planning group that has spent years literally drawing up a new vision of homes, streets and parks for their once-ravaged community. Although the group secured $1 million in government and foundation grants to turn the courthouse into a civic center, the city auctioned it for $130,000 in 1996 to an electrical contractor who never made clear what plans he had for the 1914 landmark structure.
Nos Quedamos unsuccessfully sued the city to try to stop the sale. It became a moot point late last year, when the city repossessed the building after declaring the contractor in default on payments. But rather than try to work out an agreement with Nos Quedamos -- whose work has been praised by architects and featured in museums -- the city will once again put the building on the block next week.
The insistence on making a buck from the auction has angered Ms. Garcia and her supporters, who noted that the city has sold some buildings to community groups for $1. Officials had no problems ceding management of Central Park to a nonprofit group, so why won't they let Nos Quedamos relieve them of a building nobody uses?
"The city seems intent on making some kind of political point here," said Bronx Borough President Fernando Ferrer, who enlisted Nos Quedamos to help with the area's redevelopment. "The political point is obvious. This is something I want to do, and my guess is that some folks at City Hall don't look too kindly at that."
The City Hall press office did not respond to a request for comment. Paula Young, a spokeswoman for the Department of Citywide Administrative Services, which handles the auctions, said the courthouse would stay on the list of properties.
"We feel the private sector should be given the right to bid on the property and buy it," she said. "It's a big space. It could bring an economic viability to the area if a manufacturer purchased it, or a department store or a movie theater. Generally, the market determines a building's use."
So do zoning laws. The city's own maps show that the courthouse and surrounding blocks are not zoned for manufacturing. Urban renewal plans drawn up by the city have made the area a mixture of commercial and residential zones, with the courthouse the focus of a pedestrian mall closed to traffic.
Would the market work its magic though movies? There's already a nine-screen multiplex six blocks away on 161st Street.
"The city doesn't know what it's talking about," said Petr Stand, an architect who has advised Nos Quedamos. "What good is economic development if you ignore a community's infrastructure? The city refuses to work with this community, which really wants to work with them."
AS the auction nears, Ms. Garcia is lobbying elected officials to get the courthouse taken off the auction block. She is also trying to put together financing to see if her group can bid on the building. She needs to buy time.
Although it had to return about $500,000 in foundation grants after the building was sold the last time, Nos Quedamos's other efforts have not been wasted. It sponsored the construction of private homes and apartments for poor and homeless families. It lured a clinic to the area, offering an alternative to medicaid mills or endless waits at Lincoln Hospital.
Still, Ms. Garcia awaits justice, just like the courthouse statue promised.
"She's a good lady," she said. "She's making a statement, as the Bronx makes a statement. She survived. We can, too, if given a chance."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: NOS QUEDAMOS (BRONX CIVIC GROUP) NOS QUEDAMOS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NOS QUEDAMOS (BRONX CIVIC GROUP) NOS QUEDAMOS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; BRONX (NYC); UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: COURTHOUSES; AUCTIONS COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (87%); AUCTIONS (86%); REPOSSESSION (77%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (75%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (71%); FOUNDATIONS (66%); ELECTRICAL CONTRACTORS (65%); 

PERSON: GONZALEZ, DAVID; GARCIA, YOLANDA YOLANDA GARCIA (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 1998



239 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 11, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place;
Profit Warnings Shrugged Off as Dow Climbs Over 8,600

BYLINE: By SHARON R. KING 

 BODY:
Dismissing the previous day's selloff as an overreaction to the first-quarter profit warnings of some high-profile technology companies, investors pushed stocks back up into record territory yesterday and gave the Dow Jones industrial average its first close above 8,600.
The gains, which also pushed the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index to a new high and added more than 1 percent to the Nasdaq composite index, contrasted sharply with Monday, when a buying spree was temporarily curbed. That skittishness reflected concerns about last week's warnings of weaker sales and slowing demand from bellwether technology companies, namely Intel, Motorola and Compaq Computer. 
 A sign that investors had swept aside those warnings was the gain in Sun Microsystems, one of the most actively traded stocks yesterday. It soared 12 percent, or 4 21/32 points, to 42 7/16, leading other technology shares higher after several analysts upgraded the issue, pointing out that investors may have overreacted to fears about slumping profits in pushing the stock lower. Sun Microsystems fell 10 percent last week.
But those declines and an announcement by the company that it would not forecast earnings shortfalls for this quarter led several analysts to revise their outlook for the stock.
Yet as investors chose to focus on uplifting market news, other companies continued to warn of possible earnings shortfalls, some citing Asia as the culprit.
Datum, a telephone data synchronization equipment maker, said it expects a first-quarter loss as orders fall because of the Asian financial crisis. And the semiconductor equipment maker Silicon Valley Group also pointed to the Far East, announcing that delayed Asian orders could prompt a fiscal second-quarter profit slide. Aseco Corporation, a semiconductor testing equipment maker, said fiscal fourth-quarter earnings would falter because of weakness in the computer chip market.
In addition, shares of Consolidated Cigar Holdings fell after the cigar maker said production problems and competition could result in little to no earnings growth in the first quarter.
Despite this news, the Dow average gained 75.98 points, to 8,643.12. The S.& P. 500 gained 1.13 percent, or 11.94, to 1,064.25. The Nasdaq rose 1.35 percent, adding 23.35 points, to 1,748.51.
"The market is shrugging off the earnings news rather remarkably," said Hank Herrmann, chief investment officer at Waddell & Reed.
The market's continued exuberance and ability to rebound from dips prompted the head of technical research at Prudential Securities, Ralph Acampora, to again forecast that the Dow could reach 10,000 before the end of 1998.
Late last year, Mr. Acampora had revised his forecast, saying the Dow would cross that barrier in 1999, but the continued resilience of the market means the rise could come quicker, he said. The rise will be driven by ample amounts of investor cash, declining interest rates and gains in retailing, financials, utilities, airlines and companies that benefit from declining interest rates, he said.
Mr. Herrmann, Mr. Acampora and several other analysts attributed the robust market to the continuing flow of money into stocks from a variety of sources.
Through the end of February, about $32.5 billion had flowed into equity mutual funds, a 15 percent decline from the corresponding period last year, said Charles Biderman, president of Trim Tabs Financial Services, a Santa Rosa, Calif., company that tracks mutual fund cash flows.
However, in addition to equity mutual fund flows, money is coming into the equity market as a result of stock repurchases and mergers and acquisitions, specifically those transactions done for cash, Mr. Biderman said.
This year, more than $159 billion of mergers and acquisitions have been announced, with $32.2 billion as cash transactions, according to the Securities Data Company. Corporations have announced $28.2 billion of share repurchases.
While those numbers are both below levels seen last year, that cash has been enough to sustain the market's rally and keep investors buying when stock prices decline, analysts said.
At Fidelity Investments, flows into equity mutual funds picked up in February, running at about $2.5 billion, compared with little more than $1 billion last year. Executives attributed this year's gains to the popularity of the new Roth individual retirement account, which accounted for 51 percent of the new I.R.A.'s opened by Fidelity clients this year, said Anne Crowley, a Fidelity spokeswoman.
While inquiries about retirement accounts have jumped more than 140 percent this year, investors have been attracted to the new Roth accounts by the tax-free earnings and withdrawal features, she said.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since March 1997. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); MSI (NYSE) (57%); WDR (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC3825 INSTRUMENTS FOR MEASURING & TESTING OF ELECTRICITY & ELECTRICAL SIGNALS (65%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (57%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (56%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (56%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2121 CIGARS (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (51%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MICRO COMPONENT TECHNOLOGY INC (65%); INTEL CORP (58%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (57%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (56%); CONSOLIDATED CIGAR HOLDINGS INC (53%); WADDELL & REED FINANCIAL INC (51%); WADDELL & REED INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX STOCK INDEXES (96%); COMPANY PROFITS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); PROFIT WARNINGS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); MICROPROCESSORS (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); SEMICONDUCTOR EQUIPMENT MFG (86%); SEMICONDUCTORS (86%); BONDS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (74%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); COMPUTER CHIPS (69%); TOBACCO MFG (69%); ELECTRONICS TEST EQUIPMENT (64%); ELECTRICAL TESTING INSTRUMENT MFG (64%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%); 

PERSON: KING, SHARON R RALPH ACAMPORA (69%); HANK HERRMANN (57%); CHARLES BIDERMAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 1998



240 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 11, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 408 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
Treasuries Rise Slightly as Investors Await Retail Sales Report

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
The prices of Treasury securities were only slightly higher yesterday, as oil prices stemmed their downward slide, removing one of the bond market's most recent sources of support. Trading volume was again light.
The price of the 30-year bond was up 3/32, to 102 12/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction, slipped to 5.95 percent from 5.96 percent. 
 "They threw a market and no one came," said Robert Pugliese, senior vice president and director of the fixed-income department at J. W. Charles Securities Inc.
Traders said the bond market basically shrugged off the Labor Department's report of a downward revision for productivity in the fourth quarter; it rose 1.6 percent in the fourth quarter, less than the previously reported gain of 2 percent. They said the revision was in line with expectations.
The next significant economic report this week will be tomorrow, when the Commerce Department reports retail sales for February. Some analysts expect a strong number, but Mr. Pugliese said that would not alarm investors, because the economy has been robust for some time but has not generated increases in inflation.
"Everyone knows the economy is strong, so strong numbers will not surprise the market," Mr. Pugliese said.
Mr. Pugliese said he expected the yield on the 30-year Treasury to stay within a range of 5.85 percent to 6.05 percent for a while. But this week, a big supply of new corporate debt could apply some pressure to the market, at least in the near term.
The World Bank, the Student Loan Marketing Association, more commonly known as Sallie Mae, and other borrowers are planning to sell or have begun selling about $9 billion in debt. Dealers in the biggest of these deals, the World Bank issue, were selling the $4 billion of five-year global bonds at 14 basis points above a five-year Treasury note. (A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.) The bonds will be priced today through underwriters including Goldman Sachs International, J. P. Morgan and SBC Warburg Dillon Read.
In the municipal market, New York City priced $679.6 million of tax-exempt general obligation bonds through underwriters led by Goldman, Sachs & Company. The bonds were initially priced to yield a maximum 5.45 percent for an issue due in 2027. Serial bonds with shorter maturities were priced to yield from 3.85 percent for securities maturing in 1999 to 5.37 percent for those maturing in 2016.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Treasury Yield Curve" plots yields of selected Treasury securities. Short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale. (Source: Technical Data) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (85%); SLM (NASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (85%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (85%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (85%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (54%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (85%); SLM CORP (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES BONDS (93%); TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (87%); PUBLIC DEBT (86%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (73%); RETAIL SALES (72%); MERCHANT BANKING (72%); PRODUCTIVITY (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); STUDENT LOANS (64%); INTEREST RATES (59%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT ROBERT PUGLIESE (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 1998



241 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 11, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1043 words

HEADLINE: Japanese Map A Plan to Aid An Ill Economy

BYLINE: By SHERYL WuDUNN 

DATELINE: TOKYO, March 10

 BODY:
Bowing to pressure from Washington and other Western governments, officials in Japan's ruling party strongly suggested this week that they are putting together a package of $80 billion or more to stimulate the nation's economy.
Only sketchy pictures of the package have emerged, but it appears that a tax cut, as favored in the West and by some Japanese business leaders, will not be a substantial part of it. Its size is uncertain, too, with amounts ranging from $48 billion to nearly $160 billion having been floated by Liberal Democratic Party leaders. 
 Politicians hope that such a stimulus can revive business confidence and prevent the stagnating economy from getting worse. But many critics are worried that the money will instead be spent on pet projects or doled out in pork-barrel fashion.
And economists say that unless the Government takes giant steps to deregulate various industries as well, any long-term recovery is doubtful.
"Basically, you have to have a kind of revolution here," said Peter J. Morgan, senior economist at HSBC Securities Japan Ltd.
While officials in Washington and Western Europe have stepped up calls for Japan to stimulate its economy, the Government here has been almost stubborn, offering a trickle of economic measures.
Even an $80 billion package would represent only about 2 percent of Japan's annual economic output, and most of the money is likely to be spent on traditional public works, rather than returned in the form of tax cuts that would leave corporations and citizens with extra after-tax money to invest or use to buy goods.
Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto has apparently agreed on a stimulus package with party leaders, Japanese newspapers reported. But party officials have been cagey about announcing a package while the current budget is still being debated, and they have said that any open discussion of fiscal stimulants outside the budget will have to wait until after the budget is passed, probably in April. In the meantime, politicians hope that making pronouncements about spending will help restore confidence in the financial markets.
Nevertheless, Taku Yamasaki, the party's top policy maker, said on television Sunday that some new money would go into public projects involving telecommunications, the environment and education, and that a package would include tax incentives for corporate investment.
The stock market here seems to have shrugged off his remarks, with the benchmark Nikkei index of 225 issues falling 159.44 points on Monday and rising only slightly today to 16,982.82, up 10.29 points.
The American Secretary of the Treasury, Robert E. Rubin, and others are calling on Japan to reduce taxes by billions of dollars, and some economists have called for an extension of the $15.9 billion in income-tax cuts announced in December.
But Mr. Yamasaki said income-tax cuts were unlikely to increase personal consumption, and some business executives are worried that the money from tax cuts would be saved rather than spent.
Japanese society is aging, and many people worry that the pension system will go bankrupt by the time they retire, so they are trying to build their own nest eggs.
"People are not spending money," said Kazuo Nukazawa, senior managing director at the Keidanren, the leading business federation. In line with the organization's goal of stimulating he economy, he said, "I advise many friends to spend in the daytime." But like many Japanese he remains worried about the economic future, so "at night, I go home and tell my wife not to spend."
The Government has been sticking to a policy of fiscal austerity, partly because of a law passed in November that commits it to reduce the budget deficit to less than 3 percent of the gross domestic product by the year 2003. The deficit is projected to be 5.9 percent at the end of the current fiscal year, which ends on March 31, and economic growth is expected to be near zero for the year, so economists say that the economy needs more fuel, not less.
"This is not the time to be siphoning more gas out of the tank," said Robert Alan Feldman, chief economist at Morgan Stanley Japan Ltd. "Yes, they have a large deficit, and it's a serious long-term problem. But if they withdraw stimulus at this time, there is a potential for a very negative deflationary spiral."
Recent figures show that wages and wholesale prices are down slightly from their levels of a year ago, and corporate profits are also projected to be lower. The Cabinet concedes that the economy is "still stagnating."
But Finance Ministry officials, who essentially draw up economic policy in Japan, point out that 40 trillion yen in spending over the last three years, or about $320 billion, has not led to a recovery. So they say, why throw good money after bad?
"Our primary concern is to stop the rising debt," said Masakazu Sakaguchi, chief of the Budget Bureau's research division. "Our position is very strong, very firm."
The November law also decreed that by 2003, Japan must reduce to zero the bonds the Government issues to finance the budget deficit. Essentially, that limits its ability to spend, yet the law has loopholes and it can also be amended. Even now, Mr. Sakaguchi said, the Government has the freedom to spend as much as it feels is necessary on tax cuts or other stimulus measures.
Politicians, though, are more worried than ministry bureaucrats, partly because members of the upper house of Parliament face election this summer. Economists are thus skeptical of the motivation behind any economic package.
"It's focused on projects delivering political returns rather than economic returns," said Russell Jones, chief economist at Lehman Brothers Japan.
But foreign pressure has long been a powerful force in Japan, and members of the United States Congress have passed through Tokyo in recent months to express concern that the stagnating economy here could engulf the American economy, as well.
"If United States equity markets move to drop, Congress would probably blame Japan for that," Mr. Feldman remarked. Then, referring to Japan's politicians, he added, "Whether that is right or not, they would not want to be in the line of fire when Congress gets angry." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (78%); 

COMPANY: HSBC SECURITIES JAPAN LTD (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (78%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TAXATION; FINANCES NEW ISSUES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); POLITICS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); INCOME TAX (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); TRENDS (73%); DEREGULATION (73%); CONSUMPTION (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); LAYOFFS (62%); STOCK INDEXES (60%); 

PERSON: WUDUNN, SHERYL

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 1998



242 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 11, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 777 words

HEADLINE: Belgrade TV Makes Serbs Furious At Albanians

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: BELGRADE, Serbia, March 10

 BODY:
With images of the widows of four Serbian policemen weeping inconsolably at the funerals of their husbands broadcast repeatedly on Government television, President Slobodan Milosevic has stirred the deep anti-Albanian feelings in Serbia.
The police, who were killed in an ambush set by ethnic Albanian guerrillas in Kosovo, have become the most potent symbol of the barrage of state propaganda that depicts Albanians in Kosovo as terrorists and scoffs at calls for respecting human rights in the province. 
 So far, the mounting television campaign appears to be having the effect that Mr. Milosevic apparently wants: Many ordinary Serbs are saying that the police action in Kosovo has been justified.
"How would the American people respond if Albanian terrorists started to shoot at American people?" asked Srdjan Savin, 26, a mechanical engineering student at Belgrade University as he relaxed after classes today at a cafe. "If the United States wasn't putting so much pressure, there wouldn't be so much trouble because then the Albanians would not be so bold."
Just as he used state-run television to drum up Serbian nationalist sentiment in the wars against Bosnia and Croatia, Mr. Milosevic is beginning to use the same techniques in the new drama in Kosovo, Serbian journalists said.
So far, television has failed to show pictures of the more than 70 Albanians who have been killed in Kosovo in the last 10 days.
A number of factors help Mr. Milosevic, who is not widely popular any more, in standing firm on Kosovo, Serbs said in interviews today.
First, Kosovo is the central pillar of Serbian national passion, the place where the holiest monasteries and monuments stand.
Second, the opposition parties that were able to mobilize tens of thousands of protesters against Mr. Milosevic 15 months ago have either joined forces with him or refrained from open criticism of his position on Kosovo.
And while economic sanctions imposed by the West during the war in Bosnia have severely damaged Serbian living standards, there seems to be little fear of more sanctions among a people who are sullen rather than angry about their plight.
"It can't get much worse," said Mr. Savin, who faces uncertain job prospects when he graduates in one year. Demonstrations organized by trade unions to protest the state's failure to pay wages for many months to civil servants have stopped in recent days.
In the current atmosphere, when Serbian police have been killed and the population feels under pressure from the outside world, protesters would feel like "traitors," a Serbian journalist said.
Mr. Milosevic also knows that Serbs have little tolerance for the Albanians, who make up 90 percent of the province of Kosovo. Until 1989, Kosovo was an autonomous region of Yugoslavia, a status granted by Tito.
"Tito's policy was too generous," said Mr. Savin. "The Albanians must adapt and accept Yugoslavia as their own state. They wouldn't get their own schools in Germany." He was referring to the separate school system set up by ethnic Albanian political leaders in Kosovo.
In an effort to stifle news about Kosovo that does not conform with the official view, prosecutors under Mr. Milosevic's control issued criminal charges on Monday against the editors of five independently owned newspapers.
The newspapers were accused of encouraging terrorism and depicting the actions of the Serbian police in Kosovo in a false light.
Gordana Logar, the editor of Danas, said that the authorities were angered that her newspaper had reported how the Serbian Assembly declared its respect for the dead Serbian policemen with a minute's silence but had failed to take note of the Albanians who died in the fighting. She said the Milosevic Government had also taken exception to her newspaper's referring to the dead Albanians as "victims" rather than "terrorists."
In contrast to the blackout in the Serbian media of news that shows sympathy for Albanians, the official Montenegro newspaper, Pobjeda, reported on its front page yesterday that 3,500 Albanian refugees had arrived in Montenegro. Together with Serbia, Montenegro, which is now led by Milo Djukanovic, a political opponent of Mr. Milosevic, makes up what is left of the former Yugoslavia.
The official Serbian press has paid little attention to the visit today of Robert Gelbard, the Clinton Administration's special envoy to the Balkans.
A State Department official described the encounter with Mr. Milosevic during which Mr. Gelbard outlined the new sanctions imposed on Serbia at a London meeting, as "very tough." "Not much was accomplished," the official said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (99%); ALBANIA (97%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); CROATIA (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; ALBANIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); SERBIA (99%); ALBANIA (97%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); CROATIA (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (94%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS AND SECESSION; TELEVISION; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); TERRORISM TERRORISM (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (78%); POLITICS (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (73%); ENGINEERING (68%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (67%); LIVING STANDARDS (62%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%); LABOR UNIONS (60%); 

PERSON: PERLEZ, JANE; MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES) SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 1998



243 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 11, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1168 words

HEADLINE: Atlanta at Crossroads Of Gas Price Paradise

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK 

DATELINE: ATLANTA, March 10

 BODY:
From a distance it seems a mirage, like the gauzy image of a Saharan oasis in one of those French Foreign Legion films. But as one drives closer, the letters and numbers on the sign at the Crown gas station near the intersection of Buford Highway and Interstate 285 sharpen into focus, making it clear that this is no illusion: "Regular -- .79 9//10 ."
In a land of cheap gas, Atlanta has the cheapest. When inflation is taken into account, the nation's gasoline prices have fallen to record levels this month because of an oversupply of crude oil. And they have been driven even lower in Atlanta by minimal gasoline taxes, intense competition among retailers and the convergence of two major pipelines. 
 It has become increasingly common in recent weeks to see gasoline prices break the 80-cents-a-gallon barrier, a breathtaking number to anyone who remembers the rampant inflation and gas rationing that followed the Iranian revolution in 1979. Some service station managers in Atlanta said they had seen prices as low as 75.9 cents, and anyone buying gas here for more than 87 cents a gallon is simply not trying.
In Atlanta, and everywhere across the country, gasoline prices have been in freefall since autumn. The average price for a gallon of regular self-serve gasoline here dropped from $1.09 on Sept. 5 to 87 cents on March 6, according to the Lundberg Letter, which regularly surveys prices at 10,000 gas stations nationwide. The national average fell from $1.22 on Sept. 5 to $1.04 on March 6.
Both Trilby Lundberg, the publisher of the newsletter, and the Energy Information Administration, a Federal agency, said that gasoline prices, when adjusted for inflation, were lower today than at any time since record-keeping began more than 40 years ago. Ms. Lundberg said the average price in Atlanta was the lowest in the country.
"It's just wild," Ms. Lundberg said. "With taxes up, with the quality of gasoline up, with the cost of environmental reformulations up, that this could even occur at all shows not only the resiliency but the daring of competitors to bring this benefit to our economy."
Indeed, many of the consumers filling up at the Crown station in the Atlanta suburb of Doraville said they viewed the price of gas as one of the most tangible signs of the country's economic health. For many, the ability to fill their tanks for just over $10 generates far more optimism than do the latest numbers on job creation and housing starts.
"It's great, I love it," said John R. Dempsey, a 42-year-old hardware store salesman who was happily filling the tank of his 1989 Lincoln Mark VII with 79.9 cent gas. "I do a little traveling on the weekend, and it's nice to be able to fill this thing up for a lot less than I used to. I wonder how long it's going to last."
The primary reason for declining gas prices, industry analysts say, is a worldwide oversupply of crude oil and, thus, of gasoline. The OPEC cartel nations increased production quotas in a meeting last November and those additional barrels are now flooding the market. New oil fields have started production recently in Africa, the North Sea and the Gulf of Mexico. If the United Nations eases sanctions on Iraq, even more oil could come to the market.
Meanwhile, economic turmoil in Asia has undercut demand for petroleum products in that part of the world, as has a warm winter throughout the northern hemisphere. The United States now has stockpiles of 327 million barrels of crude oil, 29 million barrels more than last year, said Joseph A. Lastelic, a spokesman for the American Petroleum Institute.
And as a result, West Texas intermediate crude, which is often used as a benchmark, closed on the New York Mercantile Exchange at $14.26 a barrel today, down from $21.28 a year ago.
In many places, retail gasoline prices, which typically rise in the summer and decline in the winter, have tracked the descent of crude. On Long Island, the average price of regular self-serve gasoline has fallen to $1.17 from $1.33 a year ago, according to the Lundberg Letter. In Newark, it has dropped to $1 from $1.17; in Hartford, to $1.20 from $1.44; in Los Angeles, to 98 cents from $1.29; in Chicago, to $1.11 from $1.33.
But in Atlanta, prices have declined far more. Georgia's gasoline tax, at 7.5 cents a gallon, is the lowest in the country, and its 4 percent state sales tax, which is applied to gasoline purchases, is modest compared with many other states. By contrast, Connecticut has a 36 cent gas tax, the nation's highest, and New York has a 30.38 cent gas tax. A Federal gasoline tax of 18.4 cents a gallon is applied in all states.
Another factor in Atlanta's pricing is the route of two major pipelines directly through the city, providing dramatically lower transportation costs than in cities where gas must travel by truck or barge. The world's largest oil and gas pipeline, the Colonial Pipeline, passes through Atlanta on its way from Houston to New York City, and the smaller Plantation Pipeline crosses Atlanta on its path from Baton Rouge, La., to the suburbs of Washington, D.C.
"The pipelines probably provide about a nickel a gallon price advantage," said Noel L. Griese, a spokesman for the Colonial Pipeline Company, which is based in Atlanta. "What the pipelines do is put the economies of scale of the Gulf Coast refining complex at the disposal of consumers in a place like Atlanta."
The final factor in Atlanta's pricing is competition. A driver's city that has taken slowly to mass transit, Atlanta is congested with gas stations, many of them price-cutting competitors like Quiktrip.
At the Crown station, the manager, Jewel Hossain, said that he took 8 to 10 trips a day up and down Buford Highway checking the prices of his half-dozen competitors. He has occasionally changed his prices as often as three times a day.
"This is the toughest market in the country," Mr. Hossain said. "Everybody's selling below their cost. But if we don't match them we lose our customers."
Although a competitive market may be beneficial to consumers, it is harmful to the city's already hazardous air quality, which has already incited sanctions from Federal environmental and transportation officials. On average, Atlantans drive more than residents of any other American city, nearly 35 miles a day.
In the 13-county metropolitan area, residents drive about 120 million vehicle miles a day -- 27 million miles longer than the distance to the sun -- and that figure is increasing at a rate of about 5 percent a year, said Joel F. Stone, director of planning for the Atlanta Regional Commission, a multicounty planning agency.
"We've been fighting a battle for years dealing with whether you can get people to do something other than drive in their cars by themselves," Mr. Stone said. "We've always felt it takes external forces to get them to take another mode or drive with someone else, and those are usually congestion or pricing. Cheap gasoline doesn't help us do that."

GRAPHIC: Photo: John R. Dempsey filled his gas tank yesterday in Doraville, Ga. (Alan S. Weiner for The New York Times)
 
Graph: "LOOKING BACK: Plunge at the Pump" shows average annual retail gasoline prices, adjusted for inflation, in 1998 dollars, from 1920 through 1970 and 1978 through 1998. Figures are a weighted average of all grades and service. (Source: Lundberg Survey)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); FRANCE (73%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (91%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA (GA); UNITED STATES (91%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); FRANCE (73%); GEORGIA, USA (91%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); TAXATION; PIPELINES OIL & GAS PRICES (95%); GASOLINE PRICES (93%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); GAS STATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); REAL ESTATE (77%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (77%); GASOLINE (77%); FUEL TAX (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (77%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); TAX INCREASES (74%); RETAILERS (74%); HARDWARE STORES (69%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (60%); JOB CREATION (60%); 

PERSON: SACK, KEVIN

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 1998



244 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 11, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 149 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Trade Surplus Rises 212.8% in Japan

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Wednesday, March 11

 BODY:
Japan's politically contentious trade surplus, as measured by the flow of goods and services, soared 212.8 percent in January from the corresponding month last year to 476.2 billion yen, the Finance Ministry said Wednesday.
The surplus in goods alone rose 136.6 percent to 538.8 billion yen. 
 At the Wednesday exchange rate of about 127 yen to the dollar, the current account surplus, the broadest measure of trade in goods and services, was $3.74 billion. It was the 10th straight month that the surplus had increased from a year earlier.
One reason for the enlarged surplus is that Japan's faltering economy has diminished the domestic demand for imports.
The burgeoning surplus is expected to increase calls from Japan's trading partners, particularly the United States, for Tokyo to do more to stimulate the economy so that Japanese consumers purchase more foreign goods.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (74%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (92%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (90%); CURRENCIES (88%); IMPORT TRADE (88%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (85%); EXCHANGE RATES (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 1998



245 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 11, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 487 words

HEADLINE: For Motorcycle Gang Without Motorcycles, Even More Bad News

BYLINE: By JOHN SULLIVAN 

 BODY:
These are hard times for the Harlem Cowboys motorcycle gang.
Most of the gang members don't have motorcycles. Rebel, the gang leader, lives in a motor home. And the headquarters are in a construction trailer. 
 Just when things seemed at their worst, police detectives kicked in the door and arrested them on suspicion of selling machine guns and related hardware. Now even prosecutors don't give them any respect.
"They were known on the street as the motorcycle gang without motorcycles," said Bridget G. Brennan, the city's acting special narcotics prosecutor. "I don't think we ever saw more than two or three motorcycles."
When they did roar down the avenue, Ms. Brennan noted, it tended to be on cheap, low-powered models. "Most of these guys were unemployed," she said, "and Harleys are kind of expensive."
Ms. Brennan said the Cowboys prefer to stalk the neighborhood around 111th Street and Third Avenue on foot, wearing jackets with their official colors: two bloody daggers above a cigar-smoking rack of teeth, and a "batlike object" in the foreground.
The police began investigating the group last year after officers started to suspect that the Cowboys were selling weapons, including military-style machine guns and other exotic firearms.
"We learned that anything you wanted, they could probably get their hands on," said Detective John Ragone of the Manhattan North narcotics major case squad. "They were talking at one point about getting hand grenades."
Seven members of the Cowboys were arraigned yesterday in State Supreme Court in Manhattan. Most were charged with criminal sale of a firearm. The president, Israel (Rebel) Jorge, 51, of Harlem, was also charged with selling drugs. Mr. Jorge's lawyer could not be reached for comment yesterday.
Police officials said detectives seized nine ounces of cocaine from the gang's headquarters during the last two weeks, as well as several guns, including TEC-9 automatic machine pistols, a MAC-11 machine pistol and an AR-15 machine gun with a silencer.
At one time, the Harlem Cowboys were a powerful gang. Founded 42 years ago, the gang is sanctioned by the Hell's Angels motorcycle gang, which gives members the right to attach the letters MC (for motorcycle club) to their colors without fear of reprisals from the Hell's Angels, police officials said.
"But their numbers have dwindled," Detective Ragone said. "They could not get anyone else to enlist."
There are 18 active members of the Cowboys, Detective Ragone said, and most are approaching middle age. But the detective said he believes that with the recent arrests, the gang is essentially out of business.
Several club members worked at jobs in the neighborhood. Police officials said Mr. Jorge provided night security for construction sites.
Doel Rivera, owner of E. J. York construction of Manhattan, said he did not know that Mr. Jorge's group was a motorcycle gang.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: FIREARMS MOTOR VEHICLES (94%); GANGS (91%); FIREARMS (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); MOTORCYCLES (90%); POLICE FORCES (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (77%); ARRESTS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); ARMS TRADE (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (67%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (66%); SUPREME COURTS (64%); COCAINE (62%); 

PERSON: SULLIVAN, JOHN ISRAEL (REBEL) JORGE (83%); BRIDGET G BRENNAN (75%); JOHN RAGONE (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 1998



246 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 11, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 907 words

HEADLINE: Vallone, Attacking Pataki, Begins Race for Governor

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY 

 BODY:
Peter F. Vallone, the Speaker of the New York City Council, declared his candidacy for governor yesterday, portraying Gov. George E. Pataki as an ambitious yet drifting chief executive who has overseen a stagnant economy, deteriorating schools and a troubled health care system.
Mr. Vallone, 62 and facing a forced end to his City Council career in 2001 because of term limits, laid out his candidacy at the beginning of a two-day series of rallies that took him to Long Island, Manhattan, Westchester and Albany. 
 The largely southern tilt of the first day's announcement, at venues where he was assured to draw a crowd, highlights what many Democrats believe is one of Mr. Vallone's main obstacles in winning his party's nomination: he is a Queens Democrat who is little known outside the southern part of New York.
Nevertheless, with New York's City Hall at his back, and surrounded by a thick clutch of political leaders who crowded around him as the cameras snapped, Mr. Vallone sought to do what many Democrats have chosen not to do this year. He offered a case for defeating Mr. Pataki during a time of relative prosperity and amid polls suggesting that the Republican Governor is well regarded by many voters.
Mr. Vallone asserted that New York's economy was lagging behind that of the rest of the nation. He condemned the partisan deadlock that had gripped much of Mr. Pataki's first term. And in fairly biting terms, he asserted that Mr. Pataki was nurturing his own potential national political ambitions at the expense of the state's health.
Mr. Vallone, a soft-spoken lawyer who sometimes had to struggle to make himself heard, declared that he would wage a campaign "that views the Governor's office as the seat of leadership and accountability for the state, not as an incubator for overheated personal ambition and oval-shaped flights of fancy -- a campaign that puts New York first for a change, first ahead of partisan wrangling and patronage and posturing, first ahead of excuses and delays and complacency, first ahead of personal ego and political ambition."
With yesterday's announcement, Mr. Vallone joins a crowded field, but most of his rivals are even less known than he is: James L. Larocca, a former state energy and transportation commissioner; Richard A. Kahan, a developer and former chairman of the State Urban Development Corporation, and Charles J. Hynes, the Brooklyn District Attorney.
The one well-known and well-financed candidate is Lieut. Gov. Betsy McCaughey Ross. She was elected as Mr. Pataki's running mate, but then changed her party registration and said she would seek the Democratic nomination and run against Mr. Pataki.
Mr. Vallone's aides said yesterday that they view Ms. McCaughey Ross as their biggest rival. She was the only Democrat Mr. Vallone criticized in his speech, challenging her political moorings without mentioning her name.
"The Democratic Party is much more than a convenient vehicle with which to advance a political career -- it is a sacred trust passed down from Jefferson, Jackson, Roosevelt, Truman and Kennedy," Mr. Vallone said, as his supporters shivered under the slate-gray skies that rolled over City Hall. "And to those who believe that a party or a person is merely a prop -- I serve notice here today that they will be called to task in this campaign."
Ms. McCaughey Ross, through a spokesman, declined to comment on the criticism. But, suggesting a reason for her political potency, she said: "New Yorkers are ready for fresh approaches and new ideas and they are ready to elect the first woman governor in New York State history."
Mr. Pataki also declined to respond to Mr. Vallone's criticism. "I'll respond to the Democratic candidate when the Democrats have a candidate, whenever that is," the Governor said in Albany.
Mr. Pataki's aides were not so reticent, taking issue in particular with Mr. Vallone's claim that Mr. Pataki was benefiting from a surge on Wall Street, and that in fact, New York economic performance trailed that of the rest of the nation.
"Throughout much of upstate New York, the national economy has been unable to pull communities out of a recession," Mr. Vallone said. "And the governor has been too out of touch -- and out of state -- to help. If this is the best we can do in the midst of a nationwide boom, where will we be when the boom fades?"
Stephen Kagann, Mr. Pataki's chief economist, disputed that claim, saying: "There's a very clear turnaround in the upstate economy. Again you can pick your numbers, but if you look realistically, you would find that most of the upstate economies or regions have turned the corner. Some of them are doing very, very well."
Mr. Vallone faces a number of problems in the months ahead. For one thing, several Democrats questioned whether he had the stomach for a contested statewide campaign. He is known in City Hall as someone who does not take to particularly long days, as he himself suggested in a 1996 interview in which he said he did not want to be mayor.
"I need a family life, and I don't know whether this city allows you to have one," Mr. Vallone said then. "I think you can as president. I think you can as governor. I don't think you can do it as mayor of the City of New York."
He also faces enormous challenges in raising money to match Mr. Pataki, who has already raised $12 million. At last report, Mr. Vallone had raised $2 million.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Peter F. Vallone, the Speaker of the New York City Council, declared his candidacy for governor outside City Hall yesterday. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK CITY COUNCIL (91%); DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK CITY COUNCIL (91%); DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); ELECTION ISSUES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; MEDICINE AND HEALTH GOVERNORS (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); CITIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); TERM LIMITS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); LAWYERS (68%); TRENDS (61%); 

PERSON: NAGOURNEY, ADAM; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); VALLONE, PETER F (SPEAKER) EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (74%); EDDIE GEORGE (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 1998



247 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 11, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1456 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-10
 
India Asks Hindu Party To Form New Government
The President of India asked the country's main Hindu nationalist party to form a coalition Government, after a series of elections that produced no clear national victor. The President met with Atal Behari Vajpayee, left, who is the parliamentary leader of the party, Bharatiya Janata, and its candidate for prime minister. A1 

C.I.A. Allies Face Deportation
Six Iraqis who worked with the C.I.A. in failed plots against Saddam Hussein have been declared threats to American national security in a court ruling so secret that their lawyers cannot read it. A1
 
Serb Police Seize Bodies
Serbian police officers seized the bodies of 51 ethnic Albanians killed in a sweep of separatists in Kosovo province and buried them with bulldozers, witnesses said. The Serbs dismissed threats of sanctions imposed by the United States and other countries. A10
 
Chile's Pinochet Retires
Augusto Pinochet, whose 17 years as dictator of Chile were marked by widespread political killings, stepped down as commander in chief of the armed forces, but he planned to be sworn in as a senator for life. A4
 
Israeli Soldiers Kill Three
Israeli soldiers shot and killed three Palestinians at a checkpoint between the West Bank and Israel, setting off street clashes in Hebron and raising fears of a new round of violence that could further set back deadlocked peace efforts. Two soldiers were arrested in the shooting, and Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu promised an investigation. A6
 
Ortega Faces Accusations
The stepdaughter of the Sandinista leader, Daniel Ortega Saavedra, has accused Mr. Ortega of sexually abusing her for many years. The allegations could derail Mr. Ortega's career and tear apart his party. A3
 
A Seventh Term for Suharto
Electoral delegates leapt from their seats to acclaim President Suharto of Indonesia as their leader for a seventh term, after 32 years of nearly absolute power in the world's fourth-most-populous nation. A6
 
Protest Over Mexico Official
A wave of grass roots protest has erupted against Jorge Carrillo Olea, the prominent Governor of Mexico's prosperous Morelos State, after his highest justice and police officials were implicated in torture, kidnapping and the protection of drug traffickers. A5
 
Saudi King Has Surgery
Saudi Arabia's King Fahd had emergency gallbladder surgery in Riyadh and was reported improving, hospital officials said. The King's gallbladder was not removed, but officials gave no further details. King Fahd, who is in his mid-70's, was hospitalized with a gallbladder infection, but hospital officials said that the infection was subsiding. The King had a stroke in 1995. (Associated Press)
 
NATIONAL A12-21
 
The President's Testifying Comes Under Discussion
President Clinton's top lawyer and prosecutors investigating the Monica S. Lewinsky matter have recently opened discussions over whether Mr. Clinton will provide grand jury testimony, a senior Administration official and a lawyer involved in the inquiry said. A1
 
Mr. Clinton accepted the apology of David Brock, who wrote an article in 1993 that eventually led to the lawsuit by Paula Corbin Jones and, in turn, the current investigation involving Ms. Lewinsky. A20
 
Military Training of the Sexes
The Army, Navy and Air Force are expected to reject an advisory committee's recommendation that urged the nation's armed services to separate men and women for much of basic and advanced training, said officials familiar with drafts of reports from the three branches. A1
 
Prodding Congress to Act
President Clinton took a poke at Congress, noting seven times in a brief speech that in the schedule set by Republicans, legislators have just 70 working days left this year, even though it is only March. But that is still enough time to pass landmark legislation on tobacco and child care, Mr. Clinton said, and he urged Congress to do so. A16
 
Cost-Benefit Testing
A Senate committee approved a bill that would subject future health, safety and environmental rules to new cost-benefit tests, limiting regulators' discretion and potentially opening their decisions to new legal challenges. A18
 
Tobacco Regulation
The Commerce Committee will hear testimony from senators representing various factions in the effort to forge comprehensive tobacco legislation. The Labor and Public Welfare Committee plans to draft the section of the overall legislation involving the regulation of tobacco by the F.D.A. A16
 
A Conviction, and a Vote
Representative Jay C. Kim, the California Republican sentenced on Monday for accepting illegal campaign contributions, surprised colleagues by returning to the floor of the House and casting a vote. A13
 
The Decline of Gasoline Prices
Gasoline prices, when adjusted for inflation, have fallen to record levels because of an oversupply of crude oil, but nowhere are they as low as in Atlanta, where some stations have sold a gallon for less than 80 cents. A12
 
Closing Arguments Are Made
A court-martial in Fort Belvoir, Va., heard closing arguments in the case of Sgt. Maj. Gene C. McKinney, who is being tried on 19 charges of sexual misconduct. A18
 
An Alzheimer's Risk Factor
Blacks and some Hispanic Americans have a puzzling, additional risk factor that makes them much more susceptible than whites to Alzheimer's disease, researchers said. A13
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-6
 
John F. Kennedy Auction Is Drawing Criticism
An auction of John F. Kennedy memorabilia in Manhattan next week has raised the ire of members of the Kennedy family, who question the provenance of some items originally obtained by the President's secretary, the late Evelyn N. Lincoln. Other critics question the propriety of selling the items, rather than consigning them to the Kennedy Library. A1
 
Firecracker Trial Postponed
The trial of a man accused of tossing firecrackers into a crowd outside City Hall was postponed after questions were raised about the accuracy of a police witness's account. The defendant, Wang Jian, was protesting Mayor Giuliani's refusal to allow fireworks displays during celebrations of the Chinese New Year. B1
 
Mass Transit Measure
The Senate approved a $41 billion mass transit measure that Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, the New York Republican who negotiated its passage, said would provide somewhat more money to southern and western states, while largely preserving the complex formulas that have long favored the aging systems in New York, Chicago and Boston. B3
 
Nurses have been stationed at five critical subway stops during rush hours to make sure sick passengers get off the trains quickly. B3
 
Toughening D.W.I. Standards
Governor Pataki proposed legislation that would toughen the state's drunken-driving standards, lowering the blood-alcohol level at which a driver is considered legally drunk to 0.08 percent from 0.10 percent. B6
 
Vallone Announces Candidacy
Peter F. Vallone, the Speaker of the New York City Council, declared his candidacy for governor. B3
 
SPORTS C1-8
 
ARTS E1-10
 
EDUCATION B7
 
Promoting Authors of Color
The San Francisco school board is considering a plan to increase the cultural diversity of the curriculum by requiring that at least half the books assigned to every high school student be by authors of color. B7
 
BUSINESS DAY D1-20
 
Financial Services Bill
House Republican leaders proposed a compromise to break a long stalemate over how to update legislation governing the financial services industry, offering a bill to eliminate many barriers between banks, securities firms and insurers. D1
 
Japanese Stimulus Package
Officials in Japan's ruling party strongly suggested that they were putting together a package of $80 billion or more to stimulate the nation's economy. D1
 
Microsoft Version of Java
Microsoft said it would announce new capabilities for its version of the Java programming language. D2
 
Business Digest D1
 
FASHION B10
 
OBITUARIES B8-9
 
Lloyd Bridges
The actor who played a wide variety of roles in a career that spanned more than five decades was 85. B8
 
DINING F1-10
 
EDITORIAL A22-23
 
Editorials: The cleansing power of free TV; China's economic battle plan; in welfare reform, smaller is better; disclosure of a conversation.
 
Columns: Maureen Dowd, Frank Rich.
 
Crossword E7
 
Weather C7
 
Public Lives B2

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (50%); 

COUNTRY: INDIA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); ISRAEL (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (93%); SERBIA (92%); IRAQ (92%); MEXICO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); CHILE (92%); KOSOVO (79%); ALBANIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); NICARAGUA (79%); 

CITY: RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (79%); 

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (50%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); ISRAEL (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (93%); SERBIA (92%); IRAQ (92%); MEXICO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); CHILE (92%); KOSOVO (79%); ALBANIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); NICARAGUA (79%); RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES ARMED FORCES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); TESTIMONY (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (86%); HOSPITALS (84%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); LAWYERS (75%); LITIGATION (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); EYEWITNESSES (75%); SHOOTINGS (74%); SEX OFFENSES (74%); POLICE FORCES (74%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (71%); DEPORTATION (71%); ARRESTS (69%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (69%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (64%); PEACE PROCESS (52%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (57%); ABDULLAH BIN ABDUL AZIZ (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 1998



248 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 11, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk; Education Page

LENGTH: 1435 words

HEADLINE: High Schools Fear Telling Colleges All About Johnny

BYLINE: By ETHAN BRONNER 

 BODY:
The reports are coming in piecemeal: parents threatening high school counselors with lawsuits if their children fail to gain college acceptance; counselors taking out liability insurance; admissions officers complaining that a student's disciplinary or criminal past is not being reported to them.
With college acceptances a month away, high school guidance counselors say fear of litigation by parents has made them more cautious in letters of recommendation and informal conversations with college admissions officials, threatening the longstanding system by which high school students are selected for cherished freshman class spots. 
 "Counselors are becoming afraid of telling the full truth," said Joyce E. Smith, executive director of the National Association for College Admission Counseling, a group that includes both high school counselors and college officials. "They'll write that Johnny took these courses and was a great student, but they won't tell you that Johnny burned down the gym. Whose job is it to tell admissions officers about that?"
Apart from the growing tendency everywhere to resort to legal action, the sources of these tensions are many.
Colleges increasingly are emphasizing campus safety and worry that if they admit a student with a criminal past who then becomes violent, university officials will be held liable. This makes them more determined than ever to know about students' pasts, especially following a 1995 case in which Harvard College unwittingly admitted a young woman who, as a juvenile, had killed her alcoholic and possibly abusive mother.
At the same time, parents worry that details of disciplinary problems will ruin their children's chances of admission.
And guidance counselors, hearing differing interpretations of state and Federal laws, are caught in the middle.
Past alcohol and drug use, widely reported to college admissions officers in an earlier era, is now shielded under the 1990 Americans With Disabilities Act. Further, the sharpened focus on the place of education in personal economic success seems to make parents more likely to calculate the financial impact of rejection from a top school.
Colleen Quint, a lawyer in Maine who advises colleges, said the atmosphere around admissions is changing dramatically.
"The stakes are so much higher now," she said. "By the time a student graduates from private school, parents have already put tens of thousands of dollars into guaranteeing a spot at a fancy college. Parents now see themselves as consumers with rights. They are making an investment. At the same time, there has been sociological change among students. Today, you have students who have been involved with some serious problems, and that concerns colleges.
"Twenty years ago, if a student had missed a portion of his senior year for alcoholism, counselors would have told admissions officers right away," she added. "The sense in the profession was to tell all, give a complete picture and put problems in perspective, saying now this applicant is back at the top of his game or some such.
"Today, there is a hesitation to do that. Under the Americans With Disabilities Act, you cannot make pre-admission inquiries about disabilities. Alcoholism and drug addiction are disabilities if you have had treatment for them and have moved on."
Many private preparatory academies have long had policies saying that all disciplinary actions against students will be reported to colleges. But some are now saying that they are reconsidering such policies under pressure from parents, as well as legal concerns.
Steven T. Syverson, dean of admissions at Lawrence University in Appleton, Wis., said he found out the hard way about the scope of the disabilities law.
Four years ago, Mr. Syverson received an application from a student who had suffered a psychological disorder and whose grades were weak following a breakdown. The university said it would withhold deciding on her application until the end of the year to see if her grades bounced back. They did not and her application was rejected.
The student's mother complained to the Office of Civil Rights at the Department of Education, which investigated and cleared Lawrence. But it did so on condition that its application form no longer include a question asking counselors whether there were "factors that might interfere with a student's performance, either from discipline, chronic illness or emotional stability."
A similar question exists on dozens of other college application forms.
"This problem of what we can ask and what counselors can report is now a topic at every workshop and conference I attend," Mr. Syverson said. "Counselors are worried about how not to get nailed. We worry about past criminal or disciplinary activity that could reappear on campus and that the college could have liability for. Everyone is getting squeezed on both sides.
"Over the years we had developed a candid relationship, and that is disappearing now. We are getting recommendations that clearly have to pass the test of parents having read them, meaning they are watered down and not very useful."
Although grades, standardized test scores, activities and essays form the basis for admission decisions, guidance counselors have traditionally been seen as important sources of straight information for admissions officers, with whom they have developed a relationship.
But guidance counselors express concerns over the deterioration of that relationship because they are no longer sure what protection they have to report unsavory details.
Scott White, a counselor at Montclair High School in New Jersey, offered a hypothetical case that he said bore parallels to a dilemma he faced in a previous counseling job: a senior who had already been accepted to a college was found distributing hate leaflets, and the principal asked that the college be informed.
"I know that if the college gets wind of this after the student starts attending, the admissions staff there will lose all faith in my honesty," he said. "But the student's parents say they don't want this information communicated. What am I to do?"
Mr. White's concern, he said, flows from a 1974 law known as the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act, or the Buckley Amendment, after James L. Buckley, the Senator from New York who sponsored it as an amendment to a 1965 education law.
Mr. White and many other counselors say they have been told that the act forbids sending student disciplinary records to colleges without express permission from the student's parents. Ms. Quint, the Maine education lawyer, says she knows lawyers who take that stand as well.
But LeRoy S. Rooker, director of the family policy compliance office of the Department of Education in Washington, said that interpretation is wrong.
"Congress clearly intended that you could transfer information of a non-academic nature to an institution where a student was going to enroll," he said.
He acknowledged that state regulations, like the Illinois School Student Records Act, and the Federal Americans With Disabilities Act do complicate the legal picture.
One factor driving the current debate is that crime on campus has become a widely recognized, if low-level, feature of college life, said Dorothy Siegel, director of the Campus Violence Prevention Center at Towson State University in Maryland, which tracks campus violence across the country.
She said that although crime has remained at the same low level for two decades, applicants and their parents routinely ask about crime and violence, often linked to alcohol. As a result, increasing numbers of universities are now asking students and their schools for any history of disciplinary troubles.
The increased use of such questions also stems from the publicity given the 1995 Harvard case, according to many counselors and admission officials. That case involved Gina Grant, an honors student in Boston granted admission. Ms. Grant had not revealed on her application that when she was a 14-year-old in South Carolina she had killed her mother, repeatedly striking her on the head with a lead-crystal candlestick. Harvard, which had asked about past criminal or disciplinary problems on the application, withdrew its acceptance when her past was revealed through anonymous mailings to the university.
Counselors say they are eager to prevent such embarrassments and often resort to coded language in their reports suggesting the college telephone them.
But now some say they have been warned that even that may be subject to legal action.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; GUIDANCE COUNSELORS; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; ALCOHOL ABUSE; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC SECONDARY SCHOOLS (93%); ACADEMIC COUNSELING (93%); LITIGATION (92%); HIGH SCHOOLS (92%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (92%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (91%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (90%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); STUDENT SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (89%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (89%); STUDENT DISCIPLINE (89%); LIABILITY INSURANCE (78%); SCHOOL SAFETY & SECURITY (78%); CAMPUS SECURITY (77%); US AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); SOCIOLOGY (69%); 

PERSON: BRONNER, ETHAN STEVEN T SYVERSON (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 1998



249 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 11, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 622 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Make Plea for Congress To Use Its (Short) Time Wisely

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

DATELINE: CINCINNATI, March 10

 BODY:
President Clinton took a poke at Congress today, noting seven times in a brief speech that in the schedule set by Republicans, legislators have just 70 working days left this year, even though it is only March.
But that is still enough time to pass landmark legislation on tobacco and child care, Mr. Clinton said, and he urged Congress to do so. 
 "We should not let the calendar get in the way of the urgent need for action," he said this morning in Bridgeport, Conn. The President spoke before attending two fund-raising events -- one over lunch in Connecticut, the other over dinner here -- that pulled in $850,000 for the Democratic National Committee.
"Do everything you can to send a clear and unambiguous signal that you do not want the election year to be a relaxation year," Mr. Clinton implored his audience in Bridgeport. "You want it to be a legislating year for the children of this country."
Increasingly, Democrats have cast the Republican-controlled Congress as "do nothing," and the President's call to action was intended to build on that theme. It had the added advantage of portraying Mr. Clinton as steeped in the nation's business, even though the independent counsel's investigation into his relationship with a former White House intern has tied up the White House.
The President's call for Congress to resolve the dispute over tobacco legislation dovetailed with his plea that Congress provide more money for child care. He has said that the proposed $368.5 billion settlement with the tobacco companies would help pay for his $21 billion child-care proposal. Mr. Clinton's importuning on tobacco also provided a way for him to deflect criticism for dining here tonight at the suburban home of a trial lawyer who stands to reap a windfall from the tobacco deal.
The lawyer, Stanley M. Chesley, who has represented smokers, helped negotiate the proposed settlement reached last June between 40 states and the tobacco companies. Mr. Chesley, who testified last week on Capitol Hill in favor of the deal, has said that tonight's cash cornucopia had nothing to do with tobacco.
Closure on the settlement would guarantee lawyers like Mr. Chesley a large but undetermined piece of the pie. Congress is still negotiating over whether to grant the tobacco companies immunity from further lawsuits and how to calculate lawyers' fees.
Ralph Nader and others have criticized Mr. Clinton's attendance at tonight's dinner, saying that it gives the appearance that the President would take Mr. Chesley's side in any tobacco deal because Mr. Chesley raised so much money for him.
Barry Toiv, a White House spokesman, said there was no connection between the fund-raiser and the tobacco legislation.
Mr. Clinton did not address the topic directly. When a reporter asked whether his appearance at the dinner was improper, he shook his head but said nothing.
Tickets to the sit-down dinner cost a minimum of $10,000 per person and $15,000 per corporation. About 100 people attended, bringing in more than $500,000 for the Democratic Party, which is still $9 million in debt from the 1996 Presidential campaign.
Earlier in the day, Mr. Clinton visited a child-care center at the Housatonic Community-Technical College in Bridgeport. He then spoke in a small auditorium to 200 people about child care, restating his proposal for $21 billion over the next five years so that 2 million families can receive subsidized child care.
The President said that the nation's low unemployment had come at a price -- working parents had to leave their children in child care. "We cannot have a country that asks people to make a choice between succeeding at home and succeeding at work," he said.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (56%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

CITY: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (56%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (56%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (56%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (89%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (89%); CHILD CARE (89%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (86%); SMOKING (77%); FUNDRAISING (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); LAWYERS (69%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (69%); LITIGATION (65%); SUITS & CLAIMS (64%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); RALPH NADER (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 1998



250 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 11, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1263 words

HEADLINE: House G.O.P. Content to Make Ripples

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 10

 BODY:
Three years after sweeping into office on their Contract With America, House Republicans are acting as if they now have a contract with their campaign consultants: to keep the revolution on hold.
In this election year, the House leadership has scheduled a mere 89 days when votes will be taken. And the Republicans, who once yearned to abolish whole Federal departments, are whiling away much of their time with the same kind of small-scale gestures and symbolic actions that President Clinton deployed in his re-election campaign. 
 So they have passed legislation to rename Washington National Airport for Ronald Reagan and moved to ban possession of machines that clone cell phone signals and to make it a Federal offense to cross a state border to intimidate a witness in a state criminal case. They have approved nonbinding resolutions, such as one proclaiming that Congress will not discriminate against stay-at-home moms.
The most radical idea on the horizon is an overhaul of the tax code. But for campaign purposes, the Republicans are working to stir up public opposition to the tax system without actually planning to bring a new code up for a vote this year.
All of this represents a strategic decision. Republican leaders believe their party will do best in the coming campaign by running on last summer's balanced budget agreement, adding some grace notes on education, crime and tax cuts and, most important, doing nothing to alarm the public.
"For the most part, this is going to be a year of don't make any waves," said Rich Galen, executive director of Gopac, the Republican political action committee. "Let's see what happens with the President and get out early and campaign hard at the end."
Even Newt Gingrich, the House Speaker, has become noticeably cautious. At news conferences the once freewheeling House Speaker has taken to checking his behavior with his press secretary, Christina Martin. He often catches her eye when he has delivered a well-crafted phrase or gives her a wary glance when he has failed to muzzle his biting humor.
He avoids some topics altogether. Asked about President Clinton and Monica S. Lewinsky recently, he said, "I have no comment at all on that entire zone."
Some of the combative conservatives who went to Washington to remake it are starting to complain about a lack of will. Representative David M. McIntosh of Indiana told House Republican leaders recently that when Congress is in town, "we want real things on the agenda." He said the party leaders replied, "You need to spend more time at home."
On the other side of the aisle, Representative Barney Frank, a Massachusetts Democrat, has taken to joking that Congress has given up legislating for Lent.
Underlying the Republican strategy is the fact that in sharp contrast to the anti-Washington fury that shaped the 1992 and 1994 elections, pollsters this year are finding voters content with the booming economy, optimistic about the nation's future and with no dominant problem on their minds.
"The voters are not angry about anything," said Charles Cook, who puts out a nonpartisan political newsletter, The Cook Political Report.
Public approval of Congress is up and even Mr. Gingrich's approval ratings are inching higher. An internal poll by the Republican National Committee that is circulating among Congressional Republicans shows that in February Congress's own approval ratings reached an extraordinary high of 68 percent.
What all that means is that unless some new crisis rocks public life, it will be a good year for incumbents and a good year for the Republicans to hold on to their majority.
"I think the political decision has been made -- and it might be right -- that Congress right now is held in high regard," said Representative Peter T. King, a Long Island Republican, "that we've gotten the job done. We're a check on Clinton. He's a check on us, and the American people seem satisfied. The Republican leadership has made a decision not to upset that balance and equilibrium."
The question is whether rank-and-file party members and particularly those on the Republicans' conservative flank will follow the script.
For underneath the surface calm simmer profound Republican disagreements over the new fiscal era of budget surpluses, and how far to go in tax cutting and overhaul of the tax code. The Republicans in Congress are splintered over what to do about issues like tobacco and health care. And they are divided, too, over how hard to push a conservative social agenda.
The talk show host Rush Limbaugh recently complained on Fox television that it was getting harder to tell Mr. Clinton and the Republicans apart. And some Republicans are worried that they are not doing enough to energize their core supporters in November.
"A basketball team that tries not to lose invariably loses," said Representative Lindsey Graham, a Republican from South Carolina and a member of the landslide House class of '94.
A short Congressional session provides less time, however, for dissatisfied legislators to create waves like last year's abortive coup against Mr. Gingrich. And the leaders hope votes on such conservative issues as school vouchers or a planned attempt to override Mr. Clinton's veto of a ban on a form of abortion will be enough to placate those on the right.
Perhaps the greatest test of the leaders' ability to hold the party together will come as the House and Senate try to draft a new budget.
The party leaders want a plan that will provide enough new tax cuts to keep the party's imprint on the issue yet not go overboard and raise questions about whether Republicans are risking the fiscal stability they helped bring about.
One small group of Senators and Congressmen blasted their party at a news conference recently for missing an opportunity to push for further tax cutting. Senator John Ashcroft, a Missouri Republican, called for $600 billion to $1 trillion in tax cuts. Mr. McIntosh, who was at Mr. Ashcroft's side to complain of "the incredible shrinking leadership" in the party, said, "Our goal is to send a clear message to the leadership: We want tax cuts now."
Perhaps the most ambitious Republican idea on the horizon is radical revision of the tax code. Party leaders have been rousing their core voters and attempting to stir up new anti-Government fervor by touring the country debating the merits of a flat tax or a national sales tax.
Yet while the issue gives the party an election-year rallying cry, House and Senate leaders do not plan to take up any overhaul measures this year. Instead they plan a vote on legislation to have the tax code expire by Dec. 31, 2001, and trap the Democrats into defending the code.
As frustrating as the inactivity is for House conservatives, it is worse for Democrats, who are trying to win back control of the House, and need a net gain of 11 seats to do it. Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the House minority leader, has denounced "a do-nothing Congress" and a Republican Party "frozen in the ice of their special interests."
But that line of argument only goes so far as a campaign theme. As a minority party, the Democrats do not expect to pass much legislation this year. But they do need opportunities to win the war for public opinion. And it is harder to showcase their differences with the Republicans if debates showing the contrast between the two parties on issues like the tobacco settlement, or restraints on heath maintenance organizations or expansion of Medicare never take place on the House floor.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (86%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (86%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTION LAW (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); APPROVALS (75%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); TAX RELIEF (72%); BUDGETS (72%); WITNESSES (69%); TAX REFORM (67%); PRESS CONFERENCES (62%); AIRPORTS (55%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (54%); 

PERSON: MITCHELL, ALISON; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); BARNEY FRANK (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 1998



251 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 11, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1585 words

HEADLINE: Man With Past Speculates on Future;
Without Renters in Place, Macklowe Plans a Manhattan Office Tower

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
Two weeks after wrestling away a property on Madison Avenue near 42d Street from a pack of rival developers, Harry Macklowe was on his knees, poring over sketches for a new skyscraper.
He was thinking big. It would have a million square feet of space, he said last week as he unfurled maps and drawings in his office on 57th Street. It would cost $400 million. It would have a landscaped garden on the 10th floor. With an eye toward the newly electrified street life in Times Square, Mr. Macklowe said he would put the elevators behind glass walls, so that their up and down dance could be seen from the street. 
 Mr. Macklowe, the developer whom tenant activists love to hate, is back. His company, which became infamous in 1985 for tearing down two single-room-occupancy hotels in the middle of the night, had financial troubles in 1994 that forced him to shed his namesake hotel. Last summer, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and others criticized him for evicting tenants on the Upper East Side. And just a few months ago, one of his recent purchases rained bricks on Madison Avenue, forcing the street to be closed.
But now, he is building a 300-unit apartment house at Eighth Avenue and 50th Street and demolishing buildings at 53d Street and Second Avenue to make way for another apartment building. And he has hired Lehman Brothers to advise him on a possible initial public offering this summer for his company, which owns $1.5 billion worth of Manhattan properties.
Sure, a downturn in the economy could suck all the air out of the current real estate boom. But Mr. Macklowe is planning to build a new skyscraper at Madison and 42d Street that could put him back in the pantheon of New York developers. Still, it is risky because it would be the first speculative office building of the 1990's: built before anyone has expressed interest in renting there.
"It's the pre-eminent development site in the city," Mr. Macklowe said with a soft purr that belied his reputation as a fierce negotiator. "We feel a speculative building will meet with great success. We want to move forward because the market is now."
Mr. Macklowe also wants in on other deals. "He's been the high bid on more than six different transactions at the same time," said Peter Hauspurg, the chairman of Eastern Consolidated Properties. "He will take some big risks, and he goes after things in an aggressive, creative manner."
It adds up. Mr. Macklowe, 60, threw a party last night for 80 brokers, investment bankers and lawyers at Sammy's Romanian Steak House, a restaurant on the Lower East Side known for Jewish soul food and bad music, to celebrate the completion of $500 million in acquisitions and mortgage refinancings.
Half a billion dollars is not half bad for a son of a garment executive from Westchester. Mr. Macklowe dropped out of the University of Alabama, New York University and the School of Visual Arts before throwing himself into business in the 1960's.
He moved quickly from broker to builder, developing a keen interest in architecture and modern art that is reflected in his sleek modernistic buildings like Metropolitan Tower and his starkly white minimalist offices.
Mr. Macklowe's friends say his fiercely combative and obsessive nature plays out in both business and in sports. He took up golf and was on the links every day until he dropped it in favor of tennis. Now his vacation plans are stitched around tennis courts. But his personality is best expressed in sailing, they say. He owns a sleek, 70-foot custom racing sloop called the Unfurled.
And he wants to race. "It's typical of Harry, because he's so competitive," said Morton J. Schrader, a real estate broker and fellow sailor who has known Mr. Macklowe for longer than 30 years. "If he's sailing in the bay, he's looking for someone to face off with. He's always in the hunt."
His killer instinct was in evidence most recently in his pursuit of the Madison Avenue site. Last July, when he learned that Vornado Realty Trust was interested in the site, Mr. Macklowe quickly bought the mortgage after an all-night bargaining session. Then in February, he outmaneuvered both developer George Klein and the Amrock investment fund in bankruptcy court and took control of the properties.
In his own backyard, he has been in a three-year border war with Martha Stewart, the matriarch of style, whose waterfront mansion sits across from his on Georgica Pond in East Hampton. The two have spent tens of thousands of dollars in legal fees squabbling over the shrubs and bushes that separate their properties.
And when Mr. Macklowe began clearing a building site at Second Avenue and 53d Street last summer, people began to reopen old wounds. Mr. Giuliani accused Mr. Macklowe of taking unfair advantage of a change in the state's new rent laws that allowed him to evict 13 rent-controlled tenants, including an 82-year-old blind man who said his removal would be the equivalent of a death sentence.
"If you can think of anyone with a bad history of abusing his position as a landlord and a developer, it's Harry Macklowe," Mr. Giuliani said last June.
Even today Mr. Macklowe bristles at what he describes as the Mayor's politically irresponsible attack. He said he was merely the "windfall beneficiary" of a change in the rent laws. He will build around the few tenants who remain, though he said he expects the tenants "will shake us down for a considerable amount of money" and agree to leave.
More exasperating for Mr. Macklowe was the fact that the Mayor's attack prompted another round of articles about his association with the illegal, midnight demolition of two single-room-occupancy hotels on 44th Street in Times Square in 1985. His clashes with tenants and others had not been unusual compared with those of Donald Trump, Peter Kalikow and Leona Helmsley. But with the demolition, Mr. Macklowe came to epitomize the rapacious developer in the minds of many New Yorkers.
Without turning off the gas or electricity or obtaining permits, a contractor ripped down the two S.R.O.'s owned by Mr. Macklowe only days before a city moratorium would have blocked it. Mr. Macklowe was not indicted in the incident, but one of his executives pleaded guilty to misdemeanor charges. The developer did pay the city $2 million to settle a civil suit and seethed as Mayor Edward I. Koch returned his $10,000 campaign contribution. Years later, Mr. Macklowe built the Hotel Macklowe on the site of the old hotels.
"I've done everything right except the hotel, and even then I didn't do anything wrong," he said. "The people who were indicted and convicted were at fault. It happened on my watch so I have to accept responsibility, but I personally was judged to have clean hands."
Stephen B. Siegel, the president of the Insignia/ESG Company, says that his friend is "shrewd and aggressive, absolutely, but I wouldn't characterize him as ruthless."
Mr. Macklowe is intimately involved in every detail of his projects, from the choice of china at the hotel to the art in the lobbies.
"Harry has been intimately involved in everything we've done," said T. J. Gottesdiener, the managing partner of Skidmore, Owings & Merrill who is designing the building at Madison and 42d Street. "He's very interested in the art of architecture, in the concept behind the design. The project is in its infancy, but I'm sure he will drive us crazy."
In the 1980's, Mr. Macklowe put up a quick succession of buildings, from Grand Central Tower to residential buildings like Rivertower, where he and his wife Linda have a duplex.
Mr. Macklowe was still buying properties in 1992 when Larry Silverstein, David Solomon and other developers ran into financial trouble. But two years later, Mr. Macklowe squared off with his lenders when he fell into default over $100 million in loans. He was pushed to sell several properties, including one of his most prized, the hotel. Hotel Macklowe became the Millennium Broadway.
"He loved that hotel," said Mr. Schrader, a fellow sailor and a friend of Mr. Macklowe's for 25 years. "He put his heart and soul into it. He never really looked me in the eye and said, 'I lost it.' He gets very attached about anything he puts his hand to."
It was not until 1996, when the New York real estate market began heating up, that Mr. Macklowe found new financial partners and resurfaced. He converted a loft building on Seventh Avenue into a luxury apartment house called Chelsea Atelier. He bought a tired-looking office building at 540 Madison in 1996 for $35 million, a price that even his banker thought was too high. Mr. Macklowe quickly renovated the building, installing more windows in the offices and expanding the retail space on a valuable stretch of Madison Avenue.
It looked like a huge success story until Dec. 7, when a section of the brick facade on the south side of the building crashed to the street, closing traffic on Madison Avenue for weeks. The city's building officials blamed the accident on shoddy workmanship when it was built in 1970.
Mr. Macklowe ruefully acknowledges that "trouble has a way of finding me." Though the repairs are costing about $5 million, he has been able to sign a new retail tenant for a remarkable $250 a square foot.
"We have made money with him," said William Adamski, co-director of the real estate group at Credit Suisse First Boston, which has backed many of Mr. Macklowe's deals in recent years. "This has been an extremely profitable relationship."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Harry Macklowe plans to build a $400 million office tower on Madison Avenue near 42d Street. Mr. Macklowe in his office. (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: LEH (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: MACKLOWE ORGANIZATION; LEHMAN BROTHERS LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: MACKLOWE ORGANIZATION; LEHMAN BROTHERS

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS; HOUSING COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); CITY LIFE (75%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (74%); RESTAURANTS (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); MULTIFAMILY MORTGAGES (71%); EVICTION (69%); INVESTMENT BANKING (69%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (69%); OFFICE & WAREHOUSE CONSTRUCTION (68%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (64%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (50%); 

PERSON: BAGLI, CHARLES V; MACKLOWE, HARRY RUDY GIULIANI (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 1998



252 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 11, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 898 words

HEADLINE: At Pivotal Time, Suharto Gets a 7th Term

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS 

DATELINE: JAKARTA, Indonesia, Wednesday, March 11

 BODY:
With shouts of "Agree! Agree!" electoral delegates leapt from their seats on Tuesday and acclaimed President Suharto as their leader for a seventh term, after 32 years of near-absolute power here in the world's fourth-most-populous nation.
This morning, the President took his oath of office, calling on Indonesians to pull together in this time of hardship. 
 "We will never enjoy again an economic growth such as we have experienced for more than the past quarter of a century," Mr. Suharto said in a speech immediately after reciting the oath.
"As an individual, as a group, some of us may lead an affluent life," he added. "But as a nation, we can no longer afford to lead an extravagant life."
His carefully scripted re-election was unanimous, without even a murmur of dissent in the 1,000-member People's Consultative Assembly. But it comes at Mr. Suharto's moment of greatest crisis as the dramatic economic accomplishments of his presidency slip away under the pressure of Asia's economic slump.
Since the crisis hit hard in January, Mr. Suharto, 76, has produced an impressive display of political control, cowing his critics into silence, choking off demonstrations and cementing the backing of the powerful military and of all three officially sanctioned parties.
But he has failed to come to grips with the economic crisis and is now locked in a confrontation with the International Monetary Fund, which is demanding that he dismantle Indonesia's system of monopolies and favoritism in return for a $40 billion rescue package.
Though Thailand and South Korea have embraced the I.M.F. formula in return for billions of dollars in assistance, the fund's director general, Michel Camdessus, said on Monday, "We are not there yet by far in Indonesia."
Torn between a desire to force President Suharto to stick to its plan and fear of political instability and human suffering if it cuts off financial assistance, the I.M.F. expressed a willingness to be flexible, up to a point.
Last week the I.M.F. announced that it was delaying its second $3 billion disbursement of funds because of the slow pace of reforms, and Indonesian officials reacted with pugnacious nationalism.
Much to the annoyance of the United States and the I.M.F., President Suharto is continuing to float the idea of instituting what is known as a currency board, which would artificially raise the value of the Indonesian rupiah, a move that the I.M.F. has opposed. This possibility has slowed the deterioration in the value of the rupiah against the dollar.
In Washington, Stanley Fischer, the I.M.F.'s first deputy managing director, said at a news conference on Tuesday that the organization always looks at changing circumstances in deciding whether its programs need to be modified, and would probably do so in Indonesia.
In particular, Mr. Fischer said, the fund was "deeply mindful" of the "potentially tragic consequences of events now taking place in Indonesia" and would change its program if people were in danger of going hungry. But Mr. Fischer gave no indication that the fund was prepared to change its basic approach. And he said Indonesia needed to take tough action before he could realistically consider linking its currency to the dollar.
One of the President's sons, Bambang Trihatmodjo, asserted on Tuesday that Indonesia would go it alone rather than submit to foreign dictate. "If necessary, we can rebuild from ground zero," he said. The statement captured the grim mood on what should have been a day of triumph for Asia's longest-serving leader.
The President enters his new term facing a bleak economy not unlike the one he inherited in 1965 from his predecessor, Sukarno, with both inflation and unemployment soaring and with growing fears of food shortages and social unrest.
Mr. Suharto, then a little-known general, came to power after suppressing a coup attempt, apparently by Communists, which was followed by massacres that took as many as 500,000 lives.
The son of poor farmers, he provided schools, health care, roads and electricity to even the most remote areas of the archipelago. In addition, he secured decades of stability through a system of top-down military control and tight limits on press freedom and political activity.
But Indonesia's steady economic growth of 7 percent a year has collapsed into expectations of a deep recession. Mr. Suharto's associates say he is determined to conquer this final, greatest challenge of his presidency.
"He told us that he was already older than the Prophet Mohammed," a member of the electoral assembly said, "but that with a fighting spirit and adherence to the Indonesian soldiers' oath he was prepared to devote his soul, not to mention his possessions, to the country."
Mr. Suharto's possessions are an issue for his critics, who say the fortune amassed by the President and his six children amounts to $30 billion. One analysis of his reluctance to work with the I.M.F. is that he is seeking to protect this wealth.
Despite Mr. Suharto's uncontested re-election, there is a spreading sense among the middle class that the time has come for a change. "In our hearts, we know Suharto has to be replaced," Abdurrahman Wahid, the country's most influential Muslim leader, said in January. "But the problem is, there is a difference between our idealism and the reality of the situation."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Under an outstretched Koran, President Suharto of Indonesia took an oath of office yesterday for a seventh time. In an address, he then warned Indonesians that "we can no longer afford to lead an extravagant life." (Associated Press)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: INDONESIA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%); THAILAND (75%); 

CITY: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (57%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (82%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (82%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDONESIA; INDONESIA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%); THAILAND (75%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (57%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CREDIT; FOREIGN AID INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); TRENDS (71%); CURRENCIES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); PRESS CONFERENCES (60%); 

PERSON: MYDANS, SETH; SUHARTO (PRES) MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 1998



253 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 11, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1233 words

HEADLINE: It's a Control Thing: Vermont vs. Cell Phone Towers

BYLINE: By CAREY GOLDBERG 

DATELINE: HARDWICK, Vt., March 9

 BODY:
As new towers for cellular phone traffic have cropped up by the thousands from coast to coast, so have the spats, the lawsuits and the local rebellions, from California to New Jersey to Florida.
But Vermont, with its sylvan sensibilities, is mounting an anti-tower offensive unlike any other these days, making itself the new national focal point for what until now has been a scattered guerrilla war. 
 "I don't want Vermont turned into a giant pincushion with 200-foot towers sticking out of every mountain and valley," declared the state's Democratic United States Senator, Patrick J. Leahy. "We're not asking that Vermont be left out of the telecommunications age. But we Vermonters want to be able to determine where the towers are located."
So hot is the tower issue in Vermont that Mr. Leahy and two Congressional colleagues, Senator James M. Jeffords, a Republican, and Representative Bernard Sanders, an independent, held a meeting today to discuss it in this North Country hamlet, where a 150-foot tower is planned for the top of Buffalo Mountain. Their special guest was William Kennard, the new chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, who traveled the state's muddy roads to hear Vermonters' concerns.
What Mr. Kennard heard was plaints that cell-phone towers ruin the scenery and reduce property values -- mixed with expressions of appreciation for the brave new wireless world.
That compote was the kind of jumble of opinions that has troubled hundreds of American towns like Hardwick in recent months as they contemplated their part in the construction of more than 100,000 antenna sites by 2005, more than a tenth of them requiring towers.
"It's a stark clash that is upon us," Mr. Kennard told the 200 or so Vermonters gathered in a high school auditorium.
The essence of the issue is that age-old political flash point, local control.
Congress decreed in 1996 that it was in the national interest to create a "seamless network" of cellular communications across the country, and few people in this nation of about 56 million cell phone users would object to that concept.
To make sure that this seamless network was created, Congress also decreed in effect that though local governments could exercise their usual zoning powers in deciding where towers went and how tall they were, they could not simply say no to cellular phone companies that wanted to put towers in their cities or towns. If localities resisted unreasonably, the Federal Telecommunications Act of 1996 said, the Federal Government could override them.
Around the country, scores of local groups have banded together to fight particular towers planned for particular spots. As tracked on a Cellular Tower Coalition Web site, they range from residents in North Barrington, Ill., trying to stop a 200-foot tower on their village hall to a Boca Raton, Fla., group fighting towers on school property. More than 600 towns have put moratoriums on new tower sitings at some point, cellular industry groups say, and some of the bans have lasted as long as two years.
But Vermont, its officials say, is leading the charge in the national political arena for local control over tower decisions.
Mr. Leahy, Mr. Jeffords and Mr. Sanders have combined forces to push bills in Congress that would restore full local control over tower-siting decisions. All three are vehement in their assertions that Vermont, with its love for its green hills and its New Englandy independent spirit, should be sovereign over its towers. And they have many allies in the populace.
"None of us are anti-technology," said Holly Fournier, an investment adviser who has been fighting for years to have a tower taken down in her Vermont town of Charlotte. "We just want to make sure the towers are appropriately sited."
But even in Vermont, the Hardwick discussion showed, opinions are deeply split. Most everybody likes the convenience and life-saving potential of cell phones. But they do not trust cellular phone giants backed by Federal clout.
"The natural landscapes of Vermont are our greatest economic resource," said Janet Newton, a resident of the Thistle Hill area of Cabot, which has been fighting a proposed cell tower. "We Vermonters claim the right to make land-use and quality of life decisions at the state and local level."
One resident said a study had shown that property values would drop 25 percent near a cell tower; several others commented that the long-term health effects of living near microwave-emitting towers were not yet known.
On the other side were residents who wanted to be able to dial 911 from anywhere, and those like Deb Moore, an emergency room nurse, who described how important it was to be able to sustain contact between an ambulance crew and the hospital preparing to treat its patient.
It is a problem in Vermont, "as wonderfully rural as it is, to hit a dead zone," Ms. Moore said. "We need to look at other issues for Vermont besides aesthetics and your property values."
Debate over tower siting has been heating up in recent months in part as a result of the 1996 Federal Telecommunications Act, which fostered telephone-industry competition and allowed many new players into the cellular phone market -- players who need towers. The rash of antenna building also stems from the swelling pool of cellular phone users, and from the advent of technology known as P.C.S., or personal communications systems. P.C.S. systems use digital transmissions rather than analog ones and need more antennas because their range is shorter.
Over all, said Tim Ayers, vice president for communications of the Cellular Telecommunications Industry Association, the largest association representing the wireless industry, it will take up to 125,000 antennas to build the cellular system authorized by the F.C.C., and the process will take until perhaps 2005.
The antennas are often easy to install in cities, where they can be stuck on existing tall buildings, steeples and roofs; in largely rural areas like Vermont, towers are often needed.
The cellular companies face pressures of their own, Mr. Ayers pointed out. To keep their licenses, he said, they must be able to say they are serving a substantial part of the population. They must also worry about paying off the cost of their licenses, which they got through Government auction.
To Vermonters, however, it can seem as if their towns are being invaded by corporate giants with only a bottom line in mind.
Some towns rush to pass ordinances limiting the towers' height and possible location. Others declare a tower-building moratorium to figure out what to do. But then they run the risk of legal challenges by the impatient cellular phone companies, and it is the law, as well as money, that cellular corporations have on their side. Court cases have generally been decided in favor of the cellular companies because the 1996 law so clearly states that they may not be turned down, Mr. Ayers said.
Ultimately, Mr. Kennard and others say, there will be solutions for all of this.
There are compromises gaining wider practice, from disguising towers as trees or steeples to agreements that allow several phone companies to "co-locate" on one tower, reducing the number of towers needed.
"This is not an intractable problem," Mr. Kennard told the gathered Vermonters, without specifying plans to solve it.

CORRECTION-DATE: June 18, 1998, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on March 11 about a fight against cellular telephone towers in Vermont referred incompletely to a structure in the town of Charlotte. While the tower now includes a cellular antenna, it was built as a radio tower and also supports a radio antenna and an antenna for the local fire and rescue station. A cellular industry group reported the omission to The Times in March, but its request for a correction went astray through an editing lapse.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Some residents of Charlotte, Vt., want this cell phone tower removed. Among the concerns are levels of microwave emissions. (Photographs by Paul Boisvert for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

LEGISLATION: 104 P.L. 104 TELECOMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1996 (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: VERMONT, USA (95%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (59%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: COAST-TO-COAST COMMUNICATIONS INC (91%); COAST-TO-COAST FINANCIAL CORP (91%); COAST-TO-COAST ANALYTICAL SERVICES INC (91%); COAST-TO-COAST BUILDING PRODUCTS INC (91%); COAST-TO-COAST CONSULTING INC (91%); COAST-TO-COAST SEAFOOD INC (91%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (55%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (55%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT; UNITED STATES; ; UNITED STATES (95%); VERMONT, USA (95%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (59%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; CELLULAR TELEPHONES; ANTENNAS; LAW AND LEGISLATION MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (92%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (88%); LEGISLATION (87%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (74%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (74%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); 

PERSON: GOLDBERG, CAREY; LEAHY, PATRICK J (SEN); JEFFORDS, JAMES M (SEN); SANDERS, BERNIE (REPR) BERNIE SANDERS (77%); PATRICK LEAHY (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 1998



254 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 12, 1998

SECTION: Section G; Page 1; Column 1; Circuits 

LENGTH: 2489 words

HEADLINE: Where Do Computers Go When They Die?;
Into the Attic, Under the Ping-Pong Table -- but Hardly Ever Into the Trash

BYLINE: By CAREY GOLDBERG 

 BODY:
IF Americans treated dead people the way they treat dead computers, their basements and closets would be cluttered with family corpses. Under many a desk, there would be a cadaver crammed into the arch meant for knees. Whole warehouses and offices would function as ad hoc mausoleums.
And only the diligent few, whether out of conscience or lack of space, would dispose of the departed properly. The rest, unable to let go or to find a proper resting place, would offer excuses like, "He cost me so much money in life. I can't accept that he's worthless now!" and, "She was a formative influence in my youth. How can I dump her?" 
 Of course, it makes about as much sense to do nothing with antiquated computers as it did for the eccentric family in John Irving's "Hotel New Hampshire" to stuff their dead little dog and keep him around the house long after his barking and fetching days were past.
Yet researchers believe that roughly 14 million to 20 million computers are retired each year in this country, and of those, a 1995 Tufts University thesis estimated, nearly 75 percent are simply stockpiled, taking their place on obscure shelves, under Ping-Pong tables, in unused offices, in hallways. Only 10 percent to 15 percent of them will be re-used or recycled, studies indicated, and 15 percent end up in landfills.
True, those numbers are changing, say many involved in the burgeoning businesses of giving old computers new life. In the last few years, thousands of computer reselling and recycling outfits have cropped up around the country, a recent Rand Corporation report said.
And the stream those resellers and recyclers depend on -- of functional but dull-edged castoffs -- has swollen as the typical active life span of a new computer in its original work setting has shrunk to as little as two or three years.
The companies that funnel older computers to schools and to the technologically needy have been multiplying and are becoming an increasingly national phenomenon, spurred by new tax incentives and the sheer volume of discards.
Whole directories on the Internet list groups that take old computers. One of the largest such funnelers, the Detwiler Foundation, based in San Diego, has already placed 37,000 computers in California schools and is branching out into at least nine other states. The Federal Government is running a program, Computers for Learning, to place hundreds of thousands of old Government computers in schools.
"When you're flushing a million computers out every year, they disappear like ink into blotting paper," said Clive Smith, chief executive officer of New Deal, a Cambridge, Mass., company specializing in software that lets older computers act like newer ones. "When you're flushing 10 million a year, the market mechanisms have to emerge to deal with it."
And emerging they are. But the juiciest mystery inherent in "closetware," as some call the squirreled-away old computers, is why it has taken so long, and why, even now, so few older computers are promptly resold or donated.
Certainly, those in the business say, owners' emotional attachment to old computers plays a role. At the East West Education Development Foundation, a Boston nonprofit company that refurbishes and supplies old computers to good causes, the president, Stephen Farrell, said that for donors who bring in their obsolete machines, "it's like bringing your dog to be euthanized -- it's really hard to part with."
Brigitte Jordan, a corporate anthropologist and principal scientist at Xerox's research center in Palo Alto, Calif., speculated that owners' attachments to their computers went beyond even the powerful attachments they can form to their cars, in part because computers are so much more interactive and in part because the machines can become repositories of parts of their owners' lives.
Of her own first computer, Ms. Jordan said: "It had not only my work on it but my poems and stories on it. It had on it a sort of snapshot of my life at that time, and when I got a new machine, not all of that got transferred. Somehow, in the transition from one machine to another, some piece of my life got lost. It's like losing a photo album."
Personal attachments to personal computers are one thing; professional ones are another. Love of machine can be so great that operators of early computers, like the room-size Univac, have been known to take them home when they were decommissioned, said Oliver Strimpel, director of the Computer Museum in Boston.
At the museum's Silicon Valley historical collection in Mountain View, Calif., he said, "I've seen people hugging disk drives and computers like long-lost friends they've spent big parts of their lives with."
Also seemingly at work in owners' clinging to their computers is a certain inability to accept the harsh economic reality of computer depreciation -- the fact that a machine that cost $3,000 just four years ago is now worth less than $100.
In 1991, H. Scott Matthews, then an undergraduate student at Carnegie Mellon University, helped produce a study that predicted that by 2005, 150 million computers would be cluttering the country's landfills. Last year, Mr. Matthews returned to the much-quoted study, re-evaluated its predictions based on updated figures and lowered that projection, to 55 million.
He and his co-authors cited the "second life" given computers by newly established markets for recycled electronic goods as a central reason for the revised estimate. But the biggest reason for the change, he said, was something else: "I think the fundamental behavioral issue we did not consider in the first paper, that we do now, is that people don't want to throw away anything that they think has value. If you have something you paid a couple of thousand of dollars for, you're going to have a hard time throwing it away, even if you don't use it anymore."
Especially if it still works fine. But aren't Americans supposed to be experts at throwing things away?
"This is the opposite of the disposable society," said Mr. Matthews, now a doctoral candidate in economics at Carnegie Mellon's Green Design Initiative. "This is the attic society."
Robert Dangelmeyer, a service manager for the Digital Equipment Corporation, said that according to four computer-price databases he had examined, computers tended to lose 80 percent of their market value in the first year after purchase. Then their worth levels out for a year or so, he said, before plunging practically to zero.
That hurts both individuals and institutions or businesses. In 1993, said Kenneth D. Campbell, a spokesman for the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, the university bought a supercomputer for its Laboratory for Computer Science that at that point was the 17th-most-powerful computer in the world. It cost $3.8 million.
When the computer, the CM5, was shut down four years later, still the 497th-most-powerful computer in the world, he said, the best offer the university could get for it was $750. It decided to donate it to the Computer Museum instead.
Museums and collectors, however, generally seek only rare and historically valuable computers. Dr. Strimpel, of the Computer Museum, said that any machine produced before 1960 was generally worth preserving; some from the 1960's, like the I.B.M. System 360 series, are and some aren't. From TRS-80's on up, there is usually little collecting interest in garden-variety computers.
That means most of the tens of millions of computers in America that have been retired from their primary functions have no obvious monetary value.
Some creative types come up with novel uses for their old machines. Clifford Stoll, a notoriously skeptical computer commentator, turned his Mac Plus into a Macquarium, using plans posted on the Internet, and used a gutted 286 computer as a cat litter box for a couple of years.
"It was flat, squat, pancake-shaped -- it worked well," Mr. Stoll said. "But it got too stinky after a while, and it was cheaper to toss it out than clean it. A 286 computer costs about the same as a kitty-litter box anyway -- about $5. My cats liked it, though."
Whimsy aside, there do seem to be sensible answers to the riddle of what to do with an obsolete computer, economists and computer professionals say.
One answer for individual users decommissioning computers -- and for businesses -- is that whatever owners do, they should do quickly, said Mr. Dangelmeyer, of Digital, who has often encountered hallways full of computers at companies he has serviced.
"My perspective is, if it's in the hallway, you've already made a mistake," he said. "If it's in the hallway, now what do you do? People are ripping off memory boards, saying, this is junk, and I need an extra keyboard or a new mouse -- so all of a sudden, it's not a working system anymore; it's been cannibalized.
"So now you need labor at between $40 and $230 an hour for a skilled technician just to get them back in working order, and they're only worth $100 -- so you turned something worth something into a liability," he said. And there is the issue of further potential liability from sending a lot of computers, including lead-containing monitors, to the dump.
Rather, Mr. Dangelmeyer recommended, computer buyers should pack up their old computers in the boxes that come from the new ones and have a technician certify that they are in good working order. Then they can either be sold to used-computer dealers or recyclers or given to an organization like East West.
Only a handful of areas around the country -- including Somerville, Mass., and Hennepin County, Minn., home to Minneapolis -- have special recycling programs for computers, said Dawn Amore, senior program leader at the National Safety Council's Environmental Health Center, which has a program to foster computer re-use and recycling. But more are exploring the idea, she said, and computer manufacturers, too, are exploring ways to design computers so they are easier to re-use and recycle. Many also accept their old computers back from buyers for recycling, notably I.B.M., which also has a program in environmentally friendly design.
But economically,recycling is still of limited appeal.
"There's no economic incentive to empty out the closet," said Joe Pucciarelli, research director for the Gartner Group. "Computers sell for 3 1/2 cents a pound for mixed electronics, and it costs more money to drive it to the recycler than it's worth."
Indeed, at the Electronic Product Recovery and Recycling Conference last year, run by the National Safety Council, participants noted that a typical 386-based computer had a resale value of $10 to $20, a component value of $5 and a zero net value for plastics and glass.
But there can still be life in them there silicon-based bones, and good-deed points for those who pass them on.
Mr. Smith, of New Deal, offered this simple arithmetic: There are fewer than 7 million computers in American schools for a total of 51 million students. Analysts say there are 33 million older 286 and 386 computers around, not to mention millions of 486's that many people are now discarding in favor of Pentium machines.
If most people donated their older computers -- and schools could be convinced that with souped-up, point-and-click software, they were more than adequate for teaching computer literacy, Internet browsing and school subjects -- the United States could approach a one-to-one student-computer ratio much faster, he said.
"And there are 14 million kids in 8 million households below the poverty line," Mr. Smith said. "Do you think they're going to get a trickle-down Pentium any time soon?"
 
If You Can Bring Yourself to Part With It...
 
Giving It Away
 If you have decided to donate your old computer, here are some pointers:
Some schools and organizations will not accept anything older than a 486-based machine, but many will.
 The sooner you donate it, the more value it will hold for the recipient -- and, though admittedly piddling in any case, the greater your tax write-off.
The Taxpayer Relief Act of 1997 took effect in January and gives special tax breaks to companies that donate personal computers less than two years old to schools. For all tax implications, check with your accountant.
These Web site lists groups by state that arrange computer donations to schools and nonprofit organizations:
www.microweb.com/pepsite/Recycle/
recycleindex.html and www.learner.org/ sami/computer-recycle.shtml
On paper, the Institute for Local Self-Reliance in Washington, (202) 232-4108, or in Minneapolis, (612) 379-3815, has a far-reaching list of recyclers and re-users in the back of its 1997 report, "Plug Into Electronics Re-use," by Brenda Platt and Jennifer Hyde.
Also possibly helpful:
The participant list from the first Electronic Product Recovery and Recycling Conference:
www.nsc.org/ehc/epr2/epr2part.htm
The Federal Government's Computers for Learning Home Page:
www.computers.fed.gov
Many Goodwill stores will take computer donations, officials say.
 
Selling It
You'd rather sell it? You may be shocked at how little it will pay you to do so. If you want to do it, here are some tips:
On-line auction houses like ebay.com and www.onsale.com allow you to solicit bids on items like hardware and software.
Exchanges ease the match between buyer and seller. The seller ships the computer to the exchange, the exchange makes sure it works, and the buyer sends in the money:
The Online Exchange (the United Computer Exchange): www.uce.com/exchange
Advantage Computer Exchange: www.computerpricing.com/selling.html
American Computer Exchange (publishes the AmCoEx Index of Used Computer Prices): www.amcoex.com
Yahoo's Internet Directory has a large collection of places that will buy used computers or help you find a buyer:
www.yahoo.com/businessand
economy/companies/computers/retailers/ used/index.html
The Used Computer Mall offers free on-line classifieds and other features:
www.usedcomputer.com
Affiliated Remarketing Web Inc. tracks down refurbished computer products from 185 dealers. Type in the equipment you want, and it gives a list of dealers who have it: www.remarketing.com
Of course, plenty of local stores buy used computers, and there are no shipping charges. Computer Renaissance is a chain of 187 stores in 44 states: www.cr1.com
Leasing a computer works for some people. A lease means you don't have to worry about getting rid of it when you're done: Just turn it in.
 
Wipe It Before You Dump It
If you are worried about leaving privateinformation on a computer, don't forget: reformatting the hard drive won't erase all the data. People who want to insure that there's absolutely nothing left should try a disk utility program designed to wipe clean the disk, programs available for sale or as free software or "shareware" on the web.

GRAPHIC: Photos: NOT A SCREEN SAVER -- This old Mac is a real fish tank, with real fish, built by Clifford Stoll, author of "Silicon Snake Oil." At left, less fortunate computers await meltdown. Below, Scott Cole of Boston with old mice. At right, computers stockpiled for reuse. (Peter DaSilva for The New York Times; Ed Quinn for The New York Times; Keith Myers/The New York Times)(pg. G1); At Tombarello Recycling in Lawrence, Mass., reusable computer parts are salvaged. What doesn't make the cut is melted for metal. (Keith Myers for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "10 Uses for a Dead Computer"
 
1. Fish tank. But it's a lot of work to make it waterproof.
2. Litter box. If your kitty isn't too picky.
3. Decoration. Chips and circuit boards can be made into earrings and clipboards.
4. Gold mine. Many 60's units used a fair amount of gold.
5. Furniture. Use it as doorstop or high-tech hassock.
6. Reincarnation. Use it to play old games or upgrade it to use as a backup device or personal Web server.
7. Planet saver. Recycle it and feel noble.
8. Source of cash. But not much. Sell it to a secondhand-computer shop.
9. Gift. If it's still breathing, donate it to a good cause or give it to a friend or relative.
10. Boat anchor.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: RAND CORP (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; INTERNET AND WORLD WIDE WEB; RECYCLING OF WASTE MATERIALS MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); LANDFILLS (76%); NETWORK SERVERS (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); INTERNET & WWW (60%); TAX INCENTIVES (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%); 

PERSON: GOLDBERG, CAREY CRAIG R SMITH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1998



255 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 12, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 574 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Amex and Nasdaq Reported To Be Discussing Merger
The American Stock Exchange and the National Association of Securities Dealers are discussing a combination that would give them enough heft to seriously challenge the giant New York Stock Exchange, according to several people close to the talks.
Details about the planned combination are sketchy, in part because they are still being worked out, and exchange members had not been fully informed last night. Page A1. 

Japan's Central Bank Raided
Prosecutors raided Japan's central bank and arrested Yasuyuki Yoshizawa, who runs its capital markets division. He was suspected of leaking secrets to Japanese banks. Within hours the governor of the Bank of Japan, Yasuo Matsushita, left, offered to resign. Credibility is critical to the central bank's monetary effectiveness. A1.
 
Judge Opposes Agreement
An administrative law judge in Manhattan said that an agreement between officials of the New York Mercantile Exchange and a Manhattan lawyer who was suing the exchange was "certainly unethical" and violated Federal regulations. D4.
 
Investors Continue a Buying Spree
Stock investors, apparently having overcome their anxiety about Asia and corporate earnings, went on another buying spree, sending the indexes farther into record territory. The Dow industrials rose 32.63 points, or four-tenths of 1 percent, to 8,675.75. That put the average up 9.8 percent for the year -- surpassing the 6 to 8 percent rise analysts had foreseen for the entire year. D7.
 
The World Bank priced its largest dollar-denominated global bond issue ever, $4 billion, and it was oversubscribed. It was priced to yield 5.703 percent for a bond due 2003. D7.
 
Europeans Irked Over Air Deals
The European Commission, seeking to negotiate as a bloc, warned eight European Union member countries that have open skies aviation deals with the United States that it would go to court against them if they did not shift within two months. D3.
 
Commercial aviation grew strongly last year, the F.A.A. said. Carriers had operating profits of $7.9 billion, up from $4.3 billion in 1996. It sees more growth this year. D4.
 
Who Invented the V-Chip?
The F.C.C. will formally approve the much-debated television rating codes today, and will issue technical standards for the microchip inside new television sets, known as a V-chip, that will let parents block programs with violence, sex or vulgar language from screens. Three competitors claim to have invented the chip. If one prevails it could mean millions of dollars in licensing fees, but it may be too late. D2.
 
Apple Hires Compaq Executive
Apple Computer named Timothy D. Cook, Compaq's No. 2 manufacturing executive, as its senior vice president for worldwide manufacturing operations. D4.
 
I.M.F. Financing at Issue
House Republican leaders threatened to hold hostage $18 billion for the I.M.F. and nearly $1 billion in back dues the United States owes the United Nations unless the White House agreed to an anti-abortion provision. The White House suggested that Mr. Clinton would not buckle to the demands. A10.
 
Suharto Calls for Belt-Tightening
President Suharto, taking his oath of office for a seventh five-year term, called on Indonesians to tighten their belts in response to the economic shock that has made almost all of Indonesia's 200 million people suddenly poorer. A8.

GRAPHIC: Photos.
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 8,675.75, up 32.63
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.94%, down 0.01
The Dollar -- 129.32 yen, up 1.85
 
Graph: "TODAY"
 
Retail Sales
 February figures due at 8:30 A.M. Eastern.
 Expected: +0.6%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (59%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (59%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (56%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: NYSE MKT LLC (59%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); BANK OF JAPAN (56%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (90%); FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (84%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (90%); FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (84%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); ASIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK EXCHANGES (93%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); MERGERS (90%); BONDS (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (76%); EUROPEAN UNION (76%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (76%); LITIGATION (75%); BOND MARKETS (75%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (74%); SUITS & CLAIMS (74%); AIRLINE ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (73%); ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGES (73%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (73%); ETHICS (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); CIVIL AVIATION (73%); JUDGES (73%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (72%); BOND ISSUES (72%); LAWYERS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); AGENCY ADJUDICATION (68%); COMPUTER CHIPS (65%); CONTENT RATINGS (65%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (64%); HOSTAGE TAKING (63%); 

PERSON: TIM COOK (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1998



256 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 12, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 11; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: Installation of E-Z Pass System on Turnpike and Parkway Is Expected to Take 2 Years

BYLINE: By JENNIFER PRESTON 

DATELINE: EAST BRUNSWICK, N.J., March 11

 BODY:
State transportation officials said today that the E-Z Pass toll system would be in operation on the Garden State Parkway and the New Jersey Turnpike in about two years. They said they would finance the system by fining motorists who speed through the tolls without paying.
The officials detailed their plan as they announced a $488 million, 10-year contract to install and operate the electronic toll collection system that will let motorists glide through the toll lanes on both highways and the Atlantic City Expressway. 
 The new E-Z Pass system in New Jersey will cost eight times more than the system now operating on New York City's bridges and tunnels. State officials said they would cover much of the cost by imposing $25 fines on motorists who try to cruise through E-Z Pass lanes without paying.
State officials said that cameras, set up at toll lanes, would photograph license plates of toll violators.
Some lawmakers say that transportation officials have set unrealistic goals for the amount of fines that are expected to be collected each year.
But Edward Gross, executive director of the New Jersey Turnpike Authority, said the revenue estimates were "conservative." He also said that almost all of the revenue would be new because few fines were collected from scofflaws on toll roads now. He conceded, however, that if the fines did not meet the projections at the end of 10 years, toll revenues would have to cover the cost.
The installation of the E-Z Pass system on New Jersey toll roads will complete one of the last links in an automated toll collection system that will eventually stretch from Washington to Buffalo. Instead of handing over tokens or change, motorists will be able to pay their tolls in advance. They will be able to pass through toll lanes without stopping because an electronic tag posted on their windshield or car door will deduct their toll charges from their prepaid account.
E-Z Pass is already up and running on the Hudson River crossings as well as on New York City's bridges and tunnels and the Gov. Thomas E. Dewey Thruway. After some initial glitches, the system has proved popular with commuters. The Metropolitan Transportation Authority, which has installed the system on seven bridges and two tunnels, has far exceeded its sales projections, officials said.
New Jersey lawmakers gave final approval last year to set up an automatic toll collection system. But there were delays in awarding the lucrative contract because one of the losing bidders, Lockheed Martin IMS, had filed a lawsuit.
Lockheed officials unsuccessfully argued in court that the bidding process should be reopened because the former state transportation commissioner had talked about his own job prospects with two companies that stood to benefit from the deal.
State transportation officials awarded the $488 million contract to MFS Network Technologies of Omaha, Neb., to install and operate the system over the next 10 years on 700 toll lanes.
Although it will take as long as two years to open E-Z Pass toll lanes on the Garden State Parkway and the New Jersey Turnpike, state transportation officials said that they expected the new technology would be available on the Atlantic City Expressway within a year. Under the contract, MFS Network will also install a fiber-optic cable network along more than 400 miles of roadways owned by the state's various transportation authorities.
New Jersey transportation officials said that $450 million of the cost of the project would come from toll violators. They estimated that they would generate another $118.5 million from telecommunications companies seeking to lease access to new fiber-optic cables over the next 10 years.
In New York, transportation officials have paid for the installation and operation of the E-Z Pass system with toll revenues.
New Jersey's Transportation Commissioner, John J. Haley Jr., billed the new electronic toll system as a major "customer service initiative."
"Because transportation is New Jersey's lifeblood, E-Z Pass will help insure that our toll roads and bridges are not an impediment to a strong and vibrant economy," Mr. Haley said. "It will improve the movement of goods, reduce congestion and pollution at the toll plazas and provide a level of convenience and efficiency that drivers demand and deserve."
But when asked whether a more appealing "customer service initiative" for motorists would be to remove tolls on some roadways, like the Garden State Parkway, Mr. Haley laughed. He said that the new electronic toll system would allow the state to examine toll prices more closely and make "unified toll decisions." Now, decisions about toll increases are made by the individual state authorities that oversee the different roadways.
"We ought to begin thinking of some toll relief," Mr. Haley said.
Under the contract, the state and MFS Network would share in revenue generated above the estimated $488 million cost of the project. After the project is paid for with the revenues from the fiber-optic network and toll violators, Mr. Haley said that the state's transportation authorities would keep 85 percent of the revenues, and MFS Network would keep 15 percent.
Once the E-Z Pass system is installed, he said, New Jersey motorists will be able to use their prepaid toll accounts at the Hudson River crossings, operated by the Port Authority, and on bridges and tunnels in New York City and throughout the region.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LMT (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3829 MEASURING & CONTROLLING DEVICES, NEC (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); OMAHA, NE, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW JERSEY TURNPIKE AUTHORITY INC (55%); LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (51%); MFS NETWORK TECHNOLOGIES INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; NEW JERSEY TURNPIKE; GARDEN STATE PARKWAY (NJ); UNITED STATES (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); OMAHA, NE, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ROADS AND TRAFFIC; SPEED LIMITS AND SPEEDING; FINES (PENALTIES); FINANCES; TOLLS TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (93%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (89%); CONTRACT AWARDS (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); SPEED LIMITS (77%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (74%); FINES & PENALTIES (74%); APPROVALS (73%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (71%); SALES PROJECTIONS (67%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (60%); LITIGATION (60%); SUITS & CLAIMS (60%); 

PERSON: PRESTON, JENNIFER JOHN J HALEY JR (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1998



257 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 12, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1038 words

HEADLINE: CLINTON MOVES UP HIS TRIP TO CHINA TO LATE IN JUNE

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET with SETH FAISON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 11

 BODY:
Eager to prevent any deterioration of relations between the United States and China over human rights and other issues, the Clinton Administration has decided to move up this year's Presidential trip to Beijing to late June, from November, senior Administration officials said today.
Chinese officials, who are anxious to showcase the first visit of an American President to China since the massacre of unarmed civilians near Tiananmen Square in 1989, leapt at the Administration's proposal for an earlier meeting, said Administration officials here and in Beijing. 
 "It is pretty much a done deal," one senior Administration official said today.
The rescheduled trip is likely to follow on the heels of the Paula Jones sexual misconduct trial against the President, which is to start on May 27 in Little Rock. Indeed, the trial will now be bracketed by high-profile foreign trips, since Mr. Clinton is scheduled to return from a visit to Europe on May 19.
Mr. Clinton does not have to appear at the trial, and will not attend as an observer. But some of his advisers want to hold open the option for him to appear to testify in his own defense, if necessary.
Administration officials have been at pains to deny that the charges against Mr. Clinton have had any impact on how he governs and today said that the Jones trial had nothing to do with rescheduling the China trip. But planners have left Mr. Clinton enough time in June to go to Little Rock if he chooses to. Aides to Mr. Clinton predicted that the trial will be over before he leaves for China.
Because appearances with foreign leaders provide a great opportunity for Presidents to appear Presidential, Mr. Clinton may reap political benefits from the trip. In conducting a summit meeting with leaders of the world's most populous nation immediately after the Paula Jones trial, Mr. Clinton will be able to demonstrate that he is absorbed in his official duties, which has been the White House strategy for deflecting charges about his personal life.
Senior officials offered slightly varying reasons today for rescheduling the 10-day China trip, now set for the last week of June and the first week of July. One official said that the White House was eager to build on progress made during the visit by President Jiang Zemin of China to the United States last October.
"There's tremendous positive feeling over there about the relationship," this official said.
But another senior official said that the President's advisers were concerned that relations with China had deteriorated recently. "It feels like some of that momentum has stalled," he said. He cited repeated disagreements in the United Nations Security Council over policy toward Iraq.
Some Administration officials are anticipating further tension with China over the meeting of the United Nations Human Rights Commission in Geneva next week. Applying pressure on the Administration to forcefully criticize Beijing's human rights record, House and Senate committees today approved non-binding resolutions urging the Administration to denounce China's abuses in Geneva. The Administration has not decided what approach to take in Geneva.
Officials here said that the idea to go to China earlier in the year originated with the American Ambassador to Beijing, James Sasser, who broached it with the President's national security adviser, Samuel R. Berger, during a recent visit here. Mr. Sasser was said to have wanted to hold the summit meeting in April.
But Mr. Clinton had conflicting trips already scheduled for April and May. And he could not go to China in early June, one official said, because there would not be enough recovery time after the European trip. Another official offered an additional reason, saying that the White House did not want Mr. Clinton to appear in China near the June 4 anniversary of the Tiananmen violence.
"It's probably dicey enough that we're in the same month," one official said.
As today's Congressional resolutions indicate, Mr. Clinton is in some ways taking a political risk in going to China. But he has committed his Administration to increasing economic ties with China in hopes of encouraging democracy and political freedom there.
Even before the accusations regarding Monica S. Lewinsky were disclosed in January, Mr. Clinton's aides had planned the busiest year of foreign travel of his Presidency, and they are still adding to it.
Later this month, Mr. Clinton plans a two-week trip to Africa, his first trip there as President. The White House today added Rwanda to his itinerary; he is also to visit Botswana, Ghana, Senegal, South Africa and Uganda.
In April, he is scheduled to spend almost a week in South America. And his aides have been tentatively tacking stops on to the May trip to the economic summit meeting in Birmingham, England. Mr. Clinton is planning to stop first in Berlin, and he may also stop in Moscow and Dublin, aides said.
Later this year, Mr. Clinton plans a visit to India, Pakistan and Bangladesh, and a separate trip to Malaysia. He had originally planned to stop in China as part of the Malaysia trip, but the Administration learned that for the Chinese "connecting this trip with another trip devalued it in their eyes," one official said. By making the China visit a stand-alone trip, the Administration believed it would wring more gains from the talks.
A senior American diplomat in Beijing said: "Since the Jiang visit, everything has gone more smoothly." He said that the Chinese were so eager for Mr. Clinton's visit that they indicated a willingness to alter plans for visits by leaders from other countries to accommodate him.
China's leaders, the diplomat said, are mystified by the crisis surrounding Monica Lewinsky, and are unlikely to understand how it might affect Mr. Clinton's travel plans.
Chinese diplomats clearly hope that a visit by Mr. Clinton will put the memory of Tiananmen Square behind them and cement a more cooperative relationship.
"There is a strong desire on both sides for friendly cooperation, not for confrontation," Yang Jiechi, assistant foreign minister, said in an interview. "Both sides see a common good in a better relationship."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); SWITZERLAND (79%); IRAQ (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (88%); 

COMPANY: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (93%); WHITE HOUSE (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (93%); WHITE HOUSE (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); SWITZERLAND (79%); IRAQ (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (88%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; SEXUAL HARASSMENT; SUITS AND LITIGATION US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (77%); MISCONDUCT (75%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (74%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (74%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (73%); LITIGATION (69%); TESTIMONY (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (62%); 

PERSON: BENNET, JAMES; FAISON, SETH; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); JONES, PAULA CORBIN BILL CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1998



258 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 12, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1188 words

HEADLINE: Saturn Union Votes to Retain Its Cooperative Company Pact

BYLINE: By ROBYN MEREDITH 

DATELINE: SPRING HILL, Tenn., March 11

 BODY:
After weeks of dissension in a workplace known for harmony, two-thirds of the workers at the Saturn car factory here voted down a measure that would have asked the company to jettison their current union contract, corporate America's most prominent continuing experiment in labor-management cooperation.
A General Motors Corporation executive hailed the vote. "The membership has spoken," said Donald W. Hudler, president and chairman of the board of Saturn, which is owned by G.M. 
 Local union officials, who had urged their membership to endorse the contract by voting down the ballot measure, nonetheless criticized G.M.
"You cannot take for granted that this membership will continue with this partnership forever without some visible commitment in return," Michael E. Bennett, chairman of Local 1853 of the United Automobile Workers, said. "It is time for General Motors to explain to all of us whether the Saturn success story and the U.A.W. partnership has any value for General Motors as it moves into the new millennium."
In two days of polling, 4,052 union members voted to keep the current labor agreement, which calls for the company and union members to cooperate in running the Saturn plant and encourages teamwork on the factory floor. In opposition were 2,120 who voted to jettison the unique contract and instead return to the industrywide U.A.W. contract, which would have provided explicit pay guarantees in the event of layoffs.
Job cuts are prohibited at Saturn under the current agreement except under "catastrophic events or severe economic conditions." Plagued by a declining small-car market, Saturn's sales have plummeted, and many workers said that they feared layoffs in the coming months. Last year, Saturn sales fell 9.9 percent and in the first two months of this year, they have fallen 20.2 percent.
Until the small-car slump began two years ago, Saturn, G.M.'s newest brand, had enjoyed a series of successes. Propelled by folksy advertising that showed teams of Saturn workers cheerfully building cars, Saturn attracted what for General Motors was a new breed of buyer -- those accustomed to buying fuel-efficient Japanese cars.
In addition, Saturn broke new ground with its no-haggle sales strategy in car dealerships. Customers loved the low-pressure sales tactics at Saturn, where the price on the window sticker was what buyers actually paid. Current prices range from $10,600 to $14,800 and Saturns can be leased for as little as $129 a month.
While it is unclear how the union contract would have changed had it been rejected in the referendum, both the company and the union said they would have entered into negotiations to resolve the issue.
Workers on both sides said they expected changes at Saturn, including explicit provisions detailing what would happen in the event of layoffs. Many also called for greater worker influence over Saturn's business decisions. Saturn workers have been clamoring for G.M. to expand Saturn's lineup for years to include a midsize car and a sport utility vehicle. The workers were disconcerted when G.M. decided several years ago to build a midsize Saturn in an existing factory in Wilmington, Del., instead of here in Tennessee.
"There's a heck of a fire going down here in Spring Hill," said Thomas W. Hopp, 39, who helped organize a group called Concerned Brothers and Sisters of Local 1853, which forced the referendum. "I believe every single one of our issues will be addressed" in future talks prompted by this week's vote, he said.
"We've won because we got our point across and Saturn will never be the same," Mr. Hopp said.
Mr. Bennett, the local union leader, said it was now up to G.M. to improve the situation at Saturn. "The vote today represents the fact that this local union membership is as dedicated and committed to the original Saturn idea as it was in 1985," he said. "The question, as yet to be answered, is whether or not it's alive and appreciated in Detroit."
Mr. Hudler, the Saturn executive, said General Motors was well aware of the workers' concerns.
"We're going to work very hard to resolve that," Mr. Hudler said. "We need to re-vision where we go from here and we're doing that internally."
Rank-and-file members who voted to keep the current labor contract said they hoped the vote would spark reforms. "It will be a wake-up call for all of us to look at our contract," Lee G. Swegles, 31, said. "I hope it sends a message to G.M. that we need to be unique."
Barbara D. Jennings, 41, who voted to reject the current agreement and return to the traditional contract used by all other G.M. workers, said she was concerned that slow sales would prompt layoffs. "I like Saturn -- I like what it stands for," Ms. Jennings said. "Most of us are just looking for job security."
Saturn is the latest company to see its worker-management cooperation experiment hit turbulence on encountering rough market conditions.
"Many of the most innovative approaches to labor-management relations have hit the rocks when times have turned bad," said Harley S. Shaiken, a professor specializing in labor issues at the University of California at Berkeley. "It is really difficult to talk about cooperation if you're laying people off or if they fear being laid off."
Levi Strauss & Company has for years been a model of cooperation between workers and management. But tensions grew last fall, after it announced it would close 11 factories this year, leaving 6,395 workers jobless. And tensions ran high in the early 1990's when the Xerox Corporation announced huge layoffs despite its attempts at worker empowerment over the last two decades.
"The partnerships are easy when times are good and there's not much controversy," said Bruce S. Raynor, secretary-treasurer of the Union of Needle Trades, Industrial and Textile Employees, which represents workers at both Levi Strauss and Xerox. "Those two are ones I think have weathered the bad times."
Of course most labor-management cooperation pacts were born in bad times -- often when a company faced going out of business or a union faced factory closings. Under such circumstances, companies and workers sometimes have little choice but to agree to the power-sharing arrangements. "You could argue they weren't freely entered into," said Douglas A. Fraser, a labor professor at Wayne State University in Detroit and a former president of the United Automobile Workers union.
The cooperative agreements are particularly fragile. "A lot of times when they break down it's not because of new economic circumstances," Mr. Fraser said. "An individual can make a difference -- a new plant manager, a new local union president."
Despite the volatility of such partnerships, unions expect more in the future. "There are lots of partnerships that haven't survived," said Nancy F. Mills, director of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s Center for Workplace Democracy. "The trend is still in the direction of workers taking on more and more responsibility."
"This may be a slip in the road, but I don't think it is a setback to the general trend," she said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS; GENERAL MOTORS CORP; SATURN DIVISION OF GENERAL MOTORS CORP MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (85%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS; GENERAL MOTORS CORP; SATURN DIVISION OF GENERAL MOTORS CORP INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; LABOR; LABOR-MANAGEMENT RELATIONS AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); REFERENDUMS (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); BALLOTS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); COMPANY STRATEGY (72%); NEW CAR DEALERS (71%); SALES PLAN (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: MEREDITH, ROBYN; HUDLER, DONALD W DONALD W HUDLER (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1998



259 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 12, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
The Chinese way: spend out of trouble like Keynesians.

BYLINE: By Peter Passell 

 BODY:
JOHN MAYNARD KEYNES may be out of fashion in the West. But in one of the odder twists to the unfolding Asian crisis, his prophets have resurfaced in Beijing.
To keep the Chinese economy out of recession -- and to prevent the urban proletariat from taking to the barricades -- China's pragmatic Communist leadership is calling for a heady dose of fiscal stimulus that would have made Keynes proud. 
 Acknowledging that fiscal intervention is needed to sustain annual growth of more than 8 percent is one thing; delivering on that promise is quite another for the Chinese Government. For even if the early reports have exaggerated the amount that China will spend on roads, housing and other public works, any significant increase in outlays is bound to complicate its plans to modernize the half-socialist, half-capitalist economy.
"There's just no easy way out of their predicament," said Nicholas Lardy, a specialist in the Chinese economy at the Brookings Institution.
At first glance, the case for spending is strong. China's ability to modernize has been constrained in recent years by electricity and transportation bottlenecks. And the timing is propitious, since spending could offset economic pain. The combination of currency depreciation and falling output in the rest of Asia is widely expected to reduce the demand for Chinese exports by about $20 billion this year. Meanwhile, the continuing effort to trim China's bloated state enterprises is expected to push several million people out of jobs.
Rather than accept a sharp drop in employment and growth, Chinese leaders have said they will increase spending, with $750 billion to $1 trillion devoted to new construction over three years. Even by the widest definition of infrastructure spending, the Government would have to increase outlays by 60 percent to hit the $750 billion mark -- virtually impossible short of a total mobilization of the economy in the manner of Chairman Mao's Great Leap Forward.
But even a 10 to 20 percent increase, as is deemed plausible by Wing Thye Woo, an economist at the University of California at Davis, would conflict with China's other policy goals. The only practical way to increase spending rapidly is to funnel the cash to state enterprises -- many of which are industrial dinosaurs with a long history of wasting resources. "All the politics says the Government will give the money to China's equivalent of the Korean chaebols," Mr. Woo said.
Moreover, new public spending is likely to displace money that would have been used to recapitalize China's insolvent state banks. Bank reform can wait. The banks can easily meet their current obligations to foreigners, and domestic depositors have no place else to go with their money. But the longer the delay, the longer it will take to create the disciplined, efficient market for capital that the economy desperately needs to sustain growth.
China could try to both recapitalize the banks and prime the fiscal pump by opting to run a big deficit. On paper, the risks would be modest: With the cost of living actually falling in recent months, inflation is not a major worry. And with a very small Government debt, China would have little difficulty selling bonds to finance spending. But Jeffrey Sachs, the director of Harvard's Institute for International Development, warns that China's finances are more precarious than the official numbers suggest.
The state banks' bad debts, which may be the equivalent of several hundred billion dollars, are effectively part of the national debt. Worse, what appears to be a nearly balanced budget is actually deeply in the red because the official expenditures do not include subsidies to state enterprises disguised as bank loans. "China is sitting on a mountain of fiscal problems already," Mr. Sachs concluded.
All this points toward a strategy of big talk and modest action. China's leaders, whose political legitimacy is tightly linked to their competence as economic managers, cannot afford to look as if they are ignoring rising unemployment and insolvent banks. By the same token, they cannot afford to risk China's hard-won reputation as fiscally conservative -- a reputation that has prevented capital flight from Hong Kong and allowed the newly installed Government to hold the line on exchange rates.
Beijing appears to have undertaken the delicate task of having it both ways. "These guys know what they're doing," argued Lawrence Kreicher, chief economist for Alliance Capital.

GRAPHIC: Drawing. (Niculae Asciu)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (88%); 

COMPANY: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (99%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (88%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FINANCES ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (77%); INFRASTRUCTURE (75%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (75%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); TRENDS (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); CONSTRUCTION (69%); BANK FAILURES (60%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER JOHN MAYNARD KEYNES (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1998



260 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 12, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1765 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS: Saying No in the Land of Yes;
Japanese Rail Executive Stands Up for Shareholders

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM 

DATELINE: TOKYO, March 11

 BODY:
Never in his wildest dreams did Masatake Matsuda imagine he would tell the Prime Minister no.
Formerly a top-ranking bureaucrat at the Ministry of Transportation, Mr. Matsuda is well versed in the painstaking consensus-building process that banishes "no" from the lexicon of Japanese business and politics. 
 But last month, Mr. Matsuda, now president of the East Japan Railway Company, uttered the forbidden word to Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto, and so did the heads of the six other railway companies that were formed when the national rail system was privatized more than a decade ago.
Mr. Hashimoto was trying to persuade the seven executives, recently dubbed the Seven Samurai by the Japanese press after the heroes of Akira Kurosawa's film of the same name, to absorb an additional $2.85 billion in unfunded pension liabilities that had come to light after the privatization.
"He pleaded with us to rethink our stance, but we rejected his plea right there in front of him," Mr. Matsuda said, obviously still somewhat awed by his own moxie.
Even more astounding, the railroad chiefs risked offending the Prime Minister for a cause regarded as heretical by the Japanese establishment -- their shareholders' rights.
With Mr. Matsuda as ring leader, the seven railway executives contend that the Government is trying to change the terms under which shareholders bought their stock after the privatization. The showdown highlights the growing conflict between the broad social obligations that Japanese companies have shouldered since World War II and their new-found need to attract foreign investors, who naturally think their interests should take priority.
"This whole debate shows a shocking ignorance of the rights of shareholders by government officials and politicians," said Clifford J. Shaw, president of Mercury Asset Management Japan Ltd., a unit of Merrill Lynch & Company, which owns shares in East Japan Railway, known here as JR East. "Such little regard for honoring previous commitments is really disheartening."
The Government's effort to squeeze a billion dollars more from the railroads -- contained in a bill now before the Japanese Parliament, or Diet -- has cast a pall over its plan to sell a second slice of stock in three of the companies for an originally projected $7.8 billion. But the economic impact could be much more damaging, critics warn.
They say the arm-twisting could undermine what little faith investors have in the Government's stated intention to stop interfering so much in the workings of the private sector. And that could curb the market's appetite for future privatizations, which the Government needs to raise money to close a yawning budget deficit and shore up the nation's rickety financial system.
"If the Government decides to ignore market principles in this way, we believe the impact will spread far beyond merely devaluing the companies' shares," Naoko Matsumoto, a transport analyst at Merrill Lynch, wrote in a report earlier this year. "We believe it would change the entire perception of the Japanese market."
Not that Japan has ever been mistaken for a land of swashbuckling capitalists. In the United States these days, and to a lesser extent in Europe, shareholders are treated as a company's ultimate masters. In Japan, by contrast, the welfare of the employees and the designs of management hold sway.
Moreover, some 70 percent of the shares of the average company are held by friendly affiliate companies to create a web of long-term cross-holdings that become a reliable rubber stamp for management. The system is slowly breaking down, but until recently cross-shareholdings were so durable that the Japanese referred to them as "shiozuke," or pickled.
Legal reforms passed in 1993 made it easier for individual shareholders to sue companies, and the number of shareholder cases has more than doubled since then.
But the Keidanren, Japan's powerful big business association, is currently lobbying to limit such suits once again. "There is no real market control of management of corporations here," said Koji Morioka, a professor at Kansai University and the head of Shareholder Ombudsman, a shareholder advocacy group.
That why Mr. Matsuda's crusade is so remarkable, although he doesn't see it that way. "As president of this company, which is a public company and has to observe market rules," he said, "I can't just decide to violate the shareholders' rights in order to give charity to the Government,"
Indeed, to Japanese shareholders' ears, Mr. Matsuda sounds almost too good to be true. When other Japanese executives argue on behalf of shareholder rights, it is usually more a matter of convenience than conviction.
But the fact that Mr. Matsuda and his fellow executives did agree to pay what they regarded as a fair portion of the pension shortage suggests that they are not simply trying to avoid additional debt. "Mr. Matsuda is rather unique among Japanese business executives, but I think he's sincere in what he's saying," said Naoto Hashimoto, a transportation analyst at Nomura Securities and an expert on the rail system's privatization.
Under the terms of the privatization, the companies assumed a staggering $113.7 billion of the debt accumulated by the Japan National Railway, while the Government-backed JNR Settlement Corporation picked up $173 billion. Then, in 1996, when the privatized companies went to merge their pension funds with the public pension fund, $7.4 billion in previously undetected pension liabilities came to light, and the companies agreed to pay what they considered their fair share, or $1.35 billion. The Parliament approved a law for the Settlement Corporation to handle the rest.
Now the Government is disbanding the Settlement Corporation, and it wants the railroad companies to pick up more -- $2.85 billion more -- of the pension tab, which they are determinedly resisting. "Adding on to our debt is a breach of a promise," Mr. Matsuda said. "This was a contract between the state of Japan and the companies, and the Government should not go back on its promises."
Such a frontal attack on the Government's integrity by a corporate executive is highly unusual in Japan. But Mr. Matsuda is not afraid of a little adversity. His conference room prominently features a calligraphy of a 3,000-year-old Chinese character that combines the symbols for hand and stone and means opening the frontier. And after all, he says, his motives are patriotic.
"I'm really a quiet, gentle man," he insists. "But I believe we have to fight things out in the open. Japan can no longer afford to do things the old way of kowtowing to politicians and making decisions in a black box."
His stance has touched off a minor revolt in the ruling Liberal Democratic Party. Concerned about the negative publicity, several senior party members refused to support proposed legislation that would force the seven railroad companies to pony up the extra money.
"I cannot accept the bill because it will hurt international confidence in Japan," said Yohei Kono, a former party president. It was the first time in as long as anyone can remember that a bill ended up in the Parliament without the unanimous approval of the party leaders.
The bill is expected to pass, in which case JR East has threatened to embarrass the Government further by suing it. Any lawsuit would risk throwing an unwelcome spotlight on the Government's history of mismanagement of the railways. And even though it raised $70.6 billion through the sale of their assets and stock, it did not use the proceeds to pay down Government debt, which has mushroomed to $220 billion from $173 billion.
In contrast, the privatized companies have shrunk their inherited debt of $113.7 billion to $100 billion while cutting costs and increasing revenues through new station developments that encompass retailing, hotel management and even credit services.
The Government plans to use tax revenues, including a new tax on cigarettes, to pay off the debt. Taxpayers are incensed that their money is being used to bail out yet another business that the Government mismanaged, and smokers question why they should bear an additional burden when smoking is restricted to a handful of railway cars.
"The Ministry of Finance is responsible for the negligence that put us in this position," said Katsutsugu Sekiya, a member of Parliament who heads a special committee on the Japan National Railway's long-term debt. "Also the politicians, who allocated the budget of the national railroad to bullet trains and local lines in order to create employment in their districts."
Mr. Sekiya himself is one of those politicians, as he happily pointed out during a recent interview, having ordered up the Uchiko Line on Shikoku Island to bring jobs to his constituents. Not that it did him much good, since shortly after the project began, his district was gerrymandered so that the line no longer runs through it.
But while he accepts responsibility for the problem, Mr. Sekiya is determined that the privatized rail companies and their shareholders will pay part of the cost of solving it. "If the stockholders think that is unfair, they should sell their stocks," he said.
The Government acknowledges that the pension shift will impose an additional burden on shareholders in the railroads but argues that it will save them money in the long run. The newly discovered money shortgage, said Katsuhito Nawano, senior deputy director general of the railway bureau of the Ministry of Transportation and one of the chief architects of the proposed legislation, was the result of merging the railroads' pension funds with the national pension system. Thus, he maintained, shareholders should be happy to assume that burden because otherwise their companies would be grappling with bankrupt pension systems.
But because the shortfall relates to the pensions of those employees who have worked for the rail system both before and after privatization, the companies insist the Government is partly responsible.
"We have paid our fair share in full," Mr. Matsuda said. He chalks up his outspoken defiance to a "frontier spirit" that imbues natives of Hokkaido, the cold, harsh northernmost island in the Japanese archipelago, and to entering the bureaucracy at a time when American management philosophy was wildly popular in theory but not in practice. "I told myself then it would be a revolutionary change to adopt those principles," he said. "But there was never any effort to cause a revolution."
Until now.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Masatake Matsuda, president of East Japan Railway, next to one of the newest of the so-called bullet trains. (Fumiyo Asahi for The New York Times)
 
Graph:
JAPAN'S SOCIAL SECURITY TAXES ARE LOWER THAN OTHER COUNTRIES . . .
Social security taxes as a share of hourly compensation for manufacturing workers, in 1996.
 
Japan -- 15%
United States -- 21%
Britain -- 13%
Germany -- 25%
France -- 31%
 
. . . BUT IT HAS FAIRLY GENEROUS RETIREMENT BENEFITS . . .
After-tax share of average wage replaced by the social security system.
 
Japan -- 55%
United States -- 50%
Britain -- 50%
Germany -- 63%
France -- 78%
 
. . . WHICH PUTS ITS PUBLIC PENSION SYSTEM IN A SHAKY FINANCIAL POSITION.
Net value of pension liabilities as a percentage of gross domestic product.
 
Japan -- 105%
United States -- 25%
Britain -- 5%
Germany -- 110%
France -- 115%
 
(Sources: Bureau of Labor Statistics; The Brookings Review; Watson Wyatt Worldwide) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: 9020 (TSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS485112 COMMUTER RAIL SYSTEMS (84%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (84%); SIC4111 LOCAL & SUBURBAN TRANSIT (84%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (53%); SIC6726 UNIT INVESTMENT TRUSTS, FACE-AMOUNT CERTIFICATE OFFICES, & CLOSED-END MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES (53%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); FRANCE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (93%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: EAST JAPAN RAILWAY EAST JAPAN RAILWAY CO (84%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%); MERCURY ASSET MANAGEMENT GROUP PLC (53%); MERCURY ASSET MANAGEMENT HOLDINGS LTD (53%); MERCURY ASSET MANAGEMENT GROUP SERVICES LTD (53%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EAST JAPAN RAILWAY BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (99%); FRANCE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (93%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: RAILROADS; FINANCES; PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; PRIVATIZATION; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS PRIME MINISTERS (91%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); PRIVATIZATION (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS (88%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (71%); TRENDS (70%); PERSONAL FINANCE (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); WORLD WAR II (50%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%); 

PERSON: STROM, STEPHANIE; MATSUDA, MASATAKE; HASHIMOTO, RYUTARO (PRIME MIN) AKIRA KUROSAWA (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1998



261 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 12, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 867 words

HEADLINE: Many Serbs Would Just Rather Not Fight to Keep Kosovo

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: BELGRADE, Serbia, March 11

 BODY:
Few Serbs announce any qualms in the first moments of conversation, but not far beneath the surface outrage over the turmoil in Kosovo lurks opposition to any notion of fighting to keep the southern province.
If President Slobodan Milosevic wanted to rally the Serbs to fight against Kosovo's ethnic Albanians -- as he did against the Croats and then the Bosnians -- he would be unable to do so, Serbian nationalists and political analysts said. 
 Struggling to stay afloat in an economy crippled by war, sanctions and pervasive government corruption, many Serbs say they feel betrayed by Mr. Milosevic's failed promise of a greater Serbia. They want no part of an effort to hang on to the last morsel of it.
"I personally feel apathetic even though I can understand the issue intellectually," said Ljubomir Tadic, 73, a professor of philosophy at the Academy of Sciences and a Serbian nationalist who is angered that ethnic Albanians outnumber Serbs so dramatically in Kosovo. "People don't have pensions. The Americans have frozen our money. It is hard to get passionate about it."
Mr. Tadic said Mr. Milosevic should start "immediate" negotiations with the Albanians in Kosovo and work toward granting the province more autonomy. Mr. Tadic -- like the American policy makers he says he despises -- is opposed to the ethnic Albanian demands for independence.
On Tuesday the Serbian Government made an appeal for a dialogue with the Kosovo Albanians, but many Albanians said they were not taking the gesture seriously.
In many ways, the repression of Albanians in Kosovo by Serbian forces is a last chapter in the conflicts that Mr. Milosevic used to try and create a greater Serbia but which only tore the former Yugoslavia apart.
But seven years after the start of those wars, Mr. Milosevic, now the isolated leader of an economic backwater, has spent the good will of his people.
A poll published today in the independent newspaper Nedeljeni Telegraf showed that more than 70 percent of those asked said they were against close relatives' being sent to fight in Kosovo.
To many here, Kosovo, where fewer than 200,000 Serbs live, seems a historical outpost. It hardly seems worth the expensive upkeep, they say. Unlike most civil servants in Serbia, the police who are stationed in Kosovo to control the Albanians are paid their salaries by the Milosevic Government on a regular basis.
A Serbian writer referred to Kosovo today as "dead history," a place where beautiful Orthodox monasteries were revered but were not worth spilling blood over.
"What is important is how to live better," said the writer, Slobodan Reljic. "Our biggest problem is the threat of sanctions. Only a few people have relatives there."
Rather than seeing the chance for greater glory in Kosovo, many Serbs now see a lost cause, said Bratislav Grubavic, the editor of an influential newsletter VIP, which is distributed in diplomatic circles.
"Emotionally they care about it, but not to the extent of fighting for it," said Mr. Grubavic. "They are sad that it is a lost cause and it can't be under Serb control. Consciously or subconsciously they know Serbs have lost wars, and they know Kosovo will be a final act in this show."
But such realism does not mean that Mr. Milosevic will respond to popular feeling or give in quickly to Western demands for serious negotiations, Mr. Grubavic said.
Serbian police action against the Albanians will probably not end any time soon, he said. Part of Mr. Milosevic's strategy in using the police to pummel the Albanians in Kosovo, he said, was to weaken Ibrahim Rugova, their leader, whom Washington has encouraged to open talks with Mr. Milosevic.
While many Serbs said they were prepared to grant Kosovo autonomy, some Serbian nationalists have said that in order to maintain the "purest" Serbia, Kosovo should be allowed to secede.
This theory was put forward a year ago by members of the Serbian Academy of Sciences who argued that because of the high birth rate among Albanians in Kosovo, Serbs would be outnumbered by other groups in Serbia within a decade.
At present, demographers estimate that Serbs make up about 62 percent of the 11 million population of Serbia and that non-Serbs, including Albanians, Hungarians and Bulgarians, make up 38 percent.
Even in Mr. Milosevic's hometown of Pozarevac, 50 miles south of Belgrade, the passion for war has long evaporated, said Dragoslav Cvetic, an editor at Radio Bum, an independent station there.
Indeed, Mr. Milosevic is so unpopular that he can no longer resort to the nationalist argument to resurrect his image. "People don't have money, and they are very concerned about that," Mr. Cvetic said. "Milosevic is very afraid that the Americans are like demons. He doesn't have the courage to defy them, and he wouldn't have any support from the Serbs if he did."
Contrasting the atmosphere in the early 1990's, when Mr. Milosevic whipped the Serbs into a frenzy of war and the fatigue today, Milorad Tadic, a Belgrade truck driver, said: "Then we were fighting for Serbia. Now we would be fighting for Milosevic's throne. I wouldn't give one hair for Kosovo or for Milosevic."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); ALBANIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); CROATIA (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); SERBIA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); ALBANIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); CROATIA (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; ETHICS; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS) POLITICS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); WRITERS (85%); CIVIL SERVICES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); ETHICS (75%); PHILOSOPHY (73%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (71%); TRENDS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%); 

PERSON: PERLEZ, JANE; MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES) SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1998



262 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 12, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1058 words

HEADLINE: House G.O.P. Puts Brakes on I.M.F. Funds

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 11

 BODY:
House Republican leaders said today that they would hold up financing for the International Monetary Fund and back dues owed to the United Nations until the White House agreed to an anti-abortion provision.
Republican leaders said they would attach a ban on financing international groups that promote abortions overseas to an emergency spending bill that includes $18 billion for the I.M.F. and nearly $1 billion that the United States owes the United Nations. 
 The White House and its Democratic allies on Capitol Hill rejected the Republican proposal. They suggested that President Clinton would veto the spending bill, despite furious lobbying by his foreign policy advisers to secure the funding it contains, rather than buckle to Republican demands.
"We're certainly moving in that direction if Congress continues to move in the direction it is moving," said the White House spokesman, Michael D. McCurry. "What Congress is trying to do is to prevent recipients of some of this funding from doing what they would be protected in the United States from doing under the First Amendment."
The impasse threatens to derail financing that the Administration says the I.M.F. badly needs to cope with the financial crisis in Asia, and that the United Nations has been demanding from Washington at a time when Secretary General Kofi Annan has played a central role in calming the latest crisis with Iraq.
Last year Republicans blocked financing to the I.M.F. by linking it to the abortion provision. But that was before the financial problems in Asia. If they pursue the same course now, Republicans will risk the wrath of Wall Street and corporate America, which last month began a lobbying campaign for approval of the I.M.F. financing.
"If we fail to act, we'll be sending a message that we're not interested in those markets," Thomas J. Donohue, president of the United States Chamber of Commerce, said in a telephone interview. "That would come under the heading of stupid."
Neither side shows any sign of softening its position; each believes it holds the best political cards. But the risk of not acting during the Asian crisis and of offending women also bring perils to both sides.
Even though the Administration has been urging prompt action on the I.M.F. refunding, the House and Senate may not vote on the money until after their April recess.
Representative Tom DeLay of Texas, the Republican whip, said in an interview when told of the veto threat: "The President's really not interested in getting I.M.F. funding, is he? Our members aren't too thrilled about I.M.F. in the first place."
But Senator Thomas A. Daschle of South Dakota, the Democratic leader, said, "We're just not going to be blackmailed into accepting language that is totally unacceptable."
The standoff reprises a similar showdown between the White House and the Republican-controlled Congress last November. At that time it appeared that an assiduous yearlong effort by the White House to win approval for the I.M.F. and United Nations payments had paid off.
But conservative House Republicans insisted on the abortion provision. After Mr. Clinton threatened to veto the foreign operations spending bill, the abortion language was dropped, but so were United Nations and I.M.F. payments, as well as a State Department reorganization plan.
From the ashes of that defeat, the White House has urged Congressional leaders in recent weeks to resurrect the financing for the I.M.F. -- a $3.5 billion contribution to a new line of emergency credit and $14.5 billion to replenish the Fund's capital base -- and to the United Nations in an emergency-spending bill.
The Senate appears willing to approve the payments and opposes the abortion restrictions. But conservative House Republicans, led by Representative Christopher H. Smith of New Jersey, have held the Speaker, Newt Gingrich, to his pledge to link the abortion provisions to the foreign-policy initiatives.
"Killing babies is a very serious matter," Mr. Smith said in an interview. "This Administration is promoting abortion overseas."
International organizations like the United Nations and the I.M.F. are frequent political targets of conservative Republicans. But the current fight has put many Republicans in the awkward position of choosing between two key constituencies: big business and opponents of abortion.
Last month an array of powerful business groups began a lobbying campaign in support of the I.M.F. payments. Business leaders and their Congressional allies are concerned that American companies could lose billions of dollars in exports because of the Asian currency crisis.
Moreover, the stakes in Asia are much greater than they were last fall. "This could have a very serious impact on the finances of many countries," said Representative Benjamin A. Gilman, a New York Republican who heads the House International Relations Committee. "There's a real interest on our part to resolve this."
But abortion opponents carry influence with many conservative Republicans. "If there's someone who worries more about a foreign economic crisis than the principle of U.S. taxpayer money going to repeal right-to-life laws, I haven't met them," said Representative John Shadegg, an Arizona Republican.
The abortion provision is also attached to a separate bill that reauthorizes the activities of the State Department and the agency's reorganization plan. The bill, which the House may vote on as early as Thursday, would also authorize the $921 million in arrears the United States owes the United Nations. Because of the abortion provision, this bill is also likely to draw Mr. Clinton's veto.
A third spending bill is likely to emerge unscathed before Congress adjourns for its spring recess in early April. That emergency spending bill for the fiscal year that began last October would appropriate $1.4 billion for military operations in the Persian Gulf, $487 million for operations in Bosnia and $642 million in disaster relief to states like California that have suffered severe storm damage.
One provision of the Senate version of this bill may draw objections. It would bar the Federal Communications Commission from spending money to enforce a policy requiring television networks to give political candidates free commercial time. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); ASIA (92%); IRAQ (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND; UNITED NATIONS INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (95%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND; UNITED NATIONS INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (95%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (98%); ASIA (92%); IRAQ (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ABORTION; LAW AND LEGISLATION INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); ABORTION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); VETO (89%); SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); APPROVALS (70%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (67%); 

PERSON: SCHMITT, ERIC; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) TOM DASCHLE (77%); BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1998



263 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 12, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 746 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING;
California, taking a cue from other regions, plans a specialized promotion for cultural tourism.

BYLINE: By Andrea Adelson 

 BODY:
A NEW campaign promoting California as a destination for cultural tourism goes beyond the obvious beacons like the Getty Center in Los Angeles. One suggested stop is the Thai Plaza on Hollywood Boulevard, where a Thai Elvis performs on Tuesday nights for throngs of Asian regulars.
The Thai Plaza is listed in "On the Edge," one of 13 itineraries included in a 32-page advertising insert that is the foundation of a $3 million promotion by the year-old California Cultural Tourism Coalition. Last year, the group received a $150,000 grant from the National Endowment for the Arts, which supported the project as a national model. 
 The insert's brightly inked pages, designed by the Garza Group in Pasadena, Calif., use a montage of photos and text to describe highlights of the itineraries. Each one suggests a themed cultural trail that can be followed in Los Angeles, San Francisco or San Diego.
The insert is appearing in the March issue of the American Express Company's Travel and Leisure magazine. It is also to appear in two travel industry trade publications in March and is being sent to 200,000 customers of American Express, which is a corporate underwriter of the effort. The insert is expected to reach a combined audience of one million.
Along with highlights like the new Getty Center, the insert's pages sketch out a road map to less prominent cultural outposts. Besides kitsch and camp sites from "On the Edge," an adventurous tourist could sample contemporary music in "Jazz and Blues," feel the fusion of Latino cultures at "Fiesta" locations, explore lesbian and gay culture in "Pride," absorb architectural contrasts in "Art to Architecture" or retrace state history along the "Mission Trail."
Readers of the insert are urged to obtain more detailed descriptions from "California: Culture's Edge," a 120-page guide created by the coalition that is being distributed free to 50,000 travel agents around the country. The compendium will be on line at www.californiasedge.com.
"For a lot of years, people thought California culture meant yogurt," said John R. Poimiroo, director of the state's Division of Tourism, which contributed $70,000 to the effort. The stereotype persists even though the state has museums devoted to subjects that range from steam engines to underwear. "We've taken them for granted and never seen them as tourism treasures," Mr. Poimiroo said.
By making culture more accessible, the campaign aims to show out-of-state visitors that there is more to California than Yosemite and Disneyland and gives them reasons to linger longer. The average stay in California is three days, down from five days a decade ago. That was before other Western destinations, such as Las Vegas, Nev.; Phoenix, and Santa Fe, N.M., stepped up their own tourism promotions.
"We're making a big effort to change the erroneous perception in the front line that there's no culture," said Robert Barrett, an executive at the Los Angeles Visitors and Convention Bureau and a coalition leader.
California's emphasis on travel for cultural reasons reflects the success of similar efforts -- emphasizing concepts like eco-tourism and heritage tourism, which focuses on history -- in other regions.
"We can prove it," said Becky C. Anderson, executive director of Handmade in America, a nonprofit group in Asheville, N.C., that created a self-guided tour to North Carolina's crafts community in 1996. California used Handmade as its model.
Now more artisans are opening their backwoods studios to the public. And shops like the Weaving Room in remote Crossmore, N.C., are seeing revenue increase. "They credit it every bit to the guidebook," said Ms. Anderson, who envisions tours focusing on the region's Cherokee heritage and music.
In a different twist, City Pass Inc. in Napa, Calif., last June began selling to tour operators and visitors a discounted package of tickets to San Francisco and Seattle cultural sites. This summer, City Pass will get a tryout in Boston and New York. Locations in New York will include four museums and the observation decks at the Empire State Building and the World Trade Center.
With programs like City Pass and California's cultural tours, travelers are more likely to make extra stops that they would normally have overlooked, said Michael B. Gallagher, the founder of City Pass. "People travel to see culture, but the cultural community gets the least amount of economic benefit," he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (82%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); NEVADA, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); SANTA FE, NM, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GARZA GROUP; CALIFORNIA CULTURAL TOURISM COALITION AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (82%); NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (57%); NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: GARZA GROUP; CALIFORNIA CULTURAL TOURISM COALITION NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (57%); NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); NEVADA, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); SANTA FE, NM, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; ADVERTISING; CULTURE TOURISM (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (89%); ENDOWMENTS (89%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); JAZZ & BLUES (77%); PRINT ADVERTISING (76%); GRANTS & GIFTS (76%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); TRAVEL AGENTS (67%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (67%); GAYS & LESBIANS (63%); MUSIC (50%); 

PERSON: ADELSON, ANDREA

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1998



264 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 12, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 457 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
A $4 Billion Global Issue by the World Bank Sells Quickly

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
The World Bank priced its largest dollar-denominated global bond issue ever yesterday, as solid demand from investors insured its quick sale and oversubscription.
While the recent cascade of corporate financings scheduled to be priced has weighed on the Treasury market, the World Bank deal did not because it was completed quickly. 
 The World Bank, which lends money to developing countries, sold $4 billion in global bonds through underwriters led by Goldman Sachs International, J. P. Morgan and SBC Warburg Dillon Read. The issue was triple-A rated and priced to yield 5.703 percent for a bond due 2003, or about 14 basis points above a Treasury security with a similar maturity. (A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.)
Randy C. Snook, managing director of corporate new issues at Goldman, Sachs, said the pricing was in line with expectations, with Europe accounting for 45 percent of subscribers, the United States for 35 percent and Asia for 20 percent. He said it was largest of the 14 dollar-denominated bond issues the World Bank has sold since 1989.
Another global issuer yesterday was the Student Loan Marketing Association, known as Sallie Mae, which sold $3 billion in bonds backed by student loans in three parts through Merrill Lynch & Company.
Sold through a SLM Student Loan Trust 1998-1, the bonds pay a floating interest rate. The first part consisted of $1.7 billion with an average maturity of 2.49 years priced at par to yield 71 basis points more than a three-month Treasury bill, while the second part consisted of $1.2 billion in bonds with an average maturity of 7.29 years, priced to yield 76 basis points more than a three-month bill. The third part included $106 million of bonds with an average life of 9.35 years that were priced to yield 97 basis points above a three-month bill.
Treasury securities got an early lift from a surge in the dollar to a seven-week high against the Japanese yen, following news that prosecutors had raided the Bank of Japan and arrested a senior official. A strong dollar makes dollar-denominated investments like Treasury securities more attractive to foreign investors.
The 30-year bond rose 1/4, to 102 20/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction fell, to 5.94 percent from 5.95 percent.
Market participants showed some jitters over today's release of retail sales for last month, which are expected to be strong, but appeared less worried about tomorrow's report on the Producer Price Index, which is expected to show benign inflation at the manufacturing level.
The Commerce Department reported yesterday that inventories of goods at wholesale merchants declined half of a percent in January for the first time in six months.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Freddie Mac Yields" tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since November 1997. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%); SLM (NASDAQ) (55%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (55%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT; STUDENT LOAN MARKETING ASSN; MERRILL LYNCH & CO; TREASURY DEPARTMENT GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); SLM CORP (55%); BANK OF JAPAN (52%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT; STUDENT LOAN MARKETING ASSN; MERRILL LYNCH & CO; TREASURY DEPARTMENT INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES BONDS (94%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (93%); BOND ISSUES (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (90%); STUDENT LOANS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); MERCHANT BANKING (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); RETAILERS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); INVENTORIES (75%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); PRODUCER PRICES (70%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (60%); RETAIL SALES (50%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1998



265 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 12, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 775 words

HEADLINE: Tighten Belts, Suharto Tells His People, It's All Over

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS 

DATELINE: JAKARTA, Indonesia, March 11

 BODY:
President Suharto called on Indonesians today to tighten their belts, saying the rapid growth in prosperity they had enjoyed over the last 25 years was gone for good.
"We will never enjoy again an economic growth such as we have experienced for more than the past quarter of a century," he said after taking his oath of office for a seventh five-year term. It was his strongest public statement yet about the economic shock that has made almost all of Indonesia's 200 million people suddenly poorer. 
 "As an individual, as a group, some of us may lead an affluent life," said the President, whose family controls much of the nation's wealth. "But as a nation, we can no longer afford to lead an extravagant life."
As low-key and expressionless as ever, Mr. Suharto peered through his glasses at a sheaf of notes as he spoke, displaying the seemingly effortless command he has exercised over the world's fourth most-populous country for the last 32 years.
There was no inflection in his voice as he raised a rallying cry: "Let us carry the heavy burdens together on our shoulders. Let us carry the easy loads together in our hands."
Mr. Suharto told the 1,000-member People's Consultative Assembly that he fully intended to serve out his five-year term, which will end when he is 81.
"In five years' time, God willing, I shall stand on this rostrum to present the accountability of my leadership before the Indonesian people's representatives," he said.
The economic crisis of the last few months has led to unparalleled calls for change at the top. Some members of the country's fragmented and timid political opposition have raised their voices to call for his removal. In the last two weeks, demonstrations have spread through at least 30 colleges, although the students have obeyed orders to confine their marches to their campuses.
By his side as he embarks on a new term as Asia's longest-serving leader will be his longtime confidant, B. J. Habibie, who was endorsed today by the assembly as the new Vice President, in obedience to Mr. Suharto's wish.
Mr. Habibie rose from his seat, shook hands with the departing Vice President, Try Sutrisno, and switched chairs with him. Unlike the dour President, he smiled.
A man who might be described in the United States as a technology wonk, Mr. Habibie, 61, is an aeronautical engineer who has served for years as Minister of Research and Technology.
Sometimes described here as the President's seventh child, Mr. Habibie has never devoted himself to politics and does not have a significant power base of his own. Many analysts here suspect that if Mr. Suharto does not complete his term, there will be a power struggle over the succession.
The 11-day electoral session ended with an expression of nationalism by the Speaker of the House, Harmoko, who said, "International support is very important, but our dignity is more important."
This is the battle cry of the moment as Indonesia wrestles with the International Monetary Fund over the terms of its $40 billion economic restructuring plan.
A Government delegation is set to travel to Washington to meet with officials of the Fund and the United States Government. Mr. Suharto has complained that the restructuring plan he signed in January demands an open economy that is not right for Indonesia. And he still appears determined to bet the health of the economy on a risky plan to raise the value of the currency artificially by pegging it to the dollar.
As the electoral assembly doggedly performed its political ritual today, the ritual approached self-parody at times. After obeying the President's wishes in nominating Mr. Habibie, for instance, assembly leaders then formally presented Mr. Habibie's name to the President for approval.
According to the ritual, the President himself had to be vetted as fit for office. This is how The Jakarta Post described that procedure:
"Background checks by all factions found Suharto conformed to fundamental requirements of the presidential candidate. He possess an I.D. card signed by Jakarta Governor Sutiyoso, letter of good conduct from National Police Chief Gen. Dibyo Widodo, letter confirming noninvolvement in the banned Indonesian Communist Party, also from Dibyo, letter of ideological screening by the internal security agency chief from Gen. Wiranto, a letter stating he is not serving a sentence or under investigation from Chief Justice Sarwata, and a health certificate from the chief of presidential medical team, Bondan Haryono."
The report concluded, "The administrative proceedings ended with Afif stating that Suharto agreed to be renominated."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Suharto rode a Harley-Davidson with his longtime confidant, B. J. Habibie, in the sidecar in 1996 in Jakarta. Mr. Suharto began his seventh five-year term yesterday with a new Vice President, Mr. Habibie. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: INDONESIA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); 

CITY: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDONESIA; INDONESIA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (73%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); POLITICS (89%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (66%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: MYDANS, SETH; SUHARTO (PRES); HABIBIE, B J (VICE PRES) DAVID DAVIS (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1998



266 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 12, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 543 words

HEADLINE: Florida Appeals Court Returns Defeated Mayor of Miami to Post

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: MIAMI, March 11

 BODY:
A state appeals court today returned Joe Carollo to the mayor's post he lost in contested balloting four months ago and ruled there was no need to rerun the mayoral election that a judge overturned last week.
Mr. Carollo won a majority of votes from polling places in a Nov. 4 election, but Xavier L. Suarez's overwhelming advantage among absentee ballots forced a runoff between the two men, which Mr. Suarez won on Nov. 13. Mr. Carollo sued to overturn the Nov. 4 vote, claiming there had been widespread fraud among the absentee ballots. 
 Judge Thomas S. Wilson Jr. of State Circuit Court agreed and ordered a new election, leaving the city without a mayor in the meantime.
But a three-judge panel of the State Court of Appeal for the Third District threw out the absentee ballots today and said the election should be decided by the votes at polling places.
"Were we to approve a new election as the proper remedy following extensive voting fraud," the judges wrote, "we would be sending out the message that the worst that would happen in the face of voter fraud would be another election.
"We refuse to disenfranchise the more than 40,000 voters who, on Nov. 4, 1997, exercised their constitutionally guaranteed right to vote in the polling places of Miami. Unlike the right to vote, which is assured every citizen by the United States Constitution, the ability to vote by absentee ballot is a privilege."
Whether this ends the fight over the election results is unclear. After his aides cleaned out his office this afternoon, Mr. Suarez held a news conference at which he said he would sue in Federal Court, under the Voting Rights Act, in an effort to be returned to office. He also said he would seek a change in the city charter to shorten Mr. Carollo's term.
"I wanted our city to move forward," Mr. Suarez said, "I wanted our city to progress. I wanted our city to be clean and have a balanced budget."
Mr. Carollo, who could be sworn in as early as Thursday, pledged to return stability to a city that has been in turmoil for more than 18 months, struggling with a financial crisis, criminal indictments of city officials, several changes of city manager and a four-month fight over the election.
An elated Mr. Carollo met with reporters outside City Hall within an hour of the ruling.
"This is what a democracy is all about," he said exultantly. "This is why America is the greatest country in the world."
In a reference to contentious changes brought about by Mr. Suarez during his four months as mayor, Mr. Carollo said in an interview, "I will be taking cautious steps. You're not going to have the rest of the world laughing at the position of the mayor of Miami."
Mr. Carollo, a businessman who will be 43 on Thursday, was noncommittal when asked if he would retain City Manager Jose Garcia-Pedrosa, appointed two months ago by Mr. Suarez.
Mr. Suarez's lawyers had argued that the court should be bound by the will of the people, and that Mr. Suarez had won the mayoralty in the runoff.
But it was clear from the questions the judges asked at a hearing on Wednesday that they were skeptical about that argument, even though they agreed that Mr. Suarez himself had not been implicated in the fraud. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI (FLA); UNITED STATES (94%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; MAYORS; ABSENTEE VOTING; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING VOTERS & VOTING (93%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); MAYORS (92%); BALLOTS (92%); APPEALS COURTS (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTION FRAUD (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); CITIES (89%); ELECTION LAW (78%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); JUDGES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); INTERVIEWS (73%); APPROVALS (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (63%); BUDGETS (61%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%); 

PERSON: CAROLLO, JOE; WILSON, THOMAS S (JUDGE); SUAREZ, XAVIER L (MAYOR) JOE WILSON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1998



267 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 12, 1998

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 2132 words

HEADLINE: Turf;
When Banks Step Back, Middlemen Rush In

BYLINE: By TRACIE ROZHON 

 BODY:
WHEN Lorraine Altman arrived for her first meeting with a mortgage broker, she came armed. From her perusal of the Internet the night before, she knew the current interest rates. From discussions with her real estate agent, she knew what type of loan she wanted. And from talking with her accountant, she knew exactly how much she wanted to spend on the monthly mortgage payment for the new $165,000 Upper East Side one-bedroom apartment she had picked out.
The only thing this savvy 52-year-old Long Islander didn't know -- and was relying on the mortgage broker to tell her -- was where her mortgage would be coming from: a bank, a small investment group, an insurance company or a giant mortgage conglomerate. 
 Ms. Altman, a job-training executive in Manhattan, found that getting a mortgage these days is a lot different from the way it was 17 years ago, when she bought a co-op in Great Neck, N.Y. "I never even heard of a mortgage broker when I bought my last co-op," she said. "I just walked into the Dime Savings around the corner."
Times have changed. Real estate agents, brokers and bankers say that these days, home buyers are more inquiring, the old-line banks are more reluctant to lend and the mortgage brokers are a lot more reputable. In a decade, the number of mortgage brokers has tripled; the use of mortgage brokers has soared, from less than 20 percent to 52 percent. In Manhattan, the percentage is probably higher; experts estimate that mortgage brokers handle as much as 75 percent of all co-op loans.
"Ten years ago, all top 10 lenders in the country were banks," said Neil Bader, the chief executive of Skyscraper Mortgage, one of the largest mortgage brokerage companies in New York City. "Now, there's only two or three."
Not only that, but customers are also more technologically plugged in. "Consumers are more adept at using the Internet, and bankers and mortgage brokers are, too," said Barbara Kent, a lawyer at the New York State Banking Department. In response to dozens of requests from buyers, lawyers and brokers, she said, the state has proposed a new rule to allow mortgage applications to be filed over the World Wide Web. "New York is the first state to address using the Internet to get a mortgage," she said.
The Banking Department is currently gathering comments on the rule -- which contains the same protections for consumers as the old-fashioned transactions -- and said it might release the new rule sometime in April or May.
It used to be a lot simpler. In the early 1980's, when Ms. Altman was getting her first mortgage, the prospective home buyer would stroll into a bank, brandishing a contract to buy a house. The banker might even know the place. There wouldn't be too much discussion about rates -- the percentage the bank charges to make the loan. There would be lots of forms, lots of hand-shaking, an appraisal and, finally, at the closing, the bank officer would appear with a check.
The idea of a mortgage broker -- a middleman who would scout the market, find the best rate (even if it was from a lender in San Diego or Dallas), counsel and advise, and then do all the paperwork -- was almost unheard of.
In the past, mortgage brokers often took their fees from the customer -- occasionally opening themselves to criticism that they were gouging the home buyer. Now, they increasingly take their commissions from the lender. In effect, the lender offers the broker a discount to do what the bank officers once did: things like filling out applications, scanning credit reports and arranging appraisals. For his fee, the broker takes the difference between the discount rate for the loan and the retail rate. (Regardless of how the fee is figured, reputable brokers say a customer should never pay more than if he walked into a bank.)
Most of these changes have occurred since the mid-80's, when the states started registering mortgage brokers and many banks switched their focus away from residential mortgage lending. Now, customers complain that the banks have abandoned the off-the-street mortgage customer.
The change, New York Banking Department officials say, may be most noticeable in the savings banks. "Savings and loans did a tremendous mortgage business, and that definitely has lessened after the S.& L. crisis of the 80's," Mrs. Kent said. "They were encouraged to diversify, and the business that has left the savings banks has gone to mortgage brokers." (In 1987, those banks did 41 percent of the country's mortgage business; two years ago, they were down to 19 percent.)
Banks still give mortgages, but many would rather let the mortgage broker stand between them and the customer. Even if a loyal bank customer gets a mortgage through his bank, he may find that his mortgage is sold shortly afterward to a different bank or a large consolidator.
The March 2 issue of The National Mortgage News lists the top 50 mortgage lenders; only a handful can be considered old-fashioned banks in the sense that they have branches. Norwest Mortgage, based in Des Moines, is first, followed by Countrywide Home Loans of Pasadena, Calif. Chase Manhattan Mortgage of Edison, N.J., is third. In the New York region, the only old-fashioned banks listed are Marine Midland (No. 29), in Depew, N.Y., and the Long Island Savings Bank (No. 45). To tie in to the big, out-of-state lenders, a customer probably needs a broker.
"You can usually get a better deal from the mortgage brokers than from the banks; they'll generally write the business faster because they'll draw on all those sources," said R. Marshall Kneeland, a building contractor from Winsted, Conn., who used to be a real estate agent. Five years ago, when he was selling houses, he said, many people thought of mortgage brokers as "kind of slimy specimens who took out small ads in the classifieds, like: 'Refused by your bank? Come see us.' "
Now, he said, mortgage brokers are "taking out giant billboards on I-91."
Mr. Kneeland, who is currently using a mortgage broker to help him shop for his own mortgage, pointed out that many borrowers don't keep track of who holds their mortgages. "It might be the bank you signed up with -- or it might be the ABC Finance Company in Albuquerque," he said. "You might as well go for the best deal."
Getting the best deal has become an obsession for many of today's home buyers, some of whom are comparison shopping on the Internet, a tool that wasn't even available 10 years ago. Refinancing, which allows borrowers to better the interest rates they got in the past, now makes up 55 percent of today's mortgage business.
All of this points to an increasingly investigative shopper. Yet, even the best informed home buyer may need help with the paperwork involved in applying. That's where a broker -- or even the Internet -- can help.
Richard Hodos, a commercial real estate broker, figured there would be no snags in applying for a $300,000 loan to buy a huge 1,000-square-foot one-bedroom apartment in an elegant prewar co-op building in Greenwich Village. After all, he was putting up 40 percent of the $499,000 price.
But despite Mr. Hodos's sterling credit report, Bruce G. Maasbach, the broker at Skyscraper Mortgage, was concerned about two recent credit inquiries from banks. "They want to make sure you're not taking out any other mortgages on different properties," he explained. So Mr. Hodos, an enthusiastic and affable man of 37, gave reasons for the credit inquiries, including his request to one credit card company for an increased limit this past Christmas.
AT their first face-to-face meeting, Mr. Maasbach -- who had drafted a pile of forms after a brief telephone interview -- laid out for Mr. Hodos what he would be charged, above and beyond the monthly payment and the up-front money that would be required, including an application fee of $290, a credit check for $10 and the appraisal fee of $275.
By the end of the session, Mr. Hodos had filled out all the paperwork and had a tentative rate -- 7 3/8 percent, from the Astoria Federal Savings and Loan Association in Lake Success, N.Y. -- and a tentative monthly payment: $2,072.
These days, the banks rely on brokers like Mr. Maasbach and Elise Leve Wittenberg at Manhattan Mortgage, who met with Ms. Altman, to funnel clients and paperwork to them. But it wasn't always that way. In fact, before the mid-1980's, the banks didn't usually deal with mortgage brokers at all.
When the business of mortgage brokering began, "we were the lender of the last resort," said Tuck Marshall, who will become the president of the National Association of Mortgage Brokers in June. He continued: "The mortgage broker helped you clean up your credit and found you a loan -- but not through a bank. It was seen as slightly shady business."
From 1990 to the present, there was an even greater shift, away from commercial and savings banks to mega-lenders like Countrywide, which last year lent $45 billion. "No one knows these big mortgage conglomerates' names -- they don't even have branches," Mr. Bader said. "They're using the mortgage brokers as conduits."
This all gets a bit heady for a consumer who wants to research the rates on his own, and confusing for those who are not yet ready to spend their spare time hunkered down over a computer keyboard, trying to surf the Web.
L. Daniel Rawitch is the chief executive of Finet, the parent company of I Qualify, a mortgage brokerage company on the Internet. Mr. Rawitch says his company (at www.iqualify.com) will give a preliminary approval in six minutes, based on a quick, fill-in-the blanks application, to prospective homeowners for only $39. If the applicant gets the preliminary approval, he or she can take the results to any lender, the company says, or use Monument Mortgage, the mortgage company Finet also owns.
The Web site may be helpful in spotting weak areas; applicants may be told to explain late payments on credit cards, for instance. After a client pays a fee, I Qualify will also mail him the current percentage rate for a mortgage and the monthly payment. But Manhattanites beware: the company does not handle loans on co-ops. And, as it states in bold type, "This is not a commitment to lend."
To Mr. Rawitch and his competitors, the Internet is the wave of the future. Others are not so sure.
"The Internet isn't there yet," said Mark E. Zimmerman, a real estate lawyer in Manhattan. "People want personal service, plain and simple. The banks are really missing the boat."
Mr. Bader, whose mortgage brokerage company has three Web sites, grumbled, "The Internet will be there for my children."
Still, there are plenty of people already betting that Mr. Zimmerman and Mr. Bader are wrong.
 
Defining the Terms
FOR the novice searching for a mortgage, here are a few terms to throw around so you can sound like a pro.
ADJUSTABLE RATE MORTGAGE -- Often called an ARM in the ads, it means that the interest rate changes at specified intervals; for example, "10/1" means the rate will stay fixed for 10 years, then will change each year for the duration of the mortgage.
LIFE CAP -- The limit on the interest rate on an adjustable rate loan.
POINTS -- A one-time charge by a lender: each point equals 1 percent of the loan amount.
CLOSING COSTS -- Costs incurred in buying real estate, which can include points, attorney's fees, the cost of a lien search, filing fees and more.
LOAN COMMITMENT -- An agreement to lend. Synonym: Loan approval.
REFINANCE, OR REFI -- Money borrowed by the owner of real estate to replace an existing loan on the same real estate. TRACIE ROZHON
 
Proceed With Caution
 ALTHOUGH a lot of the uncertainty when dealing with a mortgage broker is gone -- New York State and the surrounding states have some of the toughest rules around -- the smart home buyer always comes to the first meeting well prepared.
Get a recommendation from a friend or colleague who has used a good broker in the past. Failing that, get several names from your real estate broker.
Check newspapers or the Internet to learn the most current rates for the kind of mortgage you want. Last month, the New York State Banking Department began posting the latest interest rates for mortgages on the World Wide Web, at www.banking.state.ny.us. (Look under the section called Interest Rate Surveys.) For the Web-challenged, hard copies of the reports can be obtained from (800) 518-8866.
Remember to ask the mortgage broker to go over every one of the charges you will have to pay. You shouldn't pay more for a mortgage through a broker -- including all preparation costs -- than you would pay if you walked in to a bank. (Brokers say you will often pay less, because of their ability to comparison shop.) TRACIE ROZHON

GRAPHIC: Illustrations (Illustrations by Leslie Cober-Gentry)(pgs. F1 & F8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: DIME SAVINGS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; MORTGAGES; BROKERS AND BROKERAGE FIRMS MORTGAGE BROKERS (92%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (84%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EXECUTIVES (68%); CONSUMER LAW (66%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (61%); 

PERSON: ROZHON, TRACIE LORRAINE ALTMAN (74%); BARBARA KENT (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1998



268 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 12, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 124 words

HEADLINE: METRO NEWS BRIEFS: NEW JERSEY;
Trenton Gets Grant For Urban Renewal

DATELINE: TRENTON

 BODY:
Federal housing officials awarded a $3.8 million grant to Trenton yesterday to help turn a 212-acre area of abandoned buildings and deteriorating homes into a residential neighborhood of single-family houses. 
 The grant, from the Department of Housing and Urban Development, will be used to buy land and improve housing stock in Trenton's Canal Banks section, a half-mile north of downtown, said Christine Soucy, a spokeswoman for the department's Newark office. About 250 homes will be built or renovated in the neighborhood and half will be set aside for low-income residents, Ms. Soucy said. She added that the construction was expected to increase the rate of homeownership in the area to 50 percent from 30 percent.

 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: TRENTON'S CANAL BANKS (83%); DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING&URBAN DEVELOPMENT (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRENTON'S CANAL BANKS (83%); DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING&URBAN DEVELOPMENT (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON (NJ); UNITED STATES (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; FINANCES GRANTS & GIFTS (90%); CITIES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); HOMEOWNERSHIP RATES (88%); REAL ESTATE (88%); BUILDING RENOVATION (88%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (88%); POOR POPULATION (88%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (70%); 

PERSON: CHRISTINE SOUCY (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1998



269 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 12, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 117 words

HEADLINE: What's Trendy on Campus? Adjunct Faculty and Easy A's

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re "Why Colleges Shower Students With A's," Brent Staples's March 8 Editorial Observer: While grade inflation may de-emphasize grade point averages, it certainly does not devalue diplomas themselves. It has only changed the emphasis of the college experience. 
 At Yale, a generous grading policy has encouraged students to take academic risks and to devote themselves to real-world activities outside the classroom. A demonstrated commitment to public health in New Haven is now more important to medical school admissions officers than earning high scores in the cutthroat memorization game in organic chemistry class.
 
HERB ALLEN
Bloomsburg, Pa., March 8, 1998

GRAPHIC: Illustration (Illustrations by Luba Lukova)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (54%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (54%); 

CITY: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (54%); CONNECTICUT, USA (54%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; GRADING OF STUDENTS COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); GRADES & GRADING (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); GRADE INFLATION (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (86%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (86%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (51%); CHEMISTRY (50%); 

PERSON: ALLEN, HERB MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1998



270 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 12, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 121 words

HEADLINE: What's Trendy on Campus? Adjunct Faculty and Easy A's;
Quality Over Quantity

 BODY:

To the Editor;
Having just finished my midterm grading, issuing 24 D's and F's out of a class of 50 in a music appreciation course, I read with interest Brent Staples's March 8 Editorial Observer on grade inflation. It seems that higher education has become an entitlement rather than a privilege. Universities cater to this notion, seeking to boost admissions numbers with little regard to the quality of the students. If universities wish to adopt the practices of the business world, they cannot do it by half measures; they must concern themselves with quality as well as quantity.
 
DAVID CURTIN
Platteville, Wis., March 8, 1998
 
The writer is professor of piano, University of Wisconsin at Platteville.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (56%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (56%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; GRADING OF STUDENTS; MUSIC COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GRADE INFLATION (88%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (87%); WRITERS (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

PERSON: CURTIN, DAVID (PROF); STAPLES, BRENT

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1998



271 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 12, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 130 words

HEADLINE: What's Trendy on Campus? Adjunct Faculty and Easy A's;
Grades and Ratings

 BODY:

To the Editor:
I take exception to a number of statements Brent Staples makes in his March 8 Editorial Observer on grade inflation. As an associate dean for three years, I was responsible for all course-related issues, including grades. Rather than "hound" faculty to give high grades, we regularly told faculty with inflated grade distributions to lower them in the future. Grade inflation was more of a problem with full-time faculty than with adjuncts. I have never heard of an instance where a student "threatened" a faculty member for being given a low grade. High teacher ratings and easy grades did not necessarily correlate.
 
SHELDON EPSTEIN
South Orange, N.J., March 9, 1998
 
The writer is interim dean of the School of Business, Seton Hall University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (65%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (65%); 

COMPANY: SETON HALL UNIVERSITY SETON HALL UNIVERSITY (83%); SETON HALL UNIVERSITY (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: SETON HALL UNIVERSITY SETON HALL UNIVERSITY (83%); SETON HALL UNIVERSITY (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (65%); NEW JERSEY, USA (65%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; GRADING OF STUDENTS COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); GRADE INFLATION (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (88%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (87%); WRITERS (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); 

PERSON: EPSTEIN, SHELDON; STAPLES, BRENT

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1998



272 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 12, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 88 words

HEADLINE: What's Trendy on Campus? Adjunct Faculty and Easy A's;
Report the Median

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Brent Staples, in his March 8 Editorial Observer, ignores a simple solution to grade inflation. Posting the median grade received in every class right next to the grade received shows the relative worth of an A in any given class. Dartmouth College, which I attend, does this. A prudent next step would be computing for every student a "difficulty grade point average," which would be computed the same way G.P.A.'s are, except using median grades.
 
DAVID SCHLEICHER
Hanover, N.H., March 8, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (86%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (86%); 

COMPANY: DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (58%); DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (58%); DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (86%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (86%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; GRADING OF STUDENTS COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); GRADE INFLATION (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (86%); GRADES & GRADING (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); 

PERSON: SCHLEICHER, DAVID; STAPLES, BRENT

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1998



273 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 12, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 19; Column 1; Classified

LENGTH: 202 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
MILLIRON, SHEILA M.

 BODY:
MILLIRON-Sheila M., 55. Died Tuesday evening at home. Born October 29, 1942 in New York City, daughter of late Dr. William and Anne O'Dea Horan. Graduate St. Mary's High School, Manhasset, NY. Received B.A. in Home Economics, Marywood University in Scranton, Pennsylvania. Taught school in Syosset, New York, and Jersey City, NJ. Substitute taught in Oakland, New Jersey. Active in family and civic duties including Our Lady of Perpetual Help. Moved to Upper St. Clair, PA., where she was a collector of stuffed animals and dolls. She is survived by her husband of over 21 years, William; a son Stephen Materazzi Jr., Nashville, TN, a daughter Kathryn Materazzi, Carbondale, PA, a step-son Mark Milliron, Marietta, GA, and 4 sisters; Maureen Horan, Poughkeepsie, NY, Mrs. Jeanne Swick, Highland Mills, NY, Mrs. Anita Germano, Clifton, VA., & Mrs. Marian Kropa, Clarks Summit, PA, a grandchild & 12 nephews and nieces. Funeral Sat., Jennings-Calvey Funeral Home, Clarks Summit, PA., with a Mass at 11:00AM, Our Lady of the Snow's Church. Visitation Friday, 2-4, 7-9 PM. Contributions Mercy Hospice, 746 Jefferson Ave, Scranton, PA. 18501 or The American Cancer Society, 700 James Way, Scranton, PA. 18510.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Paid Death Notice

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (58%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (68%); 

CITY: SCRANTON, PA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (58%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (58%); AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY (55%); AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY (55%); AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (68%); SCRANTON, PA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (97%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); HOSPICE (73%); CANCER (65%); 

PERSON: MILLIRON, SHEILA M.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1998



274 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 13, 1998

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Page 32; Column 3; Leisure/Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE ART

BYLINE: By Carol Vogel 

 BODY:

Economic Projection
 As the different branches of the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum develop, so do their collections.
On Saturday, the Deutsche Guggenheim Berlin, the museum's 7,000-square-foot space on the ground floor of the newly restored Berlin headquarters of Deutsche Bank, unveiled "The Swimmer in the Econo-mist," a major new work by the Pop artist James Rosenquist. It is the museum's first site-specific commission and will be on view there through June 14. 
 "The Swimmer" is a monumental, billboardlike suite of three paintings; each canvas is 11 1/2 feet high, with one 20 feet wide, another 48 feet wide and the third 90 feet wide.
The work has been compared to the artist's monumental "F-111" (1964-65), a 10-by-86-foot painting that was conceived as a reaction against military power and consumer culture. It was acquired by the Museum of Modern Art two years ago.
"The Swimmer in Econo-mist" refers specifically to industry and consumerism as well as to the turbulent nature of today's economy. The work was financed by Deutsche Bank, but the bank and the museum still haven't determined who owns it, said Lisa Dennison, the Guggenheim's deputy director and chief curator. When the Berlin branch opened, with financial backing from Deutsche Bank, the Guggenheim said that artworks purchased on commission would be jointly owned by the museum and the bank.
Ms. Dennison said that the museum had chosen the artist, and that one panel of the work had been exhibited in October at the opening of the Guggenheim branch in Bilbao, Spain. The Berlin branch opened in November on the Unter den Linden near the Brandenburg Gate.
"Rosenquist is a major artist of the 1960's who doesn't have a large presence in our collection," she said, adding that the Guggenheim had bought another painting by Mr. Rosenquist, "Flamingo Capsule." This brightly colored work from 1970, a meditation on space exploration, was purchased specifically for the collection at Bilbao, where crowds are still waiting hours to visit the five-month-old building.
 
The Short List
The acquisition wasn't the only announcement from the Guggenheim this week. It has also released the short list for its Hugo Boss Prize.
This prize, a $50,000 award named after its sponsor, the German menswear company, is given every two years in recognition of an artist's entire body of work that represents "either a major achievement or a significant development in contemporary art," Ms. Dennison said.
The Hugo Boss Award does not stipulate the artist's nationality, unlike the Turner Prize, given by the Tate Gallery in London only to British artists. Two years ago, Matthew Barney, the American installation artist, was the first Boss winner.
Artists are chosen by an international jury that spends days reviewing slides, videos and other documentation.
This year the short list includes several installation and performance artists but no painters. It is noticeably balanced between men and women, with several nationalities and different stages of careers represented. By far the best known is Douglas Gordon, the Conceptual artist who was the 1996 Turner winner. Another recognizable name, especially in this country, is Lorna Simpson, the American photographer and filmmaker who has had solo shows at the Museum of Modern Art, the Museum of Contemporary Art in Chicago and the Contemporary Arts Museum in Houston.
Other nominees are Huang Yong Ping, a Chinese installation artist whose work has been exhibited throughout Japan and at the New Museum of Contemporary Art in SoHo; William Kentridge, a South African filmmaker who received much attention at Documenta X in Kassel, Germany, last summer and whose work has just been seen at the Drawing Center in SoHo; Lee Bul, a South Korean installation and performance artist whose work was on view at the Museum of Modern Art, and Pipilotti Rist, a Swiss video artist whose work has been shown throughout Europe and at the Museum of Contemporary Art in Chicago.
An exhibition of works by these artists will be on view at the Guggenheim's branch in SoHo from June 24 through Sept. 20. The winner will be announced in July.
 
Cincinnati Choice
Zaha Hadid, the Iraqi-born London architect, will become the first woman to design an American museum.
Ms. Hadid was selected to design a 65,000-square-foot, $25 million building for the Contemporary Arts Center in Cincinnati. She has designed buildings in Japan and Germany.
The new building will be on the northwest corner of Sixth and Walnut Streets in the heart of Cincinnati's Backstage Entertainment District and will be more than three times the size of the center's current site at 115 East Fifth Street. Ms. Hadid was chosen from 97 architects from 4 continents by a jury of trustees and architects.
The other finalists were Bernard Tschumi, the dean of the Graduate School of Architecture, Planning and Preservation at Columbia University, and Daniel Libeskind, the Polish-born architect who received much attention for his design of an ultra-modern building, resembling a series of tumbling boxes, that is to be constructed between two ornate Victorian palaces that make up the Victoria and Albert Museum in London.
Charles Desmarais, director of the Contemporary Arts Center, said it had not decided what it would do with the old site, which it leases. It may rent it out or may use it as an auxiliary space. The center said it was hoping to have its new building completed by late 2001 or early 2002.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A detail from James Rosenquist's "Swimmer in the Econo-mist," at the Deutsche Guggenheim Berlin. (Lee Ewing/Deutsche Guggenheim Berlin)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (85%); DBK (FRA) (85%); DBK (BIT) (85%); DBETN (JSE) (85%); DBA (ASX) (85%); DB (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (85%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (85%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (85%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (53%); 

STATE: BASQUE COUNTRY, SPAIN (90%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (94%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: GUGGENHEIM, SOLOMON R, MUSEUM (NYC); DEUTSCHE GUGGENHEIM BERLIN (MUSEUM); CONTEMPORARY ARTS CENTER (CINCINNATI) DEUTSCHE BANK AG (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: GUGGENHEIM, SOLOMON R, MUSEUM (NYC); DEUTSCHE GUGGENHEIM BERLIN (MUSEUM); CONTEMPORARY ARTS CENTER (CINCINNATI)

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (53%); BASQUE COUNTRY, SPAIN (90%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (94%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: ART; MUSEUMS; AWARDS, DECORATIONS AND HONORS; HUGO BOSS AWARD MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); FASHION DESIGNERS (89%); BANK BRANCHES (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); PAINTING (78%); SPACE INDUSTRY (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (76%); SPACE EXPLORATION (72%); MEN'S CLOTHING (50%); 

PERSON: VOGEL, CAROL; ROSENQUIST, JAMES; HADID, ZAHA ZAHA HADID (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1998



275 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 13, 1998

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Page 33; Column 5; Leisure/Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: ART REVIEW;
The Puzzling Road Maps Of a Philosopher's Mind

BYLINE: By HOLLAND COTTER 

 BODY:
Among many art trends hovering in the air is an interest in visual systems, from the exhaustive cosmologies of the Buddhist mandalas seen at the Asia Society last fall, to the computer-generated flow charts with which Peter Halley recently papered a gallery at the Museum of Modern Art. A gallery show in SoHo by Matt Mullican (at Brooke Alexander through March 28) follows a similar thread.
Within this context, the exhibition titled "Rudolf Steiner: Blackboard Drawings, 1919-1924," at Peter Blum Gallery, makes sense. Steiner, who died in 1925, was a social philosopher, mystic and educator. He helped establish the Theosophical movement in Germany but later developed his own "spiritual science," which explained the material and spiritual worlds as an array of interactive links and correspondences. 
 Steiner wasn't a professional artist; he dabbled in painting, to insipid effect. But he was a tireless lecturer and drew diagrams in colored chalk on slate blackboards as he talked. In 1919, one of his followers, Emma Stolle, hit on the idea of preserving the drawings by covering the slate with sheets of black paper before lectures began. She then dated the sheets and stored them away.
The results were rarely seen publicly until 1990. The show of 38 works at Blum, on loan from the Rudolf Steiner archive in Dornach, Switzerland, and originally organized by Lawrence Rindler for an exhibition at the Berkeley Museum of Art in California, is the first appearance of the work in the United States.
What Steiner would have thought of submitting his pedagogical aids to sustained scrutiny is a question. Seen apart from his lectures, their near-abstract forms, symbolic colors (which Steiner viewed as emanations of spiritual beings of an earlier age), often ponderous titles ("Evil," "Why we are on earth," "Hegel and Schopenhauer") and jottings on such diverse subjects as medicine and economics, look hopelessly arcane.
Yet even for the noninitiate, which means most of us, the drawings hold attractions. Some appear straightforwardly illustrative. In a lecture dated Dec. 4, 1920, for example, Steiner spoke of Hegel's vision of the cosmos as a "spider's web of concepts," and he underscored the idea with a fleet, improvised sketch of a connect-the-dots constellation of white chalk lines set against scribbled orange strokes.
In other cases the relation of image to text seems more oblique. In one lecture, Steiner's reference to what he calls reflective elements in the human organism is accompanied by two ovoid forms, executed with the flat side of the chalk, suggesting luminous curtainlike parachutes. Elsewhere, the phrase "a kind of breathing in the light" finds its visual equivalent in a nebulous burst of hair-fine strokes in coral and gold.
Some of the sparest images are the most evocative. The drawing titled "Devoted Attention to the Least Thing" consists of nothing more than a tidy lineup of two circles, a cube, an upright pole and a mantra-like inscription ("In me is God, I am in God"). And another, titled "The Realm of Angels," is just a small white circle intersected by a curving two-toned line whose yellow half points up and green half points down.
Occult stuff-and-nonsense? Mondrian, Kandinsky and a host of other early modernist artists apparently didn't think so. Nor did a more recent figure like Joseph Beuys, who produced his own blackboard drawings on the Steiner model and was particularly absorbed in the social and ethical implications of Steiner's thought. (Drawings by Beuys are on view at CRG Gallery in SoHo through tomorrow.)
But these days any talk about "the spiritual in art" tends to make everyone squirm a little. And Beuys, with his roots deep in German Romanticism, has always met with an uneasy reception in this country. (A panel discussion titled "Beuys and Spirituality" held at the New School three years ago elicited some virulent anti-Beuysian sentiments from its American participants.)
And yet the impulse to seek a content in art that amounts to something beyond yet another new twist on yesterday's new twist continues to find adherents. The programmatic philosophy that spawned Steiner's blackboard drawings may attract a limited audience. But the drawings themselves, with their modest formal beauties tied to an ambitious vision, offer a kind of art -- an uncool, un-Duchampian esthetic, let's call it, one often associated with "outsider art" today -- that will have its appeal.
"Rudolf Steiner: Blackboard Drawings, 1919-1924" remains at the Peter Blum Gallery, 99 Wooster Street, SoHo, through March 21.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A 1923 blackboard drawing by Rudolf Steiner, at Peter Blum Gallery. (Peter Blum Gallery)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (74%); GERMANY (71%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (74%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: THE ASIA SOCIETY (84%); THE ASIA SOCIETY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: THE ASIA SOCIETY (84%); THE ASIA SOCIETY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (74%); GERMANY (71%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%); CALIFORNIA, USA (74%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: ART; REVIEWS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); TRENDS (90%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); RELIGION (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (77%); 

PERSON: STEINER, RUDOLF (1861-1925); COTTER, HOLLAND RUDOLF STEINER (94%); JOSEPH BEUYS (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1998



276 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 13, 1998

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Page 14; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 1533 words

HEADLINE: AT THE MOVIES

BYLINE: By Bernard Weinraub 

DATELINE: HOLLYWOOD, March 12

 BODY:

From Fantasy To Opening Day
Eight years ago, Richard Kwietniowski, a British filmmaker, visited a bookstore and bought a new novel, "Love and Death on Long Island," by Gilbert Adair.
"I read a review that said it was at a certain level about the power of cinema, and I was drawn to it immediately," said Mr. Kwietniowski (kuh-SEE-et-nee-ahv-skee). "That night I gave it a little glance and didn't put it down until the last page. I was already fantasizing about turning it into a film." 
 The fantasy has turned into a highly acclaimed reality. The film, written and directed by Mr. Kwietniowski (above), a 40-year-old television director and independent filmmaker, opened in New York and Los Angeles last Friday to some of the best reviews in months; it is opening in other cities today. It stars John Hurt, the veteran British actor, as a reclusive widower and "man of letters" who sees an American teen-age movie by accident and becomes obsessed with the star of the film, played by Jason Priestley, best known for the Fox television series "Beverly Hills 90210." The Hurt character flies to Long Island to meet the teen-age star.
Although the comedy, which cost about $4 million, may have overtones of "Death in Venice" and "Lolita," it's also about the power of film. "I loved the idea of someone like the John Hurt character going to the cinema for the first time in 20 years and being completely struck by a bolt from the blue which will drastically alter everything about his existence," Mr. Kwietniowski said. "I have a certain investment in believing that can and does happen."
The film is also about obsession. "It's about someone who's obsessed with probably the least appropriate person in the world," he said.
Although Mr. Kwietniowski spent several weeks traveling around Long Island for the film, the movie's beach scenes, set in the Hamptons, were shot in Nova Scotia, Canada, because it was cheaper. "I took a lot of photos of Nova Scotia and showed it to Long Islanders, and they gave me license," he said. "I was also challenged by the idea of creating a Long Island rather than remaining enslaved to the real one. I'm not showing a definitive version of Long Island. I'm showing a Long Island that's a little quirky."
Although he's unknown in the United States, Mr. Kwietniowksi got his first choices as stars of the film, which received financing from companies in Britain, Canada and Italy. After reading the script, Mr. Hurt immediately agreed to appear. To Mr. Hurt, the film is about "the passionate pursuit of beauty, in a place where one would not expect to find it, leading to a discovery of love and life."
Mr. Kwietniowski flew to Los Angeles to seek out Mr. Priestley, who took the part largely because the script was so different from formulaic movies he is offered. "We're using Jason's status as a heartthrob, Mr. Kwietniowksi said, but the film allows him to be playful with that image. He's a very good sport."
The filmmaker said he had been receiving new scripts from Hollywood but was unsure about his next project. "Nobody is terribly interested in me in Britain," he said. "I'm a bit of a square peg in a round hole. When we tried to get the film off the ground, we were told it was too ambitious. The British are a bit nervous about obsession and desire. Most British films look inward towards the past or are about some economic situation. They don't build bridges across oceans and engage other cultures."
His outsider status in Britain, Mr. Kwietniowski said, is partly because of his upbringing. Although he was born in London, his father, Leszek, a violinist, was Polish-born.
"I grew up with a slightly detached relationship to British culture," Mr. Kwietniowksi said. "I still don't play cricket."
 
Obsession, Again
 Wendy Wasserstein has spent her career in the theater, but this Pulitzer Prize-winning author of "The Heidi Chronicles" and other plays has long had a not-so-secret obsession: the screenplay adaptation of the Stephen McAuley novel "The Object of My Affection."
"I've been working on it for the last 10 years, off and on; I've gone back to it again 10 times," Ms. Wasserstein (above) said. "Barry Diller a few years ago said that someday someone will make that movie, and I'll have nothing to do for the rest of my life."
Someone finally made the movie.
The comedy-drama, to be released on April 17 by 20th Century Fox, was directed by Nicholas Hytner ("The Madness of King George" and "The Crucible") and is set in New York. The film is a contemporary love story about the blurred lines separating love, sex and friendship, starring Jennifer Aniston as a social worker who falls in love with a gay teacher played by Paul Rudd.
What consumed Ms. Wasserstein about the story? "It was actually in a way a girl falling in love with the wrong guy," she said. And then she laughed. "It had nothing to do with my own experience."
Ms. Wasserstein said: "Falling in love with the wrong guy is a habit of mine. And what really moved me about this story was that it was ultimately about friendship and the nature of friendship as well as romantic friendship. The love between a straight woman and a gay man also interested me."
Ms. Wasserstein has written several unproduced screenplays, and adapted "The Heidi Chronicles" as a made-for-television movie starring Jamie Curtis. She has also written for PBS. But her foray into making a studio film took some adjustment.
"The big difference is you can always fix a play, especially a comedy that's playing before an audience," she said. "You're trained to go home and rewrite. You figure out the texture of what's comedic in front of an audience. In films, you have no audience response."
But Ms. Wasserstein said that the experience of writing the script was almost more Broadway than Hollywood. She worked closely on revisions with Laurence Mark, the producer, and with Mr. Hytner, the British theatrical director who staged "Miss Saigon" and the National Theater production of "Carousel," which won five Tony Awards in 1994. "It was very much a collaboration, very much like putting on a play," she said. But still, she said, "screenwriting is very spare."
"In a play two people can sit down and say how unhappy they are, and they can talk for two hours with each one saying, 'I'm more unhappy than you,' and the other saying, 'Yeah, but let me tell you about my mother' " she said. "In a film, you literally have to move from scene to scene, you have to pare everything down. The emphasis is on telling the story, moving it forward."
"What I learned is that you can learn something about a character in a film by going in on them with a camera," she said. "Nick would always say, 'We can show this; you don't have to say it.' I tend to get too chatty." (She is now starting work on a new play.)
Ms. Wasserstein said the Hollywood system of hiring writers to rewrite each other -- which did not happen with this movie -- puzzled her. "It happens all the time: they bring in one writer because he's funny and another writer because she's good on character and a third writer because the star wants him," Ms. Wasserstein said. "In a play, there's the voice of one author. You don't bring in Edward Albee to fix an Arthur Miller play."
 
Best Supporting Joke
Bruce Vilanch is happy. A top comedy writer who helps write the Oscar show, Mr. Vilanch says this year's 70th Annual Academy Awards, on March 23 at 9 P.M. on ABC, will inevitably lure a bigger television audience than last year's show.
"Last year it was, let's face it, Tom Cruise and a bunch of other people," said Mr. Vilanch (above), a cherubic fellow who wears pink-rimmed spectacles and has a perennial halo of out-of-control hair. "People hadn't heard of Brenda Blethyn or Geoffrey Rush. These were not box office names and their faces were unrecognizable. Many people hadn't seen the movies that were nominated. This year, who hasn't seen 'Titanic'? And all the other films are big hits. And you have stars who were nominated -- Nicholson, Hoffman, Robin Williams, Duvall, Helen Hunt, Julie Christie, Burt Reynolds. It's just much more fun."
The jokes by the master of ceremonies, Billy Crystal, as well as the patter by the presenters -- often the most laborious moments at the Oscars -- are, of course, carefully written by about a dozen writers.
Few subjects are considered off-limits for the Oscar show, Mr. Vilanch said. But he added: "There's stuff that you can do on Leno or Letterman that's inappropriate for the Oscars. It is, after all, an awards ceremony, and for many people the pinnacle of their careers. What you say at the Academy Awards can stay with you for the rest of your life. It never leaves you. Just ask Sally Field." (When Ms. Field picked up her Oscar in 1984 as best actress for "Places in the Heart," her acceptance speech included these lines: "I can't deny the fact you like me. Right now, you like me!")
During the show, Mr. Vilanch said, the writers are busily revising material, largely because the unpredictable -- remember Jack Palance's push-ups? -- often takes place. "We try to stay sober until the show is over," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: LOVE AND DEATH ON LONG ISLAND (MOVIE); OBJECT OF MY AFFECTION, THE (MOVIE)

TICKER: FOX (NYSE) (68%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (90%); UNITED STATES (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (73%); ITALY (54%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NOVA SCOTIA, CANADA (66%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (90%); UNITED STATES (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (73%); ITALY (54%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NOVA SCOTIA, CANADA (66%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; ACADEMY AWARDS (OSCARS); COMEDY AND HUMOR VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); FILM (90%); BOOKSTORES (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (74%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (74%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); MOVIE FILMING (58%); 

PERSON: KWIETNIOWSKI, RICHARD; ADAIR, GILBERT; PRIESTLEY, JASON; HURT, JOHN; WASSERSTEIN, WENDY; MCAULEY, STEPHEN; ANISTON, JENNIFER; RUDD, PAUL; VILANCH, BRUCE; WEINRAUB, BERNARD JENNIFER ANISTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1998



277 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 13, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 140 words

HEADLINE: Indian Success Story

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Your March 8 front-page article "New Prosperity Brings New Conflict to Indian Country" implies that every gain by Indians is a non-Indian loss. For an example of how Indians and other Americans can prosper together, consider the Mississippi Band of Choctaws. 
 During two decades of solid business growth (the Silver Star Resort and Casino is their latest success), the Choctaws have transformed Neshoba County, once infamous for poverty and racial violence, into an economic hothouse and model of interracial accord. Now one of the five largest employers in Mississippi, the Choctaws have created more jobs for non-Indians than for themselves. The tribe's members believe that economic progress has helped, rather than hurt, their cultural integrity.
 
ROBERT H. WHITE
Lawrenceville, N.J., March 9, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MISSISSIPPI, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STAR RESORT&CASINO (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: STAR RESORT&CASINO (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INDIANS, AMERICAN LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); RACE & RACISM (88%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (88%); JOB CREATION (86%); RESORTS (84%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); 

PERSON: WHITE, ROBERT H

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1998



278 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 13, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 39 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:
POUND RALLIES. The British pound rose for the third day on speculation that the Bank of England might soon raise interest rates to limit inflation. In New York sterling cost $1.6576, up from $1.6483 and the highest in seven weeks.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks British Pounds to the Dollar, since September 1996. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (58%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (59%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF ENGLAND BANK OF ENGLAND (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF ENGLAND

GEOGRAPHIC: GREAT BRITAIN; UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (59%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BRITISH POUND (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); TRENDS (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1998



279 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 13, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 170 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Hoechst Predicts No Gain in Profits

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, March 12

 BODY:
The chairman of Hoechst A.G., the German chemical company, said today that the company does not expect profits to increase this year, partly because of the Asian financial crisis.
Hoechst, which has seen business slow down during the first two months, faces a difficult year and foresees operating profits at "the same level as last year," said its chairman, Jurgen Dormann. 
 Last month, Hoechst reported an operating profit of 3.65 billion marks ($2.03 billion) for last year, down from 4.01 billion marks in 1996.
Hoechst will continue a reorganization, spinning off industrial chemical units into subsidiaries, Mr. Dormann said. It will also focus on such growing markets as pharmaceuticals, fertilizers, herbicides and immunizations, he said.
Ten percent of Hoechst shares are now owned by North Americans, up from 6 percent in September 1997, the company said. Hoechst made its debut on the New York Stock Exchange six months ago. The American depository receipts fell $2.1875 each today, to $38.6875.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SNY (NYSE) (91%); SANF (BIT) (91%); SAN (PAR) (91%); GCVRZ (NASDAQ) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (91%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (88%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (67%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (73%); 

COMPANY: HOECHST AG SANOFI SA (91%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOECHST AG

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (88%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (67%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (73%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES CHEMICALS (90%); CHEMICALS MFG (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); FERTILIZERS (88%); COMPANY PROFITS (88%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (88%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (85%); HERBICIDES (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (66%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (66%); 

PERSON: DORMANN, JURGEN JOSEPH C PAPA (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1998



280 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 13, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 352 words

HEADLINE: Consumers Lived It Up In January And February

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 12

 BODY:
Consumer spending began the year at a healthy pace after a disappointing holiday shopping season, the Government's latest data indicated today.
The Commerce Department said that retail sales rose half a percent in February, as unseasonably warm weather brought shoppers out early to buy spring clothes and garden supplies. And it revised January's sales data upward to show a gain of 1 percent, not the increase of only one-tenth of 1 percent that had been reported originally. 
 The January gain was the biggest in six months.
"It's a very strong report that says consumers are feeling pretty good," said Cynthia Latta, an economist with DRI-McGraw Hill of Lexington, Mass.
Most economists believe economic growth will slow significantly this year because of the effect of the Asian economic crisis. That expected weakness has not yet been felt widely, however. The Government reported last week, for instance, that the unemployment rate fell in February to 4.6 percent, returning to a 24-year low.
In a separate report today, the Labor Department said that new claims for unemployment benefits fell by 7,000 last week, to 298,000, a sign of continued strength in the labor market. The four-week average of claims, a less volatile measure, was 308,000, down 1,000 from the week earlier.
The February retail sales report showed that sales outside the auto sector rose six-tenths of 1 percent. That followed a revised 1.3 percent surge in January, the biggest gain in almost two years.
Auto sales alone grew one-tenth of 1 percent in February after having declined two-tenths of 1 percent in January.
The warm weather in most parts of the country, caused by the climate-altering phenomenon El Nino, spurred strong demand for spring clothing, garden supplies and other hardware products. Sales at department stores and specialty stores rose a strong 1.3 percent on the heels of a 2.1 percent increase in January.Sales at service stations were down 1.1 percent, the biggest decline for any major category last month, reflecting a drop in gasoline prices because of an abundant world oil supply.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Retail Sales"
Chart shows total retail sales in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted since September 1996 through February 1998. (Source: Commerce Department)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) DRI/MCGRAW-HILL (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SALES; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE RETAIL SALES (91%); SALES FIGURES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RETAILERS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); WEATHER (77%); GAS STATIONS (77%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); DEPARTMENT STORES (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (72%); GASOLINE MARKETS (66%); OIL & GAS PRICES (60%); GASOLINE PRICES (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1998



281 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 13, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 252 words

HEADLINE: '97 Current-Account Deficit Took a Jump

BYLINE: Bridge News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 12

 BODY:
The deficit in the United States current account, the broadest measure of foreign trade, jumped to its highest level in 10 years in 1997, the Commerce Department reported today.
The department said the gap in the current account widened to $166.4 billion, from $148.2 billion in 1996. The 1997 deficit, which amounted to 2.1 percent of gross domestic product, was the highest since the record deficit of $168.1 billion in 1987. 
 In the fourth quarter, the deficit widened to a record $45.6 billion from $43.1 billion in the third quarter.
The current account is the most important trade statistic because it measures investment flows as well as trade in goods and services. The trade reports that the Commerce Department issues monthly measure trade in goods and services only.
Economists have been forecasting that the nation's merchandise trade and current account deficits will rise in 1998 because the sharp currency devaluations in Asia will cut the cost of Asian imports while making it much more difficult for Asian economies to absorb exports from the United States.
At the same time, they expect that less expensive Asian imports, as well as low energy prices, will hold down inflationary pressures. Indeed, the Labor Department said in a separate report today that prices of American imports, excluding fuel, continued to decline in February -- the eighth consecutive month without a rise.
The price of imported goods apart from petroleum dropped three-tenths of 1 percent in the month.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (92%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (92%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (91%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (91%); IMPORT PRICES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); INFLATION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (76%); CURRENCIES (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (66%); DEVALUATION (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1998



282 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 13, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 386 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
Prices Up Sharply Despite 2 Strong Reports

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities rose sharply yesterday as investors apparently shrugged off concerns of inflation after several Government reports of economic strength.
Market participants said the buying was led by hedge funds and by central banks. The 30-year bond gained 12/32, to a price of 103 22/32, while its yield, which moves in the opposite direction, dropped to 5.86 percent, from 5.94 percent on Wednesday and its lowest level in more than three weeks. 
 Donald J. Fine, chief market analyst for Chase Asset Management, said that while the bond market continued to rally in part because it focused on the broader lack of inflationary pressure in the economy, looking beyond the strong reports yesterday on retail sales and jobless claims.
Retail sales rose half a percent in February, in line with expectations, but sales for January were revised upward strongly. And in the week ended March 7, initial claims for unemployment benefits fell to 298,000 from a revised 305,000 the week before.
Mr. Fine cited unusual weather conditions around the country, along with substantial tax refunds, as two possible reasons for the strength in consumption spending in the first quarter.
"More importantly," Mr. Fine said, "the buoyant consumer's robust spending has yet to produce an uplift in inflation."
The February Producer Price Index, to be released today, is expected to fall for the fourth consecutive month, and the Consumer Price Index, to be reported next week, is again expected to show little or no change.
In addition, Mr. Fine noted, both import and export prices continued to drop in February, and import prices are below those of a year ago, which puts downward pressure on prices of domestic goods. "Furthermore, given the adversity in Asia, this trend is not likely to reverse anytime soon, and that should keep the bond bulls bubbly," he said.
Edward S. Hyman and Nancy Lazar of the International Strategy and Investment Group, a money management firm, have told clients: "With oil down and the dollar up, U.S. inflation readings over the next few months are strongly biased to show improvements. We estimate March C.P.I. to have slowed to just a 1.3 percent year-over-year increase. Foreign C.P.I.'s already reported for February suggest a low U.S. reading for that month."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Tax-Exempt Yields"
Chart shows average yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, plotted weekly from October 1997 through March 1998. (Source: The Bond Buyer)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT INTERNATIONAL STRATEGY & INVESTMENT GROUP INC (64%); PRICES OF TREASURY (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT PRICES OF TREASURY (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES BONDS (92%); PRICE INCREASES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); INFLATION (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); PRODUCER PRICES (79%); IMPORT PRICES (79%); CONSUMPTION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); TRENDS (75%); EXPORT PRICES (74%); RETAIL SALES (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (74%); HEDGE FUNDS (72%); EXPORT TRADE (69%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); INTEREST RATES (59%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT DONALD J FINE (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1998



283 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 13, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 751 words

HEADLINE: Public Schools, Redefined

BYLINE: By Sue Halpern; Sue Halpern is the director of the Wilderness Community School and the author, most recently, of "Migrations to Solitude."

DATELINE: JOHNSBURG, N.Y.

 BODY:
There are days when, tired of arguing in favor of Gov. George Pataki's proposed charter-school legislation, I fantasize about moving to Scarsdale. How uncomplicated it would be to send my daughter off to a well-financed, energetic, successful local school while I, in good conscience, talked up the benefits of her public school education.
But I live in the Adirondacks, at the intersection of New York State's three poorest counties. Children are bused to a centralized K-12 public school with limited resources that is strained by state mandates dictating how those resources are spent. Until this year, school choice came down to sending our children to the central school or educating them at home. 
 This year, though, there was a third choice, a small, independent school that a few of us here made -- it feels like -- out of paper and glue. It, too, has limited resources: a tiny budget, no art or music teacher, no gym, no computer. We wanted to create a school where community service and hands-on experience in the natural world were integrated into a solid elementary curriculum.
It was not our intention to start a private school. All of us involved in this effort value public education. But public education did not value us; there was not enough room for our ideas within the public system, so we felt compelled to work outside it. Having done so, we have been gratified that many local teachers and administrators see us not as a threat but as a complement to their efforts in the public school.
The problem is that private schools charge admission. So in poor places like the Adirondacks, or like Ocean Hill or Bedford-Stuyvesant, nondenominational independent schools are beyond the reach of almost everyone. That's why they almost never exist in such neighborhoods.
We were lucky. A few foundations gave us enough money to ease the burden of tuition for a year. Most of our seven students receive substantial financial aid; if we had more money to give out, we would have more students.
It is unlikely that our luck will hold, and just as unlikely that others with good ideas, in other economically disenfranchised areas, will be so fortunate in the first place. That is why many people in rural areas and in inner-city neighborhoods like Brownsville and the South Bronx support Governor Pataki's efforts to charter independent schools.
It is also why Democratic state legislators from poor and minority districts are beginning to break ranks with their party to support the Governor's plan. Under his legislation, students would bring the average per-pupil expenditure of the school district with them to the school they wanted to attend.
Unlike vouchers, which are usually intended to allow students to apply public school money to private or parochial schools, this legislation would enable students to attend institutions that have been chartered by the Board of Regents, or perhaps a state chartering authority. The overseers would be able to insure that only schools with legitimate academic missions were approved. The effect would be to democratize educational opportunities in the state, which can only benefit children in underserved neighborhoods.
In my own underserved neighborhood, our Wilderness Community School was able -- because it is not a public school -- to hire two remarkable but uncertified teachers, both of them alumni of Teach for America, which sends recent college graduates to neglected areas. Governor Pataki's proposed legislation would allow teachers like ours and ideas like ours into state-financed classrooms. If traditional public schools then find themselves losing students, perhaps they will have the incentive and institutional support to reform. Chartering, rather than diminishing the public school system, promises to improve and expand it.
Last week, the Wilderness Community School had its end-of-the term open house, and all the students gave presentations. There was one on horses, one on George Washington Carver, one on a rare variety of ladyslipper. Afterward, I reminded my daughter that school would be on break for two weeks. "It's just not fair," she complained.
In a different way, I share her concern about fairness. On days when I don't dream of moving to Scarsdale, I allow myself to imagine a time when any child can choose to attend a school like ours. I hope that choice will still be available next year, and the year after -- all the way to the year when New York State has a strong school-charter law.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Santiago Cohen)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (88%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WILDERNESS COMMUNITY SCHOOL (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: WILDERNESS COMMUNITY SCHOOL (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; CHARTER SCHOOLS PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EDUCATION LAW (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (89%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); TUITION FEES (78%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (78%); SCHOOL CHOICE (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); CURRICULA (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); BUDGETS (75%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (73%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (73%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (67%); RELIGION (63%); 

PERSON: HALPERN, SUE; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (74%); EDDIE GEORGE (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1998



284 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 13, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 440 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY REPORTS;
Quarterly Profit Falls Short At National Semiconductor

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE M. FISHER 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, March 12

 BODY:
The National Semiconductor Corporation today reported earnings slightly below analysts' estimates for its most recent quarter, after warning last month that results would fall short of expectations. National said it expected a loss for the current quarter, after a further decline in revenue.
National's warning last month presaged a round of bad news for chip companies and their customers. Though different factors affected each company, bellwethers like the Intel Corporation, Motorola Inc., and the Compaq Computer Corporation subsequently reporting or warning of weaker-than-expected quarters. 
 National attributed its disappointing results to the Asian economic crisis and difficulties in increasing production of microprocessors at the Cyrix Corporation, which it acquired last year for about $550 million. Cyrix and its manufacturing partner, the International Business Machines Corporation, have not been able to meet demand for higher-speed versions of its chips, but National said today that it had begun its own production of these products at a plant in Portland, Me.
National shares closed today at $20.25, down 50 cents, on the New York Stock Exchange. National reported the results after the close of the market.
For the fiscal third quarter, which ended on March 1, National reported earnings of $22.3 million, or 13 cents a share on a fully diluted basis, down from $200.2 million, or $1.02 a share, in the comparable period a year earlier. Revenues fell 9 percent, to $650.1 million, from $712.0 million in the third quarter of the 1997 fiscal year.
The results for the previous year's quarter include a one-time gain of $202 million from the sale of Fairchild Semiconductor in March 1997. Third-quarter 1998 results include a one-time charge of $5.2 million related to the acquisition of audio compression technology from the Gulbransen Corporation. Without the charge, National would have earned 16 cents a share; analysts expected the company to earn 17 cents a share, according to First Call.
National said that although overall orders recovered in February from their January levels, third-quarter orders still reflected uncertainty in some markets. Because orders in networking, wireless communications and personal computers remained weak, National said it now expected revenue to decline, and said a loss was likely for the fourth quarter.
"As a result of this uncertain business environment we are aggressively pursing cost reduction actions and obviously continuing to drive revenue growth for the future," Brian L. Halla, National's president and chief executive officer, said in a statement.

GRAPHIC: Table: "National Semiconductor Corp. (NSM,N)"

Qtr. to March 1	1998	1997	%Ch	Sales	650,100,000	712,000,000	-8.7	Net inc.	b22,300,000	c200,200,000	-88.9	Sh. earn	.13	1.20		Sh. out.	167,300,000	168,600,000	 	
b-Included a one-time, pretax charge of $5.2 million for the expense of in-process research and development related to the acquisition of audio compression technology from Gulbransen Corp. Excluding the charge, the company earned 16 cents a share.
c-Included a pretax gain of $202 million related to the sale of the company's Fairchild businesses in March 1997, and restated to include the effects of National's merger with Cyrix Corp. in November 1997. Excluding the gain, the company earned 18 cents a share.
Year-ago quarter ended Feb. 23.
Sales are net sales.
Results are for the third quarter.
 
Yesterday's closing price: $20.25
down 50 cents
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Statistics

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (84%); MSI (NYSE) (72%); HPQ (NYSE) (72%); IBMC (BRU) (70%); IBM (NYSE) (70%); IBM (LSE) (70%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC3069 FABRICATED RUBBER PRODUCTS, NEC (92%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3589 SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY, NEC (92%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (85%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (72%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (55%); 

STATE: MAINE, USA (55%); 

CITY: PORTLAND, ME, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL SEMICONDUCTOR CORP NATIONAL LATEX PRODUCTS CO (92%); NATIONAL SUPER SERVICE CO (92%); NATIONAL SEMICONDUCTOR CORP (85%); INTEL CORP (84%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (72%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (72%); INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (70%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SEMICONDUCTOR CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (55%); MAINE, USA (55%); PORTLAND, ME, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (93%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (91%); ELECTRONICS (90%); MICROPROCESSORS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); SEMICONDUCTORS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (76%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (71%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (67%); EXECUTIVES (60%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (55%); 

PERSON: FISHER, LAWRENCE M BRIAN L HALLA (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1998



285 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 13, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 11; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 733 words

HEADLINE: Residential Real Estate;
Greenwich Condo Resuming Sales

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

 BODY:
Originally designed as luxury condominiums, Old Greenwich Gables became a rental complex when the building boom of the 80's soured. Now the 167-unit development named for its area of Greenwich, Conn., has come full circle.
Sales of units resumed last month after the developer, Collins Enterprises of Old Greenwich, acquired the mortgage on the complex at 51 Forest Avenue for $23.5 million from the lender. YTB Leasing (America) Inc., a subsidiary of the Yasuda Trust and Banking Company of Tokyo, held a $70 million loan on the 12-building 7.6-acre project. 
 Construction began in 1989. Over the next three years, 50 apartments were built, with 40 being sold. The remaining 10 were rented. All but 17 of the 117 units built through 1995 were also rented.
That completed the 7.6-acre complex next to the Metro-North Commuter Railroad station in an area of narrow streets and tightly packed turn-of-the-century houses.
The president of Collins Enterprises, Arthur Collins 2d, said that with the lower mortgage, selling at competitive prices was "now doable." That, along with a strong market, supported the decision to resume sales, Mr. Collins said.
His company negotiated with YTB Leasing for nearly two years. The sale indicates that since 1996, the Yasuda Bank has been trying to leave such loans by this month. The policy is related to the financial difficulties of Japanese banks.
A YTB executive who spoke on condition of anonymity confirmed the reason for the sale, one of 40 such loans that the bank has sold in two years.
The financing to buy the mortgage is from an $18.2 million loan from the Manhattan office of Helaba Landesbank Hessen-Thuringen of Frankfurt, Germany. The rest came from the Apollo Fund, which invests in real estate worldwide, and Collins's equity.
"In securing new low-cost capital, Collins will be able to maintain an economic interest in and benefit from the sale of the units," said Steven A. Kohn, managing director at the Sonnenblick-Goldman Company, the real estate investment banking firm in Manhattan that arranged the bank financing for the Old Greenwich Gables loan.
Mr. Kohn said a steady flow of such loan sales would continue for at least two years as Japanese banks and other Asian lenders liquidated their real estate assets in the United States.
At Old Greenwich Gables, Mr. Collins said, his company plans a $1.5 million renovation, including $5,000 to $15,000 to refurbish each of the unsold one- to three-bedroom units as they become available. The units, with 911 to 2,400 square feet on one or two floors, are in three-story buildings grouped around courtyards and brick walkways.
The company also plans to improve common areas like the 229-car underground garage and the walkways at the complex, whose amenities include a health club and an outdoor pool. Monthly maintenance is $200 to $515.
In the month since the purchase, 10 vacant units have been sold, for $250,000 to $575,000, Mr. Collins said, noting that the prices are about the same as the original prices.
Gary and Judy Miller recently sold a one-bedroom unit with a loft that they had owned at the complex since 1994 and are buying a larger unit that they have been renting elsewhere in the complex. The Millers plan to close on their unit at the end of the month.
"We always believed that the condominium because of its location would hold its value," Mr. Miller, a member of the condo association, said. "We are not looking for the same appreciation single-family detached homes are achieving. But values are moving north, and we are very comfortable with that."
Robert S. Curtis, who runs a real estate firm with his name in Greenwich, said the local market was benefiting from the improvement in the New York metropolitan region market and renewed interest from buyers like professional couples and those with "empty nests" who want the maintenance-free living.
According to the Residential Data Base Reference, which reports on housing sales in Greenwich, the average sales price of the 212 condominiums sold last year was $385,000. By comparison, the average for the 171 units sold in 1996 was $344,800. In 1989, the average was $382,300.
The market for single-family housing, including condominiums "is active and edging toward a seller's market," said Laurel A. Dove, manager of the Greenwich office of Coldwell Banker, the realty company.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Old Greenwich Gables turned to rentals when the boom of the 80's soured. Collins Enterprises has bought the mortgage from a Japanese banking subsidiary and is resuming condominium sales. (Janet Durrans for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); HESSE, GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (77%); 

COMPANY: COLLINS ENTERPRISES; YTB LEASING (AMERICA) INC; YASUDA TRUST & BANKING CORP LANDESBANK HESSEN-THUERINGEN GIROZENTRALE (93%); YASUDA TRUST & BANKING CO LTD (71%); SONNENBLICK-GOLDMAN CO (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLLINS ENTERPRISES; YTB LEASING (AMERICA) INC; YASUDA TRUST & BANKING CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; GREENWICH (CONN); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); GERMANY (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); HESSE, GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (77%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; OLD GREENWICH GABLES (GREENWICH, CONN); CONDOMINIUMS CONDOMINIUMS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (75%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (74%); 

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE ARTHUR D COLLINS JR (84%); ARTHUR D COLLINS JR (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1998



286 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 13, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 233 words

HEADLINE: I.R.S. Has Sent Out More in Tax Refunds

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 12

 BODY:
The Treasury Department has sent out 11.3 percent more in tax refunds this year than in the corresponding time last year, providing a potential push for the economy in the first quarter.
The Internal Revenue Service reported today that it sent taxpayers $45.02 billion in refunds through last Friday, up from $40.46 billion in the corresponding period last year. 
 The rise could lead to increased consumer spending, which makes up about two-thirds of the overall economy, during the first three months of 1998, analysts said. "It might explain in part the strength that took place in retail sales activity" in February, said Lynn Reaser, an economist at Nationsbank in Jacksonville, Fla.
The faster consumers get their refund money, the more likely they are to spend it, which suggests growth in the second quarter could slow, analysts said.
Consumers are speeding up the tax-refund process by filing their taxes over the telephone and through computers. The number of individuals using the phone to file their taxes has risen 25.2 percent so far this tax season to 4.38 million from 3.5 million in the similar period in 1997.
The number of taxpayers sending their tax forms by computer has risen 21.8 percent in 1998 to 13.31 million from 10.92 million. The I.R.S. is also sending out slightly larger refund checks. The average refund is $1,450 so far this year, up from $1,418.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT; INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (91%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT; INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (91%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; INCOME TAX; FEDERAL TAXES (US); UNITED STATES ECONOMY; REFUNDS TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TAX AUTHORITIES (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); INCOME TAX (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING (71%); RETAIL SALES (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1998



287 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 13, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 319 words

HEADLINE: Thais Expected to End $392 Million Boeing Deal

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 12

 BODY:
The United States has agreed to allow Thailand to cancel its purchase of eight F/A-18 fighter jets because of Thailand's economic crisis, Administration officials said today.
The decision to cancel the $392 million deal is to be announced on Friday, when Prime Minister Chuan Leekpai is to meet President Clinton here, the officials said. 
 Thailand, which has already paid $72 million, faces another $100 million payment by the end of the month to the planes' manufacturer, the Boeing Company. It is not clear what effect cancellation of the sale will have on Boeing, but one official said the Administration hoped Thailand would resume purchases once its economy recovers its footing.
Thailand's inability to pay for the planes underscored the extent to which the economic crises that have swept southeast Asia have curbed a budding regional arms buildup, which has pitted American arms makers against European and Russian companies. Malaysia, Indonesia and South Korea have all announced cuts in military spending, including purchases from the United States.
Thailand is one of the oldest American allies in southeast Asia, and the decision to allow it to break a contract showed the Administration's desire to maintain good ties. Relations have been strained somewhat by Thai perceptions that Washington was slow to respond to its economic crisis.
Secretary of Defense William S. Cohen was in Thailand in January and, after meeting Mr. Chuan and other officials, pledged to help Thailand renegotiate the purchase. Although Boeing makes the planes, Thailand bought them directly from the Pentagon. They were due to be delivered next year.
At their meeting in January, Mr. Chuan asked the United States either to keep the F/A-18's or to find another country willing to buy them. American forces cannot use the planes because they are an export model incompatible with those in the American arsenal.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (94%); BAB (BRU) (94%); BA (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); THAILAND (95%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); ASIA (92%); MALAYSIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: BOEING CO BOEING CO (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOEING CO

GEOGRAPHIC: THAILAND; UNITED STATES (99%); THAILAND (95%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); ASIA (92%); MALAYSIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; MILITARY AIRCRAFT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ARMS TRADE (78%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); AIRLINES (73%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (68%); PRIME MINISTERS (57%); 

PERSON: MYERS, STEVEN LEE; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); CHUAN LEEKPAI (PRIME MIN) BILL CLINTON (72%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (58%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1998



288 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 13, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Says It Might Consider Attacking Serbs

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHENON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 12

 BODY:
Clinton Administration officials raised the possibility today that the United States would consider a military attack on Serbian forces if diplomatic efforts failed to stop human rights abuses in the province of Kosovo.
The Administration announced that it was also weighing whether to enlarge an American-led United Nations peacekeeping force in Macedonia because of fears that the crisis in neighboring Kosovo could spin out of control. 
 "We want to use every appropriate instrument at hand," Robert Gelbard, President Clinton's special envoy to the Balkans, said when asked at a Congressional hearing whether the United States might consider military strikes against Serbian police and paramilitary units that have been blamed for dozens of killings in Kosovo in the last 10 days.
Mr. Gelbard said the United States would first try to end human rights abuses against the ethnic Albanian majority in Kosovo through "every possible economic sanction or other kind of tool we have diplomatically, but we're not ruling anything out."
Another senior official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said a military attack on Serbian forces involved in the Kosovo crackdown was a distinct possibility, although "not likely." He added, "It's a useful threat to have out there."
Officials said the State Department and the Pentagon were considering whether to update a diplomatic warning that was first issued by President Bush in December 1992.
In a letter then to President Slobodan Milosevic, Mr. Bush said the United States was prepared to use force against the Serbs if they tried to drive ethnic Albanians from Kosovo, a province in which Serbs are a small minority.
An Administration official involved in American policy in the Balkans said that while the United States had not drawn up any contingency plans for an attack on the Serbs, "the United States view remains the same as it was in December 1992 -- that we're not going to sit back and accept a major Serb military operation in Kosovo."
The State Department charged this week that Mr. Milosevic's Government was engaging in "ethnic cleansing" in Kosovo and said today that a Serbian overture to negotiate with the ethnic Albanians there was a "propaganda exercise."
"It seems like the Belgrade authorities are proposing things that are designed to fail," James P. Rubin, the department's spokesman, said after Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright met with her senior advisers to discuss Kosovo.
Mr. Rubin said the Serbian offer for talks "consisted in large part of a justification for the use of force in Kosovo and contained no hint of remorse for the deaths of innocent Albanian victims."
The State Department also said today that the United Nations force of 700 American and Scandinavian peacekeeping soldiers in the former Yugoslav republic of Macedonia might be enlarged. Ethnic Albanians in Macedonia have vowed to back Kosovo's struggle for independence.
The State Department also announced that Deputy Secretary of State Strobe Talbott would travel next week to Macedonia, Albania, Slovenia and other neighbors of Kosovo to discuss responses to Mr. Milosevic's actions in the province.
Mr. Gelbard, in his appearance today before the House International Relations Committee, was asked to explain remarks he made in Belgrade, only days before the first Serbian attacks on Kosovo. At that time Mr. Gelbard described the outlawed Kosovo Liberation Army, which was the target of Serbian paramilitary forces during the recent turmoil, as a terrorist organization.
In his comments on Feb. 23, Mr. Gelbard said that the Kosovo Liberation Army "is, without any questions, a terrorist group" and that "we condemn very strongly terrorist activities in Kosovo." Spokesmen for the Serbian Government have seized upon his remarks as a justification for the crackdown in Kosovo.
Questioned by lawmakers today on whether he still considered the group a terrorist organization, Mr. Gelbard said that while it has "committed terrorist acts," it has "not been classified legally by the U.S. Government as a terrorist organization."
And whatever the activities of the separatists, who have claimed responsibility for a series of attacks on Serbian targets, Mr. Gelbard said the blame for the violence in Kosovo rested squarely with the Government of Mr. Milosevic.
"Unfortunately and tragically, terrorist acts have occurred, and they have provided an excuse for Milosevic here," he said. "But, as I said, there is no question at all that the overwhelming, brutal, repressive, despicable violence -- the criminal actions, I believe, committed by the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia here -- are responsible for the tragedy we have at hand right now."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); SERBIA (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); KOSOVO (94%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (94%); ALBANIA (94%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); UNITED STATES (99%); SERBIA (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); KOSOVO (94%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (94%); ALBANIA (94%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS) INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); PEACEKEEPING (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (74%); ARMED FORCES (73%); POLITICS (70%); 

PERSON: SHENON, PHILIP BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1998



289 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 13, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 593 words

HEADLINE: 2 Polk Awards for Journalism To New York Times Reporters

BYLINE: By CHARLIE LeDUFF 

 BODY:
Reporters for The New York Times have won two 1997 George Polk Awards for excellence in journalism for their articles on allegations of corruption at the nation's largest private hospital chain and safety concerns surrounding light trucks and sport utility vehicles.
Kurt Eichenwald and Martin Gottlieb of The Times won the award for business reporting for their series of articles on allegations of fraud, overcharging, conflicts of interest and other practices at Columbia/HCA Healthcare Corporation. 
 With the aid of computer analyses, Mr. Eichenwald and Mr. Gottlieb raised questions about the company and how it purchased hospitals and charged the Government for its Medicare patients. Their reports prompted indictments, lawsuits and a corporate reorganization.
Keith Bradsher, Detroit bureau chief for The Times, won the Polk Award for national reporting for his investigation into the human and financial toll sport utility vehicles and light trucks take on the nation's roadways. Mr. Bradsher linked an increase in air pollution to the vehicles, which were exempt from federal emissions standards, and documented the inordinate amount of deaths related to the vehicles.
In all, journalists from 13 American news organizations were recipients of the awards, established in 1949 in memory of George W. Polk, a CBS News correspondent who was killed 50 years ago while covering the civil war in Greece. Formal presentation of the awards, which are administered by Long Island University, will be on April 15 in Manhattan.
A career award was given to The Pittsburgh Courier, a prominent newspaper that for nearly 50 years has been covering affairs of special interest to African Americans. It is the first time in the history of the Polk Awards that the career award is being presented to a publication rather than an individual.
The award for foreign reporting went to Laurie Garrett of Newsday for her 25-part series on rampant tuberculosis and AIDS in the former Soviet Union. She showed how a nearly bankrupt economy and poor environmental decisions have led to hundreds of thousands of deaths.
The other categories and winners:
INTERNATIONAL Michael Dobbs of The Washington Post for documenting the Jewish roots of Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright, whose parents hid her past from her even though much of the family died in Nazi concentration camps.
MAGAZINE Adam Gopnik of The New Yorker for his dispatches from Paris.
SPORTS The Kansas City Star for its reports of the National Collegiate Athletic Association's poor enforcement record and its executives' expensive taste for perks.
BOOK AWARD Horst Faas and Tim Page for "Requiem," a tribute to 135 photographers who died covering wars in Southeast Asia from 1950 to 1975. It is Mr. Faas's third Polk Award.
ENVIRONMENTAL Will Englund, Gary Cohn and Perry Thorsvik of The Baltimore Sun for "Shipbreakers," their series on the safety hazards faced by poorly trained ship workers.
LOCAL REPORTING The Pensacola News Journal for "Pensacola's Brownsville Revival: The money and the Myths," which exposed skullduggery at a local revival.
MEDICAL The Wall Street Journal for its report linking over-the-counter diet drugs to lethal side effects.
MILITARY AFFAIRS The Dayton Daily News for "Unnecessary Danger," a series about the military's protection of incompetent physicians.
NETWORK TELEVISION ABC News's "Prime Time Live" for "Blood Money," an expose on black-market trafficking in human body parts from Chinese prisoners and sold in the United States.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HCA (NYSE) (84%); WPO (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS622110 GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS (84%); NAICS621493 FREESTANDING AMBULATORY SURGICAL & EMERGENCY CENTERS (84%); SIC8062 GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS (84%); SIC8011 OFFICES & CLINICS OF DOCTORS OF MEDICINE (84%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (54%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (54%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (54%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); FRANCE (52%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (77%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (77%); PARIS, FRANCE (52%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES; PITTSBURGH COURIER HCA HOLDINGS INC (84%); WASHINGTON POST CO (54%); PENSACOLA NEWS JOURNAL (50%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (54%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK TIMES; PITTSBURGH COURIER LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (54%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); FRANCE (52%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (77%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (77%); PARIS, FRANCE (52%); 

SUBJECT: NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; AWARDS, DECORATIONS AND HONORS; POLK, GEORGE, AWARDS AWARDS & PRIZES (92%); JOURNALISM (92%); NEWS REPORTING (91%); MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); HOSPITALS (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); INDUSTRY AWARDS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); WRITERS (79%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (77%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (77%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (77%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (77%); MEDICARE (76%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (72%); HEALTH CARE (72%); HOLOCAUST (71%); SUITS & CLAIMS (71%); AIDS & HIV (71%); CIVIL WAR (70%); TUBERCULOSIS (69%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (67%); FAMILY (67%); AIR POLLUTION (67%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (54%); 

PERSON: LEDUFF, CHARLIE; EICHENWALD, KURT; GOTTLIEB, MARTIN; BRADSHER, KEITH EDDIE GEORGE (68%); EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1998



290 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 13, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 583 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Some Stock Indexes Set Records, but Dow Slips
After most major stock gauges stumbled at the start of the trading day yesterday, they reversed course with help from strong economic news and indications that the robust demand for shares seems to be continuing. Those factors helped send the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index up another 1.45 points, to 1,069.92, its third consecutive record high. 
 Smaller stocks participated, too. The Russell 2000 index of smaller-company stocks also set a record, gaining 0.65 point, to close at 467.77, its second consecutive high. But the Dow Jones industrial average fell 16.19 points, to 8,659.56. Page D8.
 
Prices of Treasury securities increased, sending the yield on the 30-year bond plummeting to 5.86 percent, its lowest level in more than three weeks. D8.
 
Money Rolled Into Funds in February
Stock mutual funds attracted an estimated net $19.5 billion last month, exceeding the net $14.6 billion put into them in January. But the story was different for bond funds, which lured an estimated net $8.5 billion in February, down from $11.3 billion in January. D8.
 
Gates Working on a Second Book
William H. Gates, the chairman of Microsoft, has quietly approached several New York publishers about writing a new book intended to showcase his talents as a technologist and counter the image that his company is a monopolistic predator. Unlike his first book, "The Road Ahead," which was aimed at general readers, the new book would be intended for the company's millions of business customers. D4.
 
Retail Sales Rise
Retail sales rose half a percent in February, as warm weather brought shoppers out. January's sales data were also revised upward to show a gain of 1 percent. D4.
 
F.C.C. Approves Ratings System
The Federal Communications Commission has approved the ratings system agreed to last year by broadcasters, parent advocacy groups and the Motion Picture Association of America. Now television manufacturers must begin making sets with the V-chip, which provides the ability to block programs according to the ratings codes. A16.
 
Korea's Liquidity Crisis Eases
South Korea and international banks successfully have converted enough of the country's short-term foreign debt into long-term debt to ease a liquidity crisis. D2.
 
A Big Turnaround at Oracle
Oracle reported a sharp gain in its quarterly earnings, exceeding analysts' estimates. The performance was a sharp turnaround from weak results reported in December. D4.
 
National Semiconductor reported quarterly earnings slightly below analysts' estimates and said it expected a loss in the current quarter. D4.
 
Japanese Pump Money Into Banks
The Japanese Government agreed to put 1.42 trillion yen, or nearly $11 billion, into 17 banks in an effort to restore confidence in the debt-burdened financial system. D2.
 
The Return of the Bug
The campaign for the original version of the Volkswagen Beetle, sold in the United States from 1949 to 1979, is widely considered the best ever created for a consumer product. With the Bug's return, can lightning strike twice? Stuart Elliott: Advertising. D6.
 
Nicotine Tinkering at Reynolds
A former top manager at R. J. Reynolds Tobacco secretly told Federal regulators in 1994 that the company manipulated nicotine levels in some products to give them more "oomph" and "pizazz." A13.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 8,659.56 down 16.19
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.86% down 0.08
The Dollar -- 129.32 yen Unchanged
 
Graph: "TODAY" shows Producer Price Index. February figures due at 8:30 A.M. Eastern. Expected: -0.2%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (76%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (55%); NATIONAL SEMICONDUCTOR CORP (51%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (76%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (94%); NEWS BRIEFS (91%); BONDS (90%); SALES FIGURES (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); RETAIL SALES (86%); EXTERNAL DEBT (84%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); CONTENT RATINGS (77%); BOND FUNDS (74%); TREASURY SECURITIES (74%); MUTUAL FUNDS (73%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); COMPANY LOSSES (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (68%); PUBLIC DEBT (67%); APPROVALS (67%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (63%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (61%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (50%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MFG (50%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (50%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (50%); 

PERSON: BILL GATES (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1998



291 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 13, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1434 words

HEADLINE: Experiment in Private Fire Protection Fails for a Westchester Village

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GLABERSON 

DATELINE: RYE BROOK, N.Y., March 12

 BODY:
Two years ago, this prosperous village in Westchester County drew national attention when it became the first municipality in the heavily unionized Northeast to hire a private company to provide fire protection.
This week, three months after a $1 million home was destroyed by a fire, there was a verdict of sorts on privatization: Rye Brook decided to part with the private company and hire its own firefighters. "It was not a success," the Mayor, Salvatore M. Cresenzi, said in an interview today. 
 The story of Rye Brook's experiment with privatization, officials here say, is full of lessons for other communities attracted to businesses that promise efficiency in the delivery of essential services.
"I think people are going to tread very carefully on the privatization of public safety," said the Westchester County Executive, Andrew Spano. "You have a responsibility to protect the citizens of your jurisdiction."
In recent years, privatization -- the hiring of profit-making enterprises to run public services -- has been the most talked-about idea in local governments. There have been some successes, like the management of municipal sports arenas and convention centers. And there have been some notable failures, like the cancellation of contracts with a private company to run the public schools in Hartford and Baltimore.
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani of New York City has talked about privatization, but he has yet to bring about any large-scale change in this area.
With municipalities everywhere struggling to contain costs, business executives who have promised to show political leaders how to manage such core services as fire protection have drawn special notice. When Rye Brook decided in 1996 to hire Rural Metro Corporation of Scottsdale, Ariz., to provide fire protection, the deal was presented as a test of whether the idea could work in the densely populated Northeast.
For decades, some Western cities and suburbs have used privately owned fire departments. But those areas often lack the firefighter unions and the long traditions of professional and volunteer fire departments that exist in the New York region.
Executives of Rural Metro, a publicly traded company that is the largest of a dozen private providers of fire protection in the country, had described the deal here as an experiment with national import. In a 1996 interview, Martin A. Yenawine, a company vice president, was quoted in the Central New York Business Journal as saying, "If it can happen in the New York City area, it can happen anywhere."
But from the start, the arrival of the profit-making company encountered resistance that sometimes included protests, threats and vandalism.
Officials here say there were many causes of Rural Metro's problems, including hostility from unionized firefighters across the New York region who conducted a campaign intended to make residents of Rye Brook fear that they were being inadequately protected by the company. There was also hostility from volunteer firefighters who saw the company as a threat to old social traditions in many small towns.
For firefighters everywhere, the arrival of the company was a fundamental threat, said Anthony Pagano, president of the Yonkers chapter of the International Association of Firefighters, a union. "People might say, 'Maybe it's better that we go cheaper,' " Mr. Pagano said today. "But, you know, bean counters are counting beans, while we are fighting fires. That's dangerous to firefighters."
Perhaps the biggest challenge to the privatization experiment was the bitter dispute that the arrangement set off between Rye Brook and the neighboring village of Port Chester. The feud aggravated old divisions between the wealthy village of Rye Brook, most of whose residents are white, and Port Chester, with its more racially diverse and blue-collar population.
Before Rye Brook decided to hire a private company, it paid Port Chester $725,000 a year to provide fire protection. The amount was almost half of Port Chester's fire budget.
Although Rye Brook officials had not expected any short-term savings with Rural Metro, they had hoped to gain a more effective firefighting service by acquiring control of firefighters and having firefighting equipment within the village.
 In what Mayor Cresenzi said was an effort to sabotage the experiment here, Port Chester said it would not to respond to calls for help from the private Rye Brook firefighters.
Mayor Cresenzi said that the resistance from firefighters and the difficulties with Port Chester were obstacles to making privatization work. "We thought it was the best for Rye Brook," he said bitterly. "Other jurisdictions said, 'No way,' and they tried to undermine it and make sure it failed. That's what we were up against."
The Port Chester fire chief, William M. Barnes, acknowledged that he was ordered by village officials not to respond to calls from Rye Brook. He said there were safety and financial reasons, but he declined to comment further. Port Chester's Mayor, Christine A. Korff, did not respond to telephone messages that were left with her secretary.
Kurt M. Krumperman, Rural Metro's regional president for the Northeast, said one effect of the debate was that the company had difficulty keeping the on-call reserve firefighters that it relied on to supplement the nine full-time firefighters.
He said people who took the $5.50-an-hour reserve jobs were subjected to pressure from opponents. "The fact is that we are a for-profit company," Mr. Krumperman said, "and that was just not well-received in the communities surrounding Rye Brook."
The reserve firefighters living near Rye Brook kept resigning because of the pressure, Mr. Krumperman said, and the company was forced to look farther and farther away to maintain adequate staffing.
Mayor Cresenzi said Rural Metro had promised that at least 25 reserve firefighters would respond to emergencies.
These nagging problems turned into a crisis during the fire at the $1 million house on Rocking Horse Trail last December. Six full-time firefighters responded. But instead of the 25 reserve firefighters, there were only three. Port Chester did not respond to calls for help.
Mayor Cresenzi said that a crowd gathered at the fire, and that its members seemed to include firefighters from neighboring communities who were willing to let the fire burn to prove a point. He said he heard someone in the crowd say, "Let the Jews burn," which he took to be a sign of the generalized animosities between the village and some of its neighbors. The residents of the house were not Jewish.
No people were injured, but the contract with Rural Metro was fatally injured.
The owner of the house filed papers indicating an intention to sueRye Brook, Rural Metro and Port Chester, accusing them of inadequate fire protection. The company and village officials say that even a fully staffed department could not have prevented the damage because the 911 call was made when the fire was already well under way.
But with anxieties here rising, the village trustees quickly gave the company 60 days to provide adequate reserve staffing. Last Monday, the company notified the board that it could no longer promise to supply the required firefighters and recommended that the village return to a municipal department.
On Tuesday, Rye Brook announced that it would move toward a village fire department over the next six months.
Mr. Krumperman of Rural Metro said the experience had taught his company a lesson about private fire protection in this area of the country, where hostility to privatization is high. "You have to pay attention to those kinds of acceptance issues," he said, "and how surrounding communities will relate."
Instead of the ambitious plans it talked about a few years ago, he said, Rural Metro is now concentrating in this part of the country on supplying for-profit fire protection merely as a supplement to government-run fire departments.
To some experts on privatization, Rye Brook's experience is an example of how economic efficiency may not always be all that people want from their government services.
Robert W. Bailey, a professor of public policy at Rutgers University in Camden, said that in many community fire departments, there are social and union traditions that may be considered valuable, but that a corporate vendor may not understand. Officials should be skeptical of privatization of services like fire protection, Mr. Bailey said. Basic municipal services, he said, "are associated with cultural and political values."

GRAPHIC: Photo: From left, some of Rye Brook's privately hired firefighters: Frank Dominguez; Shawn Bliss, in cap; Fire Chief Martin Drexelius, in white shirt; Chris Martinelli; behind him, Daryl Osiecki, and Lieut. Ron Benson, right. (Chris Maynard for The New York Times)(pg. B8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: RURL (NASDAQ) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS621910 AMBULANCE SERVICES (82%); NAICS561210 FACILITIES SUPPORT SERVICES (82%); SIC8744 FACILITIES SUPPORT MANAGEMENT SERVICES (82%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: RURAL/METRO CORP RURAL METRO CORP (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: RURAL/METRO CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: RYE BROOK (NY); WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FIRES AND FIREMEN; PRIVATIZATION PRIVATIZATION (91%); FIRE PREVENTION & SAFETY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (89%); MAYORS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); COUNTIES (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); VOLUNTEERS (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); VANDALISM (72%); SPORTS BUSINESS (67%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (52%); 

PERSON: GLABERSON, WILLIAM; CRESENZI, SALVATORE M (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1998



292 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 13, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1444 words

HEADLINE: Where Landlords Learn;
Some Property Owners Choose School Over Fines

BYLINE: By RANDY KENNEDY 

 BODY:
The teacher raised his hands and pleaded for calm: "Hold on! Let's catch our breath here, people!"
But the student in front was determined to finish his account of being menaced with a kitchen knife. Two classmates were laughing at him. A fourth student launched into a full-throated attack against human nature and the evils of bureaucracy and marched angrily out of the room. "I have a bad heart," she yelled from the hallway. "I've got to cool down." 
 In almost any other classroom, someone would have been in big trouble. But this was Landlord School, and the 25 New York City landlords who had gathered in the basement of a Brooklyn bank were already in big trouble.
Sometime this winter, city housing inspectors found that they were not providing their tenants with heat or hot water or both, one of the most serious violations of city housing law. Instead of paying a fine, though, the landlords had chosen an unusual out: they were going to school and learning to be better landlords.
In a city of more than four million renters, it might sound like the stuff of fantasy, a tenement morality tale from the pages of Bernard Malamud.
But the experimental program, begun in January 1997 and confined for now to Brooklyn, has produced real results: None of the 100 landlords who took the nine-hour course last winter have been cited for denying tenants heat or hot water so far this winter.
"They're not the people you think of when you think of a slumlord," said Anne Pasmanick, who runs the Community Training and Resource Center, a tenant advocacy group that created the program with the help of the courts, landlord groups and the city. "These are people, for the most part, who are not malicious, but just ignorant and struggling themselves. And when they get fined, they usually just get mad. The fines don't make them say, 'What can I do to solve the problem?' "
Those who have passed through the class, officially known as the Landlord Training Program, are certainly not a casting agent's idea of slick New York City landlords. Most have full-time jobs apart from real estate and spend nights and weekends attending to the intricacies of boilers, breaker switches, clogged toilets and leaky roofs.
Nearly two-thirds of the landlords were born outside the United States and many are recent immigrants who have a hard time with English. Their tenants tend to be recent immigrants themselves, many of them working class or poor.
Also, the class is open only to small-time landlords who own fewer than 20 apartments, a group that has long been on the economic ropes, struggling with worn-down buildings, low rents and what they contend are crushing taxes and regulations. Citywide, the group is essential to the affordable housing market: according to 1996 Census Bureau figures, perhaps as many as half a million people live in buildings of this size.
But when asked, almost all the landlords in the class swear that if they were given a chance to go back and invest the money elsewhere residential real estate would be nowhere on the list. "Are you kidding?" asked Kwei Yang, a nurse in her late 40's who owns two buildings on tough streets in East New York. "I had no idea what I was getting into. It has turned my hair gray."
That is not to say, however, that the landlords are the innocent victims they often portray themselves to be. While they are all first-time offenders of the heat and hot water laws, a survey of last winter's class of 100 landlords found that more than half the owners had at least 30 violations recorded against their buildings, ranging from faulty wiring to broken windows to roach and mice infestations.
And there is a good chance that many of the landlords have not fixed these problems. In spot checks of repairs, the city's Department of Housing Preservation and Development has found that landlords lie about correcting violations in about 35 percent of the cases.
Many owners also readily admit to being active participants in the landlord-tenant duels that have become as ritualized in New York City as Kabuki theater. "There was this one guy who came up to me and said, 'I turned off the heat and hot water,' " Ms. Pasmanick of the tenant advocacy group recalled. "He said, 'I wanted to get these people out of there, and this is how I did it.' No qualms about doing it. Or saying it."
More often, though, the owners simply do not know how to run their buildings, a fact that led the city's largest landlords' group, the Rent Stabilization Association, into a rare alliance with the tenant advocates to promote the program.
"Everybody thinks you're an automatic maven, an expert, when you buy a building," said Joseph Strasburg, president of the landlord group. "It's just not the case."
On a recent night in landlord class, the students were amazed, for example, to hear that apartments consume almost twice as much energy as the average American house, because they are generally overheated. Many had never considered that when their fuel-oil salesman is also their boiler repairman the potential for finagling exists, or that many of their shower heads still spout 6 gallons of water a minute instead of 2.5 gallons, the Federal standard.
"This item alone could cut your fuel bill for hot water in half," said Andrew Padian, an energy efficiency expert who addressed the class.
The landlords listened with rapt attention until the discussion turned to their relationships with tenants, at which point they angrily insisted that they could teach the tenant advocates a thing or two.
Kevin Ryan, an advocate who taught the class, tried to head off the barrage of horror stories. "I've heard them all; every story you could think of," he said. "I heard about the tenant who put cement in the toilet to stop it up; the landlord who deliberately put rats in the apartment to drive the tenant out. There's nothing you can tell me I haven't heard."
But it did not stop his students from trying. Throughout the class, Daniel Sigueacia, an Ecuadorean immigrant who owns a six-family building in Ridgewood, Brooklyn, recounted how he had been attacked by tenants with knives and how he had offered one particularly troublesome tenant $1,800 to move out.
Ms. Yang, the nurse, told of the ex-convict tenant who broke into a vacant building and stole every inch of copper pipe.
When the subject of heating bills came up, Emmanuel Wu, an immigrant from Taiwan who owns buildings in Williamsburg, shouted: "The tenants want it like a nursery in the building! They want to burn up your money one way or the other."
The class briefly threatened to devolve into "The Jerry Springer Show" when Shirley White, a grandmother who owns a six-family building in East Flatbush, began castigating the people who landed her in the class: the tenants who reported her and the housing inspectors who cited her building.
"I've been there since 1970, and nobody has ever called the inspector on me," said Ms. White, flailing her arms and trembling. "I have four generations living in that building who are my family. We don't freeze. You walk into my building -- everybody's got shorts on."
After the class, Mr. Ryan pressed his fingers to his temples and said, "They don't learn much when everybody's yelling, but I think it helps -- kind of like group therapy."
While the class has been praised by housing advocates, landlords and those who oversee the chaotic housing courts, its future is uncertain. So far, three private philanthropies -- the Edna McConnell Clark Foundation, the Uris Brothers Foundation and the Banker's Trust Company Foundation -- have paid for the pilot program. The program has cost about $46,000 a year and has trained 125 landlords with the help of the Cornell University Cooperative Extension Program, which advises building managers in low-income neighborhoods.
But the philanthropies say it should be the role of city government to continue the classes, and they have not pledged support beyond this year.
Officials with the Department of Housing Preservation and Development -- who have run a similar but less intensive landlord class for the last three years -- have spoken favorably about the program. But they declined to say whether they would pay to continue it.
Justice Fern Fisher-Brandveen, administrative judge of the city's Civil Court, which oversees housing cases, said she would like to see the program expanded into Queens "because we have so many small owners and so many immigrants there who need it." At the very least, she said, it should be continued in Brooklyn, where its results have been encouraging. "It would be a real shame if it just went away."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Photo by Naum Kazhdan/The New York Times (Page B1); Emmanuel Wu, who owns buildings in Williamsburg, has had run-ins with tenants over heating bills. (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (53%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: COMMUNITY TRAINING AND RESOURCE CENTER XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (53%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (53%); LANDLORD SCHOOL (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMUNITY TRAINING AND RESOURCE CENTER LANDLORD SCHOOL (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; LANDLORDS; HEATING; LANDLORD TRAINING PROGRAM REAL ESTATE (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); FINES & PENALTIES (88%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (74%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (74%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (73%); BUILDING & HOUSING CODES (73%); INSPECTIONS (69%); BUILDING & HOUSING INSPECTIONS (68%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (60%); 

PERSON: KENNEDY, RANDY MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1998



293 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 13, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: Balky Conservatives Block House Vote on Republican Anti-Abortion Measure

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 12

 BODY:
Fighting dissension in their own ranks, House Republican leaders today abruptly postponed a vote on legislation that was designed to display their resolve to link an anti-abortion provision to some of the President's chief foreign policy priorities.
Senior Republicans said the delay on a measure authorizing an array of State Department programs as well as nearly $1 billion in back dues to the United Nations did not represent second thoughts on abortion strategy. Instead it was triggered by a rebellion from a sizable band of conservatives who were unwilling to vote for payment of the dues owed to the United Nations. 
 "I've been amazed at the angst at the United Nations," said Representative Christopher H. Smith, the New Jersey Republican who is the author of the abortion restrictions.
Senior Republican aides said that the leadership would try to persuade the balky conservatives by next week to swallow their misgivings on the United Nations in favor of the anti-abortion cause. Anti-abortion groups were also lobbying for the legislation. "We're going to keep working it," Mr. Smith said.
Unless the conservatives drop their opposition, the State Department measure could prove impossible to pass in the House. Democrats are opposing it, as are Republicans who support abortion rights.
Republican leaders also faced problems on what had seemed like a simple, politically attractive bill to pay for troops in Bosnia and the Persian Gulf as well as storm damage at home. An array of Republicans lawmakers were demanding that other domestic programs be cut to offset the emergency spending.
Such a move would most likely provoke a confrontation with President Clinton. But Republican stalwarts said this would test of their seriousness about preserving fiscal discipline. "This, I believe, is the first test of our majority in the new age of balanced budgets," said Representative Jim Nussle, an Iowa Republican.
The abortion battle, too, appeared to be moving the Republicans and the President toward a high-stakes game of political brinksmanship.
Michael D. McCurry, the White House press secretary, today implied that the President would veto any measure with the abortion restrictions even if he lost the money for United Nations dues or for the International Monetary Fund. Democratic leaders in both the House and Senate predicted there would be enough votes to sustain the veto.
Mr. Clinton has won politically in two similar showdowns when the Republicans forced a Government shutdown in 1995 and delayed disaster assistance to flood victims in 1997. But the public might be slower to rally to the President's side over financing for the I.M.F. to contain economic turmoil in Asia or over United Nations dues.
Each side today was gearing up to blame the other if the United States appeared crippled in its ability to play a world leadership role.
Mr. McCurry accused Republicans of looking to "play politics and to gum up the works" on urgent foreign policy needs. And Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin said, "The I.M.F. is critical in terms of the world financial stability."
Congressional Democratic leaders also rallied to Mr. Clinton's side. Senator Tom Daschle, the minority leader, said it is "very difficult for us to ask the United Nations to follow our leadership when we're not willing to pay our dues."
And Richard A. Gephardt, the House minority leader, said Republicans were engaging in "an irresponsible act" by linking anti-abortion provisions to United Nations debt payment and aid to the I.M.F.
For their part, Republicans moved to portray Mr. Clinton as more committed to abortion than to critical elements of his foreign policy. "This should be a no-brainer for the President," said Representative Dick Armey, the House majority leader. "Is he really going to sacrifice his United Nations policy to continue a pro-abortion campaign abroad?"
The standoff is a replay of what happened last November when conservative Republicans insisted on tying a crucial spending bill for foreign affairs programs to a ban on providing money to international family-planning organizations that lobby against abortion restrictions.
When Mr. Clinton threatened to veto the spending bill, Republican leaders dropped the abortion language but also dropped the payments for the United Nations and the I.M.F. in order to placate Mr. Smith and other conservatives.
But that was before the financial crisis in Asia. Senior Administration officials had been lobbying hard in recent months to try to persuade the Republicans to move forward with at least the money for the I.M.F.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (54%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS IOWA REPUBLICAN (91%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (54%); 

SUBJECT: ABORTION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING ABORTION (93%); LEGISLATION (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); VETO (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); NATURAL DISASTERS (76%); LOBBYING (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); DISASTER RELIEF (69%); FLOODS & FLOODING (64%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (60%); 

PERSON: MITCHELL, ALISON; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) CHRIS SMITH (73%); BILL CLINTON (73%); JIM NUSSLE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1998



294 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 13, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1439 words

HEADLINE: SENATE'S MEASURE OFFERS COMMUTERS A BREAK IN TAXES

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN 

 BODY:
A little-noticed provision of a sweeping transportation bill adopted by the United States Senate yesterday would let employers give workers up to $65 a month in tax-free mass-transit benefits instead of salary. Experts said the plan could sharply cut the cost of train, bus and subway travel in the New York metropolitan region and across the country and possibly bring new surges in ridership and transit revenues.
The provision was part of a $214 billion measure to upgrade the nation's highways and transit systems over the next six years, one of the largest public works plans ever. Overcoming weeks of regional conflicts by expanding every state's financing -- and creating huge headaches for budget balancers -- the Senate voted overwhelmingly, 96 to 4, for the bill. 
 The measure calls for spending $171 billion on highway construction programs through 2003, $2 billion on transportation safety programs and $41.3 billion on mass transit. It would raise overall Federal transportation spending by nearly 40 percent, or $60 billion, compared with the previous six-year plan, which expired last year.
The House, which is considering an even more expensive bill, was expected to pass it in some form and send it to President Clinton before May 1, when the current spending law expires.
While the size and sweep of the legislation obscured much of its minutiae, advocates of mass transit in New York applauded the measure as holding out the promise of something for almost everybody: tax breaks and lower commuting costs for employees, tax savings and other incentives for employers, ridership and revenue increases for transit agencies, and yet more reasons for commuters to leave cars at home. Even car poolers could take advantage of the benefits.
The benefits would be made available through a program known in the New York area as Transitchek, a system of vouchers that employers can buy and make available to employees, who redeem them at token booths or ticket windows for commutation tickets, Metrocards or other fare-paying systems. While Transitcheks have been available for years, only 7,000 companies and 150,000 workers now participate.
Experts say the Transitchek program never caught on because employers by law could offer the vouchers only as part of a salary increase and because of limitations on the tax-free benefits.
The measure adopted yesterday contained provisions, largely shepherded by Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, to rectify what he called the inequities. It would authorize employers to give any worker transit benefits in lieu of regular pay, and provided for full tax-free treatment of the mass-transit benefits.
Thus, an employee who took $65 a month in such benefits, would obtain $780 a year in vouchers, but would not see those sums on annual income tax statements and thus pay no Federal, state or city taxes on the $780.
Depending on one's tax bracket, that could save $300 or more a year. Under the bill passed yesterday, the $65 monthly limit on transit benefits would be raised to $100 in 2002.
If the bill passes the House and becomes law by next July, riders in New York could combine the Federally subsidized vouchers with the advantages of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority's monthly passes for unlimited riding. A $63 monthly pass could thus cost as little as $35 after the savings in Federal, state and city income taxes.
"With the new flexibility added by adoption of today's legislation," Senator Moynihan said, "coupled with New York City Transit's introduction of new monthly and weekly unlimited-ride commuter passes later this year, New Yorkers will have the most flexible and comprehensive mass-transit program in the city's history."
Only the Federal Government would lose substantial money on the arrangement. While the program's cost would depend largely on how widely it was used, an official in Senator Moynihan's office said the bulk of the cost would be the loss of employee income-tax revenues, and he said that might be as little as $31 million over 10 years.
Transit advocates were elated by the provision.
"The bottom line is that this will mean substantially lower fares for hundreds of thousands of riders in the metropolitan area and for transit riders across the country," said Gene Russianoff, a lawyer for the Straphangers Campaign, a riders' advocacy group.
If all goes well, Mr. Russianoff said, as many as 500,000 transit riders across the metropolitan area would be participating in the voucher program in a year or two, three to five times as many as currently particpate in Transitchek programs.
He said the city of New York had not offered transit vouchers to its 200,000 employees because it would have to give all a raise to do so and the municipal unions have opposed the program because many city workers who do not use mass transit would have been left out. Mr. Russianoff said the city and the unions might reconsider if the measure became law.
Besides tax benefits and lower fares for employees who choose to participate, employers will see their payrolls cut and their own taxes reduced. Employers pay Social Security taxes and make payments for unemployment insurance and to disability and retirement funds, all based on salary outlays, and these would be reduced accordingly, said Larry Filler, executive director of TransitCenter, which administers the Transitchek program. The savings would be somewhat offset by the costs of administering the program, he noted.
Chris Boylan, deputy executive director of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, also applauded the transit benefits provision of the measure, calling it "terrific" and "wonderful." He said it was as yet unclear what it might mean for transit ridership and revenues, though he said it "certainly will be a positive."
While pleased with the provision, Mr. Boylan said the M.T.A. was greatly encouraged by the overall bill's sharply higher spending for mass transit: $5 billion more than was proposed in committee last fall. The authority currently receives more than $700 million a year in Federal funds for capital projects, including construction and the purchase of subway cars and buses, he said.
Under the bill adopted yesterday, he estimated that the agency would get an additional $150 million to $200 million, and he lavished praise on Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato of New York for helping to engineer the increases. "He was very much alone in his battle," Mr. Boylan said. "This will mean tremendous things for New York and the transit industry in general. We're talking about hundreds of millions of dollars for New York."
In two weeks of spirited horse-trading, it was not only New York's senators who sought and won money for home-state highways, bridges, bus and rail systems. Many senators, especially those representing the South and the West, succeeded, shifting spending away from the Northeast, and pushing costs well above the strict spending limits set by last year's balanced-budget agreement.
Now, Senate budget negotiators will begin searching for ways to offset some of the $31 billion in new spending in the bill. It is unclear where the money might come from, but proposals to expand social programs, cut taxes or reduce the national debt might have to be scaled back to pay for the transportation program. The House faces the same quandary; its version earmarks $4 billion more than the Senate bill.
But the Transportation Secretary, Rodney E. Slater, who watched the Senate vote from the gallery, said afterward that he thought President Clinton would support the expanded transportation spending. "It will be difficult with the budget constraints," he said, "but we can get there."
With spring and the annual return of the construction season about to bloom, governors have warned that Congressional procrastination could delay important highway projects. Representative Bud Shuster, the Pennsylvania Republican who heads the House Transportation Committee, is expected to bring the bill to the floor in early April so negotiations with the Senate can begin well before May 1, when a six-month extension of the last law expires.
The Senate bill was a patchwork of pork-barrel spending intended to silence opposition and win the broadest support. It included $450 million for projects in so-called trade corridors, a favorite of Senator Phil Gramm of Texas; $1.8 billion for the Appalachian Highway that Senator Robert C. Byrd of West Virginia advocates, and, at the behest of Senator John W. Warner of Virginia, $900 million for replacing the Woodrow Wilson Bridge over the Potomac. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK CITY TRANSIT (87%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; UNITED STATES; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: TRANSPORTATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; TRANSIT SYSTEMS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; BUSES; ROADS AND TRAFFIC; SUBWAYS; PUBLIC WORKS URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TRANSPORTATION INDUSTRY LAW (78%); TAX RELIEF (77%); TAX LAW (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); INFRASTRUCTURE (76%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (75%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (75%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); CITIES (71%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (70%); 

PERSON: MCFADDEN, ROBERT D BILL CLINTON (55%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1998



295 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 13, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1512 words

HEADLINE: Canada No Safe Haven for Birds or Bears

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA 

DATELINE: DESOLATION SOUND, British Columbia

 BODY:
The venerable yellow cedars near here hold one of the world's great concentrations of nesting sites for the marbled murrelet, a secretive bird equally at home in the old-growth forest and on the sea.
The robin-sized murrelet is on the endangered-species lists in both Canada and the United States, primarily because logging is destroying its habitat. 
 South of the border, the giant trees where the bird makes its home in moss-covered branches high off the ground are strictly guarded. But in British Columbia they are often fair game to logging operations. Last spring, despite the efforts of environmental officials, crews cleared a mountaintop here that held several nesting sites.
The loggers did leave a 100-foot cedar that held a nest designated by scientists No. 17, and a younger tree alongside. The trees stand like sentinels now on an otherwise bare knob, and they are so exposed that researchers doubt the murrelets will return.
The failed attempt to save the cedars underscores the state of endangered-species protection in Canada. While the Government has assembled a list of 291 species of animals, birds, insects and plants that are endangered, it has not so far passed legislation that protects them.
"It's like a hospital that registers its patients but doesn't treat them," said Stewart A. G. Elgie, managing lawyer for the Sierra Legal Defense Fund in Toronto. "We identify the species at risk, diagnose what's wrong, but then we don't treat them. It's absurd."
Environmentalists say that Canada's lack of endangered-species legislation jeopardizes longstanding efforts in the United States to shield animals that cross the border. For instance, grizzly bears in the Western United States are protected, but they can be hunted if they cross into the Canadian provinces of Alberta and British Columbia.
"I have had bears that range into Alberta and have been lost," said Michael J. Madel, who runs the Grizzly Bear Management Program for the Montana Department of Fish, Wildlife and Parks. The radio collar signals "just disappear," he said. "It's not a good sign."
Environmental groups in Mexico and the United States filed a complaint in January with the environmental commission of the North American Free Trade Agreement charging Canada with failing to protect its endangered species.
And in February 1997, 130 American environmental organizations signed a letter asking Vice President Al Gore to encourage the Canadian Government to pass an endangered-species bill then being considered by the Canadian Parliament.
But when Prime Minister Jean Chretien called an election last spring, all pending legislation effectively died. To be considered again, the bill would have to be reintroduced in the new Parliament.
So far, with a new Environment Minister in place, the Government has moved slowly. Although officials at one point said legislation would be ready for consideration in June, they now say they have no idea when a new version of the endangered species act will be introduced.
Such hesitation can seem strange in a country with a reputation for environmental awareness. Opinion polls show that 94 percent of Canadians support laws to protect endangered wildlife. But the problem lies in a more traditional dispute over where power lies.
Canada's 10 provinces dig in their heels any time the Federal Government in Ottawa tries to exercise its power. All provinces have gained strength over the last 30 years as Ottawa has tried to soothe separatists in Quebec by keeping decision-making local.
Environmentalists saw last year's endangered-species legislation as weak and only minimally effective. They said it would have protected the habitat of endangered species only on federal lands, and would have applied only to those species that do not cross any borders. Still, the provinces strenuously objected to it and rejected any Federal attempt to control local land use -- for instance, protecting the areas where endangered species live.
Hovering like a black cloud over the debate are perceptions of the American experience over the 25 years since Washington passed the Endangered Species Act.
Jack Munro, chairman of the Forest Alliance of British Columbia, a logging trade group, wrote, "British Columbians only have to look across the border to see the kind of human devastation that can result from poorly reasoned actions considered necessary to protect endangered species." In newspaper columns opposing the Canadian proposal last year, Mr. Munro said the American legislation had produced only modest conservation benefits, while costing thousands of logging jobs to save species like the spotted owl.
Environmentalists say that one reason endangered-species legislation has not passed is that Canadians find it hard to believe that with so much open space, and so few people, species could be in trouble.
As David R. Boyd, head of the Sierra Legal Defense Fund in Vancouver, put it: "The general perception among a majority of the population is just one of, 'How can there be environmental problems?' "
A group of scientists on the Committee on the Status of Endangered Wildlife in Canada put together and updates the list, which now includes 291 endangered or threatened species, with another 23 already extinct.
Without clear information on nesting, it has been hard to estimate the population of marbled murrelets. Biologists generally believe there are around 30,000 in British Columbia. But the Committee on the Status of Wildlife in Canada found that if logging continued at the current rate, the marbled murrelet could be extinct in "a matter of decades."
Ontario, Quebec, New Brunswick and Manitoba have their own endangered-species legislation, though environmentalists consider them inadequate. In British Columbia, officials rely on an overlapping network of laws, and the Forestry Practices Code that governs the logging industry, to protect species and habitat.
"The position of the B.C. government is that we will not have stand-alone endangered-species legislation," said James H. Walker, senior land use adviser to the British Columbia ministry of environment. "But the other laws and acts, taken together, provide as much as or more protection than any single piece of legislation."
Mr. Walker said British Columbia listed only 4 of more than 700 vertebrate species in the province as endangered and another 41, including the marbled murrelet, as at risk.
But environmentalists say the loss of habitat accounts for 80 percent of species decline. Thus conservation often becomes an economic issue, especially in resource-rich provinces like British Columbia, where logging is one of the most important industries. Experts say species protection cannot stand up to economic interests, as shown by what happened at Desolation Sound last spring.
"The province depends on revenues from lumber to balance its budget," said Fred Cooke, a biology professor at Simon Fraser University who studies bird population and wildlife ecology. One of his projects, a three-year effort at Desolation Sound, was interrupted last year by the logging.
The province's ministry of environment tried to protect the forest tracts near Desolation Sound because the 32 nests found in the area were a surprisingly rich research site. Until 1990 no murrelet nests had been found in Canada.
Despite the ministry's efforts, the ministry of forests had already granted logging permits and refused to revoke them.
"Ultimately," Mr. Cooke said, "there is a real conflict between environmental issues, long-term benefits and the immediate need to generate revenues."
Federal officials say they are aware of the potential weaknesses of provincial laws but reluctant to intrude on local turf.
Steven G. Curtis, associate director general of the Canadian Wildlife Service, a branch of the federal Ministry of the Environment, said, "The principal concern was that in the draft piece of legislation, the federal Government had taken onto itself perhaps more authority than the provinces considered desirable or necessary to do a sufficient job."
In particular, provinces objected to a section of the bill that would have allowed the federal Government to step in to protect wildlife habitat if provincial efforts were considered inadequate. That provision is expected to be taken out of a new version.
Mr. Boyd of the Sierra Legal Defense Fund and other environmentalists fear this version will be weakened to the point of uselessness. The Government disagrees.
"Some people will see it that way," Mr. Curtis, "but no final decisions have been made, and the minister is considering various options for trying to address or accommodate concerns."
Mr. Curtis added that the new bill was also likely to retain some provisions that environmentalists objected to, including one that lets the federal Cabinet -- not scientists -- designate endangered species.
"There's so much animosity in the United States over the listing of species," Mr. Curtis said. "We're hoping to avoid some of that."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Two trees used by the marbled murrelet, marked with wildlife signs, were left by loggers. (Photographs by Todd Korol for The New York Times)(pg. A1); Canada designates endangered species, but fails to protect them. A yellow cedar near Desolation Sound was left standing by loggers, but since the tree is so exposed, bird experts doubt the marbled murrelets will return. (Todd Korol for The New York Times)(pg. A12)
 
Map of canada showing location of Desolation Sound: Logging near Desolation Sound threatens a rare bird. (pg. A12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); MEXICO (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (91%); ALBERTA, CANADA (90%); ONTARIO, CANADA (79%); WEST USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (59%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (59%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA; BRITISH COLUMBIA (CANADA); MEXICO; CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); MEXICO (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (91%); ALBERTA, CANADA (90%); ONTARIO, CANADA (79%); WEST USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ENDANGERED AND EXTINCT SPECIES; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT; GRIZZLY BEARS; BIRDS; INSECTS; FLOWERS AND PLANTS; BEARS ENDANGERED SPECIES (91%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (90%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); BIRDS (90%); WILDLIFE (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); MAMMALS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (89%); ANIMALS (89%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (78%); BIOLOGY (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (76%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (71%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); PRIME MINISTERS (67%); LAWYERS (66%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (65%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%); 

PERSON: DEPALMA, ANTHONY AL GORE (56%); JEAN CHRETIEN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1998



296 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 13, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 139 words

HEADLINE: Plan on Immigration Misses Point;
Time to Act Now

 BODY:

To the Editor:
As one of the national leaders of the Sierra Club effort to restore an immigration component to the club's population policy, I agree with much of what Bill McKibben writes (Op-Ed, March 9).
We stress that only a comprehensive approach to environmental problems can succeed. We must reduce United States consumption by making our economy more efficient in its use of resources; reduce population growth, birthrates and immigration rates, and support aid that slows worldwide population growth and promotes sustainable development. 
 Where we disagree with Mr. McKibben is in his notion that efforts to address immigration must wait until the other factors are tackled.
 
DICK SCHNEIDER
Oakland, Calif., March 9, 1998
 
The writer is chairman of Sierrans for U.S. Population Stabilization.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Thomas Fuchs)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: SIERRA CLUB SIERRA CLUB (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: SIERRA CLUB SIERRA CLUB (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ENVIRONMENT IMMIGRATION (92%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); POPULATION GROWTH (88%); REFUGEES (88%); WRITERS (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (70%); 

PERSON: SCHNEIDER, DICK BILL MCKIBBEN (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1998



297 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 13, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 11; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 295 words

HEADLINE: Metro Business;
Group Surveys Nightclubs

BYLINE: TERRY PRISTIN 

 BODY:
The New York nightclub industry pumped $2.8 billion into the city's economy last year and accounted for 27,040 jobs and $800 million in wages, according to a study that was released yesterday.
The report was commissioned by the New York Nightlife Association, a coalition formed in 1996 for the purpose of improving the industry's image and furthering communication between the clubs and neighborhood organizations. 
 The study suggested that the clubs attract a more affluent and civic-minded clientele than even the club owners themselves had realized, said Andrew Rasiej (pronounced Ra-Shea), the president of the nightlife association. The average age of patrons is 27 years old, their mean income is $44,000, and 79 percent of those surveyed claimed to have voted last November, the report said. Computers, communications and finance were among the most prevalent occupations.
The scope of the survey was limited to the 250 licensed cabarets and places that regularly present live music. The report, prepared by George A. Wachtel, the president of Audience Research and Analysis, a consulting company, was based on 685 interviews conducted at nine clubs throughout the city between July and January.
Mr. Rasiej, whose organization represents 75 clubs, said he hoped the study would correct some perceptions about the industry. City officials and community groups have complained about drug use, violence and other illegal activities at many clubs.
Commenting on the report, Deputy Mayor Rudy Washington said: "They're trying to make the argument that they're important, but I'm more concerned with their wanting to police themselves.
"Good establishments," he added, "need not worry about a crackdown on the part of the city." TERRY PRISTIN

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK NIGHTLIFE ASSN; AUDIENCE RESEARCH AND ANALYSIS NEW YORK NIGHTLIFE ASSOCIATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK NIGHTLIFE ASSN; AUDIENCE RESEARCH AND ANALYSIS

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; NIGHTCLUBS AND CABARETS; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES WAGES & SALARIES (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CITIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); TRENDS (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); 

PERSON: PRISTIN, TERRY; WACHTEL, GEORGE A MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1998



298 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 13, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
Strong Retail Sales Report Pushes Share Prices Higher

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

 BODY:
Most major stock indexes reversed early losses yesterday and ended higher, helped by more good news on the economy and further indications that the robust demand for shares is showing few signs of slowing down.
 
 Although share prices stumbled at the opening bell, the stock market gained throughout the day, buoyed in part by reports of solid economic growth and falling yields in the bond market, which made the returns on stocks look more attractive.
 The Government said yesterday that retail sales were strong in January and February, more evidence that the American economy continues to grow despite the threat of a slowdown related to the economic and financial turmoil in Asia.
 Yields in the bond market, which tend to rise on such news, weakened instead as investors shrugged off the increased risk of inflation. The yield on the benchmark 30-year Treasury bond fell to 5.86 percent form 5.94 a day earlier.
 Those factors helped send the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index up another 1.45 points, to 1,069.92, its third consecutive record high. The Russell 2000 index of smaller-company stocks also set a record, gaining 0.65 point to close at 467.77. The Nasdaq composite rose 7.21 points, to 1,764.06.
 The Dow Jones industrial average - which dropped by as many as 64 points early in the day - rallied near the close but still ended 16.19 points lower at 8,659.56.
 Yesterday's modest gains and narrow losses are an inaccurate snap-shot of the broader stock market, where share prices have been strengthening for nearly two months.
 The run-up has now carried all the major indexes to all-time highs in recent weeks, reflecting a flurry of mergers and acquisitions and optmism that investors, small and large continue to believe that stocks are the best single investment.
 "The small investor and the small institution are continuing to buy," said Laszlo Biringyi, president of Birinyi Associates, a market research firm in Greenwich, Conn. "We don't know what their intentions are, or how deep their pockets are, but the guys whoa re doing the buying are the small guys."
 Mr. Birinyi, who late last year forecast that the Dow could reach 10,000 by the end of 1998, is now basking in the glow of that prediction. His studies of retail money flows, he said, are pointing to smaller investors who seem eager to buy up the big-name companies.
 "People didn't pay enough attention to sentiment," Mr. Birinyi said. "But I'm a great believer in listening to the market, and it has been the smaller, marginal buyer who is at work."
 If it is the small investor at work in the market, that same investor also may be driving robust consumer spending. In February, retail sales jumped five-tenths of 1 percent from a month ago. Indeed, shares of retail stocks have been soaring on the prospects of even stronger growth.
 The S. & P. index of retail stocks is up 22 percent this year, and the Dow's two leading performers are the retail giants Wal-Mart and Sears, Roebuck up 30 and 27 percent. The Gap Inc. - which also operates Banana Republic and Old Navy Clothing - is also soaring, up 33 percent, and shares of Dayton Hudson, which operates Target stores and Mervyn's, are up 24 percent.
 Richard B. Hoey, chief economist at the Dreyfus Corporation, said that one factor driving retail sales and stock prices might be falling oil prices. A barrel of oil now costs less than $15 - the lowest level in four years.
 Mr. Hoey - who notes that bear-market spells in 1974, 1981 and 1990 all coincided with soaring oil prices - said lower oil prices were akin to a tax cut, since they gave consumers all over the world more spending money. "People are spending less money on heating oil and gas," he said. "You'll see that financial markets usually benefit from falling oil prices."
 But a larger factor, he said, is the fact that the market selloff last October over the Asian economic crisis was too severe, and now investors are feeling more confident.
 This year alone, the Dow is up 9.5 percent and the S. & P. 500 is up 10.3 percent. The Dow, in fact, has gained nearly 1,500 points, or 21 percent, since the Oct. 27 selloff that dropped the blue-chip average to 7,161.15
 "The market's been persistently strong since then," Mr. Hoey said. "It's been a pretty favorable market for our funds."

GRAPHIC: Graph: Graph shows the Dow Jones Industrial Average daily closes for the months of March 1997 through March 1998. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (55%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (55%); DOW JONES & CO INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. STOCK INDEXES (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); RETAIL SALES (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (88%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); MERGERS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); CONSUMER SPENDING (73%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); TREASURY SECURITIES (71%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1998



299 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 37 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:
DOLLAR WEAKENS. The dollar fell on United States stock and bond losses and on hope that Japan would stimulate its economy. In New York the dollar cost 1.8185 marks and 128.15 yen, down from 1.8272 marks and 129.32 yen.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks German Mark to the Dollar, since September. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (90%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; JAPAN; UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (90%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY US DOLLAR (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1998



300 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 371 words

HEADLINE: Producer Prices Dropped Again In February

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 13

 BODY:
Producer prices fell in February for the fourth consecutive month, led by more steep declines in energy costs.
The Labor Department said today that the prices, which are paid to such producers as factories and food processors, declined one-tenth of 1 percent last month. In January, prices tumbled seven-tenths of 1 percent, the biggest one-month drop in more than four years. 
 Producer prices have decreased or remained unchanged during 12 of the last 14 months. Over the last 12 months, they have fallen 1.6 percent.
The price drop for finished goods bought by wholesalers, combined with moderate price increases for services, has translated into price stability for American consumers.
"Inflation won't make the radar screen in the near future," said William C. Dunkelberg, economist at the National Federation for Independent Business.
A second economic report today showed an indication of slowness. The Commerce Department said inventories at the nation's businesses were unchanged in January from December, while sales fell one-tenth of 1 percent.
Energy prices declined 1.8 percent in February after having decreased 3.7 percent in January. They also fell most of last year. The prices are being held down by El Nino, which brought unseasonably warm weather to much of the United States, and by falling demand from Asia because of the region's economic problems.
However, floods and storms from the same ocean-tide phenomenon have drowned vegetable crops in California and pushed food prices higher. Food prices rose four-tenths of 1 percent in February. Vegetable prices alone climbed 3.9 percent.
Excluding the volatile food and energy sectors, prices edged up one-tenth of 1 percent last month, the first increase in the core rate in four months. A 2.1 percent increase in wholesale cigarette costs accounted for the increase.
Computer prices dropped 6.6 percent, the largest one-month decline ever. The cost of computers and other electronic products is expected to fall further, partly because sharp currency devaluations have permitted Asian chip and component producers to slash export prices.
Auto prices fell three-tenths of 1 percent, but light-truck prices rose one-tenth of 1 percent.

GRAPHIC: Charts: "Producer Prices"
Chart shows an index of finished goods prices, 1982 = 100. Seasonally adjusted from September 1996 through February 1998. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)
 
"Inventory-Sales Ratio"
Chart shows total month-end business inventories divided by total monthly business sales, seasonally adjusted from August 1996 through January 1998. Also shown are business inventories and sales figures (in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted) for January and December. (Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRODUCER PRICE INDEX; INVENTORIES (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); SALES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) PRODUCER PRICES (92%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); FOOD PRICES (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (79%); VEGETABLE & MELON FARMING (79%); SALES FIGURES (79%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (79%); PRICE CUTTING (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); EL NINO & LA NINA (71%); WEATHER (71%); DEVALUATION (65%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%); CURRENCIES (50%); EXPORT TRADE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1998



301 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: Yale Brozen, 80, Economist And Advocate of Free Markets

BYLINE: By REED ABELSON 

 BODY:
Yale Brozen, a retired professor of business economics who was a vocal critic of government regulation, died on March 4 at his home in San Diego. He was 80.
Mr. Brozen was suffering from heart disease, according to his wife, Katherine Hart Brozen. 
 A member of the so-called Chicago school of economics, which advocates a free-market approach to the economy, Mr. Brozen wrote and spoke extensively about regulation and antitrust issues.
In addition to spending three decades at the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business, Mr. Brozen also served as a consultant to numerous corporations and government agencies, including AT&T, General Motors and the antitrust division of the Department of Justice.
"He had a great ability to understand how to apply microeconomic theory and thinking to everyday situations, government situations and business situations," said Gary D. Eppen, a professor of operations management at Chicago.
In making his case against government interference, Mr. Brozen could often be outspoken, both in and out of the classroom. "He always expressed himself very forcefully," recalled Merton H. Miller, a professor emeritus of finance at Chicago. Mr. Brozen was a strong representative of the Chicago school, he said, along with such well-known economists as Milton Friedman and George Stigler.
One of Mr. Brozen's most ardent attacks on government intervention was during the early 1970's. The Federal Trade Commission had charged the ITT Continental Baking Company, the makers of Wonder Bread, with false advertising over its claim that the bread "helps build strong bodies 12 ways," because other bread makers could make the same claim.
While serving as a consultant to the public relations firm employed by the company, Mr. Brozen made speeches sharply critical of the agency's actions, which he likened to "shades of the Salem witch trials" and characterized as "an obvious bit of foolishness."
Mr. Brozen's attack on the agency's position, which he argued would force companies to promote a competitor's product in their advertising, was echoed by others seeking to defend advertisers and prompted a sharp response from the agency.
But the F.T.C. was hardly Mr. Brozen's only target. A proponent of fiscal conservatism, he spoke out on a variety of topics, ranging from the energy crisis to the Federal budget deficit. When describing the budget proposed by President Jimmy Carter in an opinion piece in the Sunday Business section of The New York Times in 1978, for example, he called the President's behavior "absolutely unprecedented and utterly irresponsible."
Mr. Brozen "was never interested in being politically correct or popular," Mr. Eppen said.
Before joining the University of Chicago in 1957, where he directed the school's programs in applied economics and research and development administration, Mr. Brozen taught at Northwestern University. He was also an adjunct scholar at the American Enterprise Institute for Public Policy Research.
Born in Kansas City, Mo., Mr. Brozen attended Kansas City Community College in the mid-1930's. He received two bachelor's degrees, one from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and the other from the University of Chicago. He earned his Ph.D. in economics from the University of Chicago in 1942. During World War II, he was the director of the radar and telephone maintenance training program in the Army Signal Corps.
In addition to his wife, he is survived by his two sons, Yale Brozen 2d of Rochester, Vt., and Dr. Reed Brozen of Hanover, N.H., and a sister, Geraldine Weiner of Kansas City, Mo.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Yale Brozen (Ted Lacey)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

INDUSTRY: NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (66%); SIC2051 BREAD & OTHER BAKERY PRODUCTS, EXCEPT COOKIES & CRACKERS (66%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CONTINENTAL BAKING CO (66%); AT&T GENERAL BUSINESS SYSTEMS (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE ANTITRUST DIVISION (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (57%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (54%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE ANTITRUST DIVISION (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (57%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (54%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); CONSERVATISM (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (70%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (70%); FALSE OR MISLEADING ADVERTISING (70%); COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (69%); BAKERIES (69%); US PRESIDENTS (60%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (60%); NATIONAL DEBT (50%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: BROZEN, YALE (PROF); ABELSON, REED JIMMY CARTER (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1998



302 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 5; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 597 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Urges Asia Investors To Aid Lands Like Thailand

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 13

 BODY:
Offering Thailand as an example of proper economic management, President Clinton warned today that investors could throw Southeast Asia "into a long-term recession" if they fail to reward the countries that are effectively grappling with the financial crisis there.
Asked if the worst of the Asian crisis was past, Mr. Clinton said he was not sure. But he said: "I think what we're beginning to see is a differentiation on the part of the markets in dealing with these different countries. And that's what, first and foremost, I would like to see." 
 Mr. Clinton spoke briefly with reporters as he met in the Oval Office today with the Thai Prime Minister, Chuan Leekpai. As expected, the President agreed today to release the Thai Government from a contract to buy American-made jet fighters that it can no longer afford.
Mr. Chuan is visiting Washington and New York seeking investment and improved credit ratings for his country in exchange for the stiff measures he has taken, ranging from closing dozens of finance companies to slashing spending and raising taxes. Thailand turned last year to the International Monetary Fund for a bailout after its currency collapsed.
In total, the Administration said it had assembled a package of aid worth about $1.7 billion for Thailand this year, including trade assistance and investment in power projects.
Thailand had been particularly anxious for relief on the fighter contract, a $392 million deal for eight F/ A-18's, together with spare parts and training. The Thais have paid $75 million so far, but have not received any of the planes, which cost a total of $325 million. The Administration today agreed to pay the remaining $250 million and take the planes, which are made by the Boeing Company.
The planes will probably go to the Marines, although the Administration is considering finding another foreign buyer. Because the planes have not yet come off Boeing's assembly lines in St. Louis, they can still be built to the more advanced American standard, officials said, rather than to the export standard.
Appearing with Mr. Clinton, Mr. Chuan said Thailand was "undergoing a period of financial and economic crisis." He added, "During this time of need, we appreciate the help and support of our friends." The two leaders met for two hours today, including a lunch meeting.
In response to questions today, Mr. Clinton outlined some of his foreign travel plans, suggesting that he might visit Northern Ireland as part of a European tour in May. He said he would decide to make that stop based on the state of the peace effort and "whether I could make any kind of constructive contribution."
He said he did not plan to visit Russia until after Parliament approved the Start II nuclear arms control treaty.
Mr. Clinton also said today that he had decided to move up this year's visit to China from November to late June after his advisers said he should capitalize on President Jiang Zemin's visit here last October. "Our relationship with China is so important that we needed to try to build on it and make some more progress," he said.
The President is planning to leave at the end of next week for a two-week trip to Africa. At a fund-raiser here on Thursday night, he made what appeared to be a dismissive remark about President Jimmy Carter's 1978 trip to Africa, saying, "No President's ever made a serious trip to Africa."
Michael D. McCurry, the White House press secretary, said Mr. Clinton meant that no other President had gone to the sub-Saharan countries that he is planning to visit.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (84%); BAB (BRU) (84%); BA (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (84%); 

COUNTRY: THAILAND (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (93%); EUROPE (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: THAILAND; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; THAILAND (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (93%); EUROPE (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; MILITARY AIRCRAFT; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ARMS SALES ABROAD; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (82%); BAILOUTS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); ARMS TRADE (73%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (73%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (73%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (73%); LEGISLATION (72%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); APPROVALS (69%); AIRLINES (68%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (66%); CURRENCIES (66%); TRENDS (64%); PEACE PROCESS (63%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (61%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (60%); 

PERSON: BENNET, JAMES; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); CHUAN LEEKPAI (PRIME MIN) BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1998



303 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 212 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
Price Dip Ends Weeklong Rally

 BODY:
The prices of Treasury securities turned lower yesterday for the first time in six days, as the market encountered buyer reluctance to pay more for Government bonds without seeing further evidence of slowing economic growth.
The decline came despite a report indicating that robust growth had not shown up in producer prices. The Producer Price Index fell in February for the fourth consecutive month, dropping by one-tenth of 1 percent. Investors apparently focused instead on a rise of one-tenth of 1 percent in the so-called core rate of producer prices, which excludes volatile food and energy prices. Selling also accelerated after comments from a Federal Reserve official raised concern about inflation. 
 The price of the 30-year bond fell 3/8, to 103 5/16, and the yield, which moves in the opposite direction, rose to 5.89 percent, from 5.86 percent the previous day.
Bond prices slumped further after William J. McDonough, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, warned that inflation could reappear.
In a speech to the New Jersey Bankers Association in Palm Beach, Fla., Mr. McDonough said that without more gains in productivity, "it is very likely that if the economy continues to grow this rapidly we will have some cost pressures."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (69%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS BONDS (94%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); PRODUCER PRICES (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); PRODUCTIVITY (50%); 

PERSON: WILLIAM J MCDONOUGH (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1998



304 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 647 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Technology Stocks Rally, But Market Finishes Mixed
Stocks ended with a mixed showing yesterday, hurt by losses in consumer-product shares on a plunge in Kimberly-Clark, but helped by gains in small-company issues and further strength in technology shares, which extended their rebound from last week. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 57.04 points, to 8,602.52, but gained 33.13 points for the week. The technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index rose 7.60 points, to 1,771.66, up 18.17 points for the week. The Russell 2000 index of small-company shares reached its third consecutive record, up 1 point, to 468.77, and up 5.05 points for the week. Page D3.
 
Treasury bond prices fell for the first time in six days, reflecting buyer reticence to pay more without further signs of slowing economic growth. The benchmark 30-year bond yield rose to 5.89 percent from 5.86. D3.
 
Trade Showdown Over Beef
The European Union said it would not drop an import ban on hormone-treated beef despite rulings by the World Trade Organization that the 10-year-old prohibition is illegal. The United States, where most cattle is bred with hormones, denounced the European move, which marked a major test over how the four-year-old international trade tribunal's decisions in disputes could be enforced. D2.
 
Producer Prices Fall Again
Producer prices fell by one-tenth of 1 percent in February, the fourth consecutive month of declines, led by continued steep drops in energy costs. The Government also reported that business inventories were unchanged in January from December, while sales fell one-tenth of 1 percent. D2.
 
Contraction in Japan's Economy
Japan's economy contracted at an annual rate of seven-tenths of 1 percent in 1997's fourth quarter, and the Government conceded that even its minimal growth target for the current fiscal year might be too optimistic. D2.
 
British Buy Mail-Order Company
Great Universal Stores, a British home shopping company, will pay $831 million or $31.50 a share for Metromail, an Illinois mail-order concern. Metromail shares rose nearly 22 percent on the news. D3.
 
Financing Deal in Thailand
Nakornthai Strip Mill of Thailand signed a $650 million financing package, which its arrangers called the biggest for a Thai company since the Asia economic crisis began last year. Participants include the financier George Soros, whose dealings in Asian currencies were blamed by some Asian leaders for contributing to the original crisis. D2.
 
Indonesia's new Cabinet is likely to set back hopes that reforms demanded by international lenders will be vigorously carried out. A5.
 
Sega Zaps Saturn
Hurt by stiff competition from Sony and Nintendo, Sega Enterprises yanked its Sega Saturn video game console from the United States market and expects to report a $254 million fiscal-year loss. Sega Saturn suffered from poor sales as a result of its $400 cost and the limited number of games. Even Sega's highly popular "Sonic the Hedgehog" game was not sold for Sega Saturn until 1996, nearly a year after the machine was introduced. D2.
 
Warner to Publish Gates Book
William H. Gates, Microsoft's chairman, has reached a tentative agreement with Warner Books to publish his second book, which will focus on how the leading software maker applies its technology in running the company's own business. D3.
 
Gangsta Rapper Changes Labels
Snoop Doggy Dogg, one of the biggest gangsta rappers, who helped build the Death Row label, has signed with No Limit Records, the label run by Master P, one of hip-hop's most successful executives. The change followed Snoop Doggy Dogg's assertions that he was cheated by Death Row, which is under a Justice Department investigation over its violent business tactics. D12.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 8,602.52 down 57.04
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.89% up 0.03
The Dollar -- 128.15 down 1.17

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: KMB (NYSE) (58%); 7974 (TSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (58%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (58%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (92%); JAPAN (92%); THAILAND (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); INDONESIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

COMPANY: KIMBERLY-CLARK CORP (58%); GREAT UNIVERSAL STORES PLC (52%); NINTENDO CO LTD (50%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (92%); JAPAN (92%); THAILAND (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); INDONESIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (91%); PAPER MFG (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); PRODUCER PRICES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); BONDS (90%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); BEEF (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (74%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); CURRENCIES (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); INVENTORIES (68%); IMPORT CONTROLS (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE COURTS (67%); EUROPEAN UNION (67%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (66%); NONSTORE RETAILERS (61%); COMPUTER GAMES (60%); ELECTRONIC GAME EQUIPMENT (60%); FOREIGN LENDING (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE SOROS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1998



305 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1606 words

HEADLINE: Veterans Fear a Budget Squeeze Will Hamper Hospital Care

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER 

DATELINE: BERNARDS TOWNSHIP, N.J.

 BODY:
It is hard to tell in the gnarled faces and hobbled steps of the men who come to Lyons Veterans Hospital here that they were once vigorous enough to fight at infernal places like Omaha Beach and the Ardennes Forest. Increasingly, they find themselves having to remind people of what they have been through and of the country's promise to provide them with decent medical care.
On a recent morning, a stroke-hampered veteran was waiting in a wheelchair outside the office of Joseph L. Klapper, an ombudsman for patients. The gruff-voiced Mr. Klapper could be heard berating hospital administrators for delaying the veteran's application for home care and physical therapy. 
 "This man was a fighter pilot," Mr. Klapper bellowed. "When are you going to have his paperwork done?"
Veterans' hospitals in the Northeast have already had their budgets cut to provide more money for hospitals with growing numbers of veterans, like those in the South. But soon, V.A. hospitals all over the country will be feeling the squeeze, as Federal spending on veterans' hospitals will be frozen for the next five years.
The veterans who use Lyons Hospital have watched with alarm as the budgets for the eight veterans' hospitals in northern New Jersey and southern New York have been cut by $130 million during the last two years, a reduction of more than 10 percent. By Oct. 1, an additional $80 million in new cuts will be required.
The veterans and the organizations that represent them say there has already been a significant falloff in medical care: longer waits to see specialists, treatment by nurse practitioners rather than doctors, more scrutiny before getting approval to see a doctor or have medication prescribed.
Their concerns come at a watershed moment for the country's 172 veterans' hospitals, a time when the entire system is shrinking. Partly this is a result of a decision by the President and Congress to freeze spending at the hospitals through the year 2002, despite rising salaries and inflation.
But more important, perhaps, is the decision by Federal agencies to bring the hospitals into the era of managed care, by shifting from hospitalization to treatment in outpatient clinics, or in the case of mental patients, in community residences.
Much of the retrenchment already seen in the Northeast is from a national decision to try to equalize per-veteran spending for each region. As a result, money has been shifted from Northeastern and Middle Western States to the South and West, where more of the nation's 25 million veterans now live.
These changes are a response to decades of criticism of veterans' hospitals, with outside and internal reports charging that they are underused, antiquated, mismanaged, ripe for abuse by veterans who were not wounded in combat, bloated with Congressional pork and twice as costly as private hospitals.
As the veterans of World War II age and die, the Department of Veterans Affairs has been able to make changes that just a few years ago would have seemed unthinkable.
During the last three years, it has eliminated 22,000 beds -- 42 percent of the national system's acute-care beds -- and trimmed its health work force by 23,000. It has consolidated the administration of 42 hospitals into 20 and opened 144 satellite clinics to make it more convenient for veterans to get preventive care.
Like most health maintenance organizations, the agency has assigned patients to a single primary care doctor to direct visits to specialists. Starting in 1990, the veterans department allowed hospitals to recover money from private insurers for disabilities that did not originate during military duty. Now the department is seeking Congressional approval to recover money from veterans covered by Medicare. It has even begun to allow outside medical providers to use its equipment, for a fee.
Some observers say the cuts reflect changing national attitudes. David Rosner, a professor of health history at the Columbia School of Public Health, said the "erosion of the Veterans Administration has as much to do with our questioning of the value of the Vietnam War and our questioning of the military."
Whatever the causes, there is palpable anxiety among veterans who had generally been pleased with their care in a clubby environment where people appreciate what it means to have been in combat. Myron Swack, 73, a World War II veteran, has been waiting more than three months for special shoes prescribed for feet that swell up as a result of the frostbite he suffered in the Battle of the Bulge.
"All the processes at the hospital have been slowed down," said Mr. Swack, a retired professor of special education. "If they cut it any more, it will be a disaster."
Another veteran, a 72-year-old Jersey City man who received a diagnosis of paranoid schizophrenia in 1945 who has been hospitalized for 12 years, was recently told he would be released to a community residence. His family, who wants him identified only as Jim, said he was not prepared for the change.
"Obviously, it's a result of cutbacks," said his sister, Mary Lou. "After 12 years, what can it be? He's not any better than he used to be."
The veterans' hospitals are the country's largest hospital system. They were largely built before 1970, when there were few private insurers and little government subsidies for health care.
The system grew with bipartisan support from a Congress eager to keep hospitals and the jobs they provide and to please powerful veterans' groups. Most of its beds are filled with poor, chronically ill men, with roughly 30 percent of the beds occupied by psychiatric care patients traumatized by war.
An unwieldy bureaucracy's confusing eligibility standards make it easy both to provide undeserved care and to deny the deserving. Dr. Kenneth W. Kizer, undersecretary of health in the Department of Veterans Affairs, pointed out that a tangle of arcane laws required costly hospitalizations for the most elementary forms of treatment.
"If you sprained your ankle and you needed crutches, because crutches are a prosthetic device, you had to be admitted to get that service," he said.
The National Center for Policy Analysis, a Dallas research center, has been among many critics that say the system should be sold or closed down, with veterans wounded in combat given vouchers to pay for private care. Ninety percent of veterans, the policy center pointed out, already choose not to use the V.A. hospitals.
But supporters say the hospitals have cultivated specialties that private hospitals cannot match in the treatment of combat stress, amputation, and spinal cord injuries. The hospitals have pioneered dialysis, liver transplants and the use of pacemakers and have provided at least some training to most American doctors.
Dr. Rosner questions the wisdom of turning responsibility for veterans' health to private insurers.
"What happens in 5 or 10 years when we've handed all responsibility over to private interests and we have no ability to decide who they're going to cut out from private service?" he asked. "In New Jersey, Oxford decided to stop serving Medicaid clients. Is it unreasonable that with veterans the same situation will arise?"
But treatment at the V.A. hospitals already seems to be suffering because of budget cuts. In January, a report by the V.A.'s Office of the Medical Inspector attributed a sizable proportion of deaths at Montrose and Castle Point hospitals in the Hudson Valley to poor or marginal care caused in part by rapid staff turnover.
In an interview, James Farsetta, the director of the network that includes the eight hospitals in southern New York and northern New Jersey, defended the region's care, noting that the hospitals have received strong evaluations by the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Health Care Organizations, and that patient surveys have been positive.
Rejecting specific complaints at his hospitals, Kenneth Mizrach, director of the merged hospitals at Lyons and East Orange, said discharged mental patients were closely followed and, with medication, were able to thrive outside the confines of locked wards. With a reduction in beds, staffing ratios were essentially unchanged, he said, and waits for some specialists had actually decreased.
There are, however, indications of strain on the system.
Verlia Jones, the new president of the hospital's union, Local 1012 of the American Federation of Government Employees, said Lyons has lost 18 nurses, doubling the patient load in some wards. In the hospital's nursing home, she said, a single nursing assistant must feed, bathe and change the diapers of 20 sick and elderly patients.
"The care hasn't fallen off, but the staff is tired," she said.
Norm Fellman, a Lyons volunteer, recalled entering the room of a former World War II prisoner of war who was bedridden and paralyzed on one side.
"The man's in terror," he said. "His breakfast is on the windowsill and he can't reach it and when he rings the bell nobody comes. I can't blame the nurses, because they're stretched thin."
Local members of Congress, like Representative Rodney Frelinghuysen of Morristown, N.J., a Republican and a Vietnam veteran, have asked the General Accounting Office to investigate the impact of the budget cuts and have sent a letter to President Clinton condemning the additional $80 million cut.
"Everyone's treated like a number," Mr. Frelinghuysen said. "There's a managed care mentality. We're promoting greater efficiency, but in reality what we're telling them is they're not getting the quality of care they're used to."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Northeastern veterans' hospitals, like Lyons in New Jersey, have had budgets cut to give more money to hospitals with rising numbers of veterans, like those in the South. (Dith Pran/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: VETERANS AFFAIRS DEPARTMENT LYONS HOSPITAL (61%); MEDICAID (59%); MEDICARE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: VETERANS AFFAIRS DEPARTMENT MEDICAID (59%); MEDICARE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEASTERN STATES (US); UNITED STATES; SOUTHERN STATES (US); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HOSPITALS; VETERANS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS AND MANAGED CARE; MEDICAID; MEDICARE; HEALTH INSURANCE; DOCTORS HOSPITALS (93%); VETERANS HOSPITALS (93%); VETERANS HEALTH CARE (93%); BUDGETS (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); VETERANS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); NURSES & NURSING (78%); MEDICARE (76%); PHYSICAL THERAPY (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); WORLD WAR II (73%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (73%); MEDICAID (73%); BUDGET CUTS (73%); MENTAL ILLNESS (70%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (65%); 

PERSON: BERGER, JOSEPH JOSEPH L KLAPPER (65%); MYRON SWACK (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1998



306 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1648 words

HEADLINE: Park Slope, Reshaped by Money;
As Rents and Prices Rise, Some Fear for Neighborhood's Soul

BYLINE: By JIM YARDLEY 

 BODY:
In fits and starts over several decades, Park Slope has become a laboratory for both assimilation and gentrification. The Irish and the Italians once brawled on Fifth Avenue, followed by the Puerto Ricans, who elbowed into the mix. There were Jamaicans, and by the 1970's, the hippies had arrived, enticed by the lure of stately but inexpensive brownstones in need of repair.
With each successive layer, Park Slope's identity deepened as well: a self-consciously funky village-within-a-metropolis that embraced tolerance and diversity. But now, the Brooklyn neighborhood is enduring another wave of immigrants, a group that is regarded with more concern than any that came before: well-to-do people, many of them refugees from Manhattan. 
 "The death of a small neighborhood," complained Thomas Spennato, 47, a Park Slope native who owns Soundtrack, a compact-disk store. "Oh, yes, it is. It'll never be the Park Slope people grew up in. It's changing more like other neighborhoods."
This sort of angst is hardly new for either Park Slope or Brooklyn, where nostalgia is a cottage industry. But the latest citywide real estate boom is unquestionably reshaping Park Slope. Brownstones are selling at record seven-figure prices. The neighborhood's main commercial hub, Seventh Avenue, once known for its quaint, small shops, now boasts a Barnes & Noble, a Rite Aid and a Radio Shack. Rent increases in recent years -- in some cases rents have quadrupled -- have forced several small-shop owners to close or move out of the neighborhood.
Park Slope's flavor has always come from its eclectic mixture of people. There are writers, New Age enthusiasts and lesbians, sprinkled in with professionals who chose Park Slope instead of the suburbs after they had children. But now many of the middle-income people who could once afford the neighborhood are finding themselves priced out.
Of equal concern to many Park Slope residents is a sense that the neighborhood's character, its granola-crusted soul, is under assault. Once, people in Park Slope scoffed at the commercialization of another bastion of liberalism, the Upper West Side. Now, a favorite pastime of weekend strollers along Seventh Avenue is examining the latest listings in the windows of real estate agencies.
"That's almost the cultural ethos of Seventh Avenue," Brad Lander, a local civic leader, said. "It's kind of a stunning social activity."
The newest of the newcomers sometimes feel as though they're on a sort of neighborhood probation. Phil Battaglia, a lawyer who moved three months ago from Chelsea into an $825,000 Park Slope brownstone, said he noticed an initial wariness among some of his new neighbors, many of whom had spent decades restoring their homes. "They don't want a bunch of rich people coming in who just have the place and go away every weekend," he said.
Mr. Battaglia said that he had gone out of his way to show that "we're not the ones they're afraid of," and that the effort had paid off. "I think we've shown our neighbors that we care as much about the house and the street as any of them," he said.
In the late 1980's, Park Slope became a favorite destination for Manhattan expatriates seeking more space and a proximity to Prospect Park. But when the stock market collapsed, the Park Slope real estate market went down with it, temporarily. Now that Wall Street is again booming, Park Slope again looks inviting.
Chris Thomas, a vice president of William B. May Properties, said Park Slope now rivals Brooklyn Heights as the most popular Manhattan bedroom community. Mr. Thomas said well-to-do buyers, especially those with children, are choosing Park Slope. The commuting time is not much different for these buyers, many of whom work in financial firms in Manhattan, and Park Slope has Prospect Park.
And the Slope remains less expensive than Brooklyn Heights and the Upper West Side. In the most expensive section in Park Slope, between Eighth Avenue and Prospect Park West, brownstones now routinely sell at prices in excess of $1 million. But an Upper West Side brownstone in the 70's near Central Park recently sold for more than $2.6 million. A Brooklyn Heights brownstone near the Promenade went for $1.8 million.
Competition for homes in Park Slope is fierce. "Our problem isn't getting buyers," said Marc Garstein, president of Warren Lewis Realty. "They're waiting. They get into a bidding war and lose, and then they lose again, and then they decide to go for it."
This same inflation is reshaping Seventh Avenue, the Slope's commercial hub. Because of increased rents, coffee shops, high-end clothiers and real estate offices have replaced many small shops. Mr. Spennato can list a handful of small stores that have closed in the past two years.
"Now, Park Slope is becoming a reflection of Manhattan," he said. "It's beginning to look like the Upper West Side when development happened there."
Karel Smith, who moved to Park Slope 17 years ago from the island of Jamaica, operated Smith Shoe Repair on Seventh Avenue until higher rents forced him to close. Mr. Smith said his rent was a manageable $700 a month until 1993, when his landlord raised it to $2,300, which was then the market rate. Unable to pay today's rent, which might surpass $5,000, Mr. Smith now works out of a friend's bicycle shop on Flatbush Avenue. He has lost most of his business: In a good week, he might make $100. "I just feel very bad knowing that I was in business for so long, and I don't have my business," Mr. Smith, 53, said. "It's a hardship."
Along Fifth Avenue, the neighborhood's second commercial strip, which once had its share of drug dealers and muggers, Chastity Gonzalez, 19, said police crackdowns and an influx of new shops had brought improvements. But pointing to two buildings undergoing conversion to condominiums, Ms. Gonzalez said rents were rising quickly. She lives in a Fifth Avenue apartment owned by her father-in-law. Otherwise, she said, she would have to move.
"The condos are nice for the people who can afford them," she said, "but it's going to be more expensive for the people who live here."
Peter Heaney, the principal of the highly regarded Public School 321 on Seventh Avenue, said his school's student body was equally divided during the 1970's among white, black and Hispanic students. Now, Mr. Heaney said, enrollment is 52 percent white. Census figures show that Park Slope's Hispanic population has dropped most significantly, to 12,819 in 1990 from 17,693 in 1980.
"Gentrification, for us, has almost become a dirty word," Mr. Heaney said. "You like to see your property values going up, but I moved from the Upper East Side to Park Slope because I wanted to be in a more diverse neighborhood."
Mr. Lander, the executive director of the Fifth Avenue Committee, a nonprofit group that helps low-income people find affordable housing, said there had long been an economic divide between the more affluent residents between Seventh Avenue and Prospect Park, and the less affluent ones closer to Fifth Avenue. But he said today's prices had forced many artists, city employees and others to look for housing in other Brooklyn neighborhoods like Windsor Terrace, Prospect Heights and Fort Greene.
Ralph Fezza, 69, who grew up on President Street between Fourth and Fifth Avenues, remembers when Irish and Italian gangs clashed in Park Slope during the 1940's and 50's. Then, Mr. Fezza recalled, Puerto Rican immigrants arrived in the 60's. In more recent decades, Mr. Fezza has noticed another group. "Yuppies," he said, shaking his head and laughing inside the small Fifth Avenue luncheonette his family has owned since 1969. "I don't know how to explain them. They pay rents up the nose."
But they do not eat very often at outdated luncheonettes. Mr. Fezza tells of "yuppies" arriving with their own herbal tea bags and asking for a hot mug of water. "What could I charge them for hot water?" he asked. Because it would take a substantial investment to upgrade his small diner, Mr. Fezza said he would likely limp along or eventually close.
And as new people arrive as well as new businesses, there are occasional domestic skirmishes. Michele Finley, 50, a Park Slope resident for 30 years, rents a fourth-floor apartment on Garfield Place, between Eighth Avenue and Prospect Park West, in one of the neighborhood's most fashionable addresses. For years, she has hung wind chimes in her bedroom window.
Then a new family moved in across the street, paying more than $1 million for a brownstone before beginning an expensive renovation. One night the husband knocked on her door, complaining of sleeplessness and asking if she would take down the chimes. She tied them up and forgot about the incident until two nights later, when she said the man's wife left a note politely asking her to move the chimes indoors. A postscript, she said, offered a small gift of cash or wine for their removal.
"That's insulting," fumed Ms. Finley, who refused to move the chimes. "I'm the undermaid to be tipped for doing a special service. This is arrogance beyond belief."
Having moved to Park Slope in 1970, Rita Knox can compare her own evolution to that of her neighborhood. When she arrived, she drove a white Gremlin with a red racing stripe and taught English. Now, after first graduating to a Karmann Ghia, Ms. Knox drives a gold Mercedes-Benz and owns her own real estate agency. She has brokered many of the deals that have changed the face of Park Slope.
Ms. Knox is white and her husband is black, and she does not believe Park Slope is less tolerant or diverse than in the past. The changes, she said, are simply signs of maturity. "That's the evolution of a neighborhood," she said. "I would love to be 21 again, but we all get older. I'd like to have my Karmann Ghia again, but I don't think my back could take it."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Rents and home prices are rising sharply in Park Slope, Brooklyn. Culture Clash -- The sign for the Park Slope Food Co-op on Union Street provides a quaint counterpoint to the Barnes & Noble sign on Seventh Avenue. Ralph Fezza, left, in his Fifth Avenue luncheonette, said changing times might force him to close. (Photographs by Ruby Washington/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 
Map showing area of Park Slope: An eclectic neighborhood, known as a bastion of liberalism. (pg. B4)
 
Chart: "A CLOSER LOOK: Changing Hands"
Latest and previous sale prices for some properties in Park Slope.
 
34 St. John's Place
Two-family, four-story house
October 1997 $630,000
November 1986 $310,000
 
691 President Street
Two-family, three-story house
August 1997 $550,000
September 1995 $303,000
 
509 10th Street
Two-family, three-story house
February 1997 $510,000
August 1993 $290,000
 
(Source: Warren Lewis Realty)(pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: RSH (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: RADIOSHACK CORP (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; PARK SLOPE (NYC); UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; HOUSING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); RENTING AND LEASING; HOUSING REAL ESTATE (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (87%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (78%); REFUGEES (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (71%); RENTAL PROPERTY (71%); GAYS & LESBIANS (70%); IMMIGRATION (70%); SUBURBS (70%); TRENDS (67%); LAWYERS (66%); LIBERALISM (63%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (50%); 

PERSON: YARDLEY, JIM MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1998



307 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 5; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 864 words

HEADLINE: Suharto's New Cabinet Expected to Set Back Hopes for Indonesian Reform

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS 

DATELINE: JAKARTA, Indonesia, March 14

 BODY:
As Indonesia enters one of its most difficult years, President Suharto announced today a Cabinet marked by loyalty and family connections rather than economic expertise.
The Cabinet lineup suggested that Indonesia is prepared to hunker down in its confrontation with the International Monetary Fund over the fund's demands for a more open economy that would reduce the role of family, favoritism and cartels. 
 The new Cabinet includes the President's powerful daughter, Siti Hardiyanti Rukmana, as Minister of Social Affairs, and the man known as his "first friend," Mohammad Hasan, as Minister of Trade and Industry.
As part of the eclipse of technocrats in the cabinet, the new Finance Minister is Fuad Bawazier, formerly the director of the Taxation Department, who is seen by analysts here as close to the President's family and supportive of its economic interests.
At a time of growing fears of social unrest over the country's economic hardships, the new Minister of Home Affairs is Hartono, who like many Indonesians uses only one name. Hartono, a tough former military chief, also has close ties to the Suharto family.
"Going through the names, I think the people and the market will find it hard to trust some of them," said a leading political commentator, Loekman Sutrisno.
Speaking of the appointment of Mr. Hasan, a wealthy businessman who has profited hugely from his friendship with the President, another prominent commentator, Umar Juoro, said, "This is not going to encourage the I.M.F. to reach a settlement with Indonesia. Hasan has big business interests. He also does not have the best reputation among investors."
Mr. Suharto also announced that B.J. Habibie, another confidant who is the new Vice President, would be given a special portfolio to deal with international organizations, giving him a higher profile than any of his predecessors in the job.
In one sign of continuity, though, Ali Alatas was retained as Foreign Minister for a third five-year term.
The appointment of the Cabinet is the first test of Mr. Suharto's intentions as he enters new discussions with the I.M.F. over the austerity measures it is demanding in return for continued disbursement of its $40 billion rescue package.
It coincides with the arrival here this weekend of a team of I.M.F. officials, of Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto of Japan and of the latest in a stream of American envoys, David Lipton, a senior Treasury Department official. All are expected to urge Mr. Suharto to proceed with the economic liberalization to which he agreed in January.
Mr. Suharto, 76, was inaugurated on Wednesday for a seventh five-year term with a burst of assertions of nationalist solidarity in the face of what he and other Indonesian officials characterize as interference by the I.M.F. and foreign governments.
The official stance was expressed by the military commander in chief, Gen. Wiranto, who said on Thursday, "Reforms -- political, legal and economic -- should be constitutional, gradual and not done in a radical way."
A leading Indonesian economist, Rizal Ramli, has characterized the I.M.F. as "an amputating doctor, not a healing doctor" whose strong medicine can kill the patient.
Mr. Suharto has made it clear that he hopes to continue to receive I.M.F. money but urgent additional steps must be taken to strengthen the Indonesian currency, the rupiah, which has sunk to less than 30 percent of its value six months ago.
"We're not asking for much," the President told supporters on Thursday. "We just want to have a stable rupiah so that people's living standards do not fall further."
In what one foreign banker described as an attempt to have his cake and eat it too, Mr. Suharto appears to hope to persuade the I.M.F. to let him raise the value of the currency by artificially pegging it to the dollar through a currency board.
On Thursday in Washington, the Fund's director general, Michel Camdessus, said such a move would be disastrous for Indonesia now.
"Why?" he said. "Because this country with its very limited stock of reserves now, with an extremely vulnerable banking system, with a corporate debt which has not yet been stabilized or rescheduled, cannot afford to manage a currency board."
A week ago the I.M.F. said it would delay until at least next month the release of a second disbursement of $3 billion because of Indonesia's slow action on removing price supports, reforming the banking sector and disbanding monopolies and cartels.
That announcement drew an orchestrated chorus of nationalist indignation from officials here, along with a suggestion by Mr. Suharto that the liberalized economy he had agreed to would run counter to the Indonesian ethic of family relationships and government controls.
Mr. Suharto has stubbornly resisted outside pressure, first by naming his friend B. J. Habibie as Vice President, despite objections abroad that he represents that very ethic, and now by naming a Cabinet that is not dominated by economic technocrats.
Mark Brown, a vice president of the World Bank, said on Tuesday: "This is a test of wills between President Suharto and domestic and international markets."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Suharto, awaiting a guest, checked the time yesterday. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: INDONESIA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (58%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND SOCIETA IMPIANTI TERMOELETTRICI INDUSTRIALI SPA (SITI) (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDONESIA; INDONESIA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (58%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CABINETS AND SUB-CABINETS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; CARTELS CARTELS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); FAMILY (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); TRENDS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); TAX AUTHORITIES (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (65%); TAXES & TAXATION (55%); 

PERSON: MYDANS, SETH; SUHARTO (PRES); SITI HARDIYANTI RUKMANA; HASAN, MOHAMMAD; BAWAZIER, FUAD MOHAMMAD HASAN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1998



308 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1447 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-5
 
U.S. Won't Back Measure Criticizing China on Rights
The Clinton Administration gave China a boost by dropping American sponsorship of an annual United Nations resolution condemning China's record on human rights. The move effectively kills the resolution. Senior Administration officials said the action was a response to Beijing's recent efforts to bolster its human rights record. A1 

Clinton Warning on Asia
President Clinton warned that investors could throw Southeast Asia "into a long-term recession" if they failed to reward the countries that were effectively grappling with the financial crisis. Mr. Clinton, who cited Thailand as an example of proper economic management, then agreed to release the Thai Government from a contract to buy American-made jet fighters that it could no longer afford. A5
 
U.N. Inspector Praises Iraq
Richard Butler, the head of the United Nations commission in charge of monitoring Iraq's disarmament, expressed praise for what he said was new cooperation by Baghdad. A3
 
Senate Denounces Hussein
The Senate, voting 93 to 0 in favor of a largely symbolic resolution, urged the creation of a United Nations tribunal to try President Hussein as a war criminal. Senator Arlen Specter, the resolution's main sponsor, said that indicting Mr. Hussein would give the United States "the high moral ground." A3
 
Indonesia Cabinet Is Named
President Suharto announced a Cabinet marked by loyalty and family connections rather than economic expertise. The lineup suggested that Indonesia was prepared to hunker down in its confrontation with the I.M.F. over the fund's demands for a more open economy that would reduce the role of family, favoritism and cartels. A5
 
12 Palestinians Wounded
A group of Jewish extremists marched into a Palestinian-controlled area of Hebron, in the West Bank, touching off a melee in which 12 Palestinians, including several journalists, were hurt. A4
 
Yeltsin Said to Have a Cold
Three days after President Boris N. Yeltsin of Russia proclaimed that "the subject of the President's health should be closed -- it does not exist," the Kremlin announced that Mr. Yeltsin had canceled his appointments because of a bad cold. The most striking aspect of the development was the relative serenity with which the news was received in Russia and abroad. A4
 
A Quixotic NATO Campaign
The unlikely pair of Senator Bob Smith, a conservative Republican from New Hampshire, and Senator Tom Harkin, a liberal Democrat from Iowa, lead an eleventh-hour, quixotic campaign against expanding NATO to include Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic. A4
 
NATIONAL A6-14, A32
 
Jones's Lawyers Allege A Pattern of Harassment
Lawyers for Paula Corbin Jones released 600 pages of sometimes graphic court documents in which they sought to portray Mr. Clinton as repeatedly engaging in sexual harassment of female subordinates from his executive positions in government. Most dramatic was the sworn deposition of Kathleen Willey, a former White House worker, who gave a description of the President sexually groping her against her will in an Oval Office hallway in 1993. A1
 
President Clinton and his defenders responded with a blistering attack on the credibility and motives of Ms. Jones, her lawyers and her financial supporters. A1
 
The court filings gave new detail to -- and created a more threatening portrait of -- Ms. Jones's account of her 1991 encounter with Mr. Clinton. A14
 
Sex-Misconduct Acquittal
Sergeant Major Gene C. McKinney, once the top enlisted soldier in the Army, was exonerated of all sexual misconduct charges at his court martial, but was convicted of one count of obstructing justice. A1
 
Cancer's Racial Disparities
Experts said there were varied and complex reasons for members of minorities, particularly African-Americans, not benefiting as much as whites in the trend toward fewer cancer cases and deaths. Among the explanations they cited were a lack of access to health care; life-style factors, like obesity and smoking, and cultural attitudes, like a suspicion of organized medicine. A1
 
A Kennedy to Leave Congress
Representative Joseph P. Kennedy 2d, 45, the leading politician in the family dynasty's younger generation, announced that he would retire from Congress. He cited a year of family tumult and tragedy that brought "a new recognition of our own vulnerabilities and the vagaries of life." A1
 
No Endorsement of Diet Drug
An F.D.A. advisory panel deadlocked on whether to recommend agency approval of the diet drug Xenical, leaving the decision on the drug to the F.D.A., which has expressed skepticism about it because of an increased incidence of breast cancer in patients taking the drug in clinical studies. A6
 
Methodist Minister Cleared
A jury of United Methodists clergy members voted to acquit a fellow minister of a charge that he violated church law by performing a same-sex union for two women in his congregation last September. A7
 
Asteroid's Path Is Revised
Further study of the projected path of a large asteroid indicated that instead of a hair-raising approach to within 30,000 miles of the earth in the year 2028, the object would probably come no closer than 600,000 miles -- more than double the distance between the earth and the moon. A7
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-6
 
Veterans' Medical Care Is Found to Be Waning
Veterans and the organizations that represent them say that Federal budget cuts and the advent of managed care have led to a significant falloff in the quality of medical care at veterans hospitals. B1
 
Views Differ on Transit Plan
Some executives said an expansion of commuter benefits contained in a Senate transportation bill could create nettlesome problems for companies already using a program that lets them buy mass transit vouchers and give them to employees as bonuses. Proponents said benefits would outweigh problems. B3
 
Gun Manufacturer Is Sued
A survivor and the parents of a victim in a shooting of Hasidic Jews on the Brooklyn Bridge went to trial in a suit against the gun's manufacturer. B3
 
Minority Police Officers
A Police Department report acknowledged that minority officers were more likely than white officers to face punishment at disciplinary hearings. But the department denied that racial bias was the reason. B3
 
Safir Sues Over TV Report
Police Commissioner Howard Safir filed a lawsuit seeking $20 million in punitive damages against WCBS-TV. He said it falsely reported that he had used city funds for a meal at a restaurant in Little Italy. B5
 
Messinger Goes Job Hunting
Ruth W. Messinger has interviewed for the job of Westchester County's social services commissioner, after answering a newspaper ad. B2
 
Cornell's Pumpkin Mystery
The Great Pumpkin Mystery at Cornell University reached a bizarre anticlimax. B1
 
ARTS & IDEAS B9-18
 
SPORTS C1-8
 
Picabo Street Breaks Leg
The skier Picabo Street, who won a gold medal in the Winter Olympics last month after returning from surgery on her left knee, broke her left leg in a race in Switzerland. C4
 
BUSINESS DAY D1-16
 
Telecommunications Deal
Alltel was said to be close to an agreement to acquire 360 Communications, a wireless telephone carrier, for more than $4 billion in stock. D1
 
Hilton May Split Business
Hilton Hotels said it was considering splitting its hotel and casino businesses into separate publicly traded companies, with the gaming company merging with Circus Circus Enterprises in a stock deal. A combination of Hilton's casino operations and Circus would create the world's largest gambling company. D1
 
Icahn Plans Pan Am Bailout
Carl Icahn, the former chairman of T.W.A. who ran the company for more than seven years, put up $43 million in an effort to bail out the Pan American Corporation. D1
 
Business Digest 1
 
FASHION B7
 
OBITUARIES A15
 
Beatrice Wood
A potter known as much for her irreverent quips, beauty, bohemian life style and famous lovers as for her luster-glaze chalices and bowls, and who inspired at least two movie characters, one of them the elderly Rose in "Titanic," she was 105. A15
 
EDITORIAL A16-17
 
Editorials: Plotting against reform; cancer retreats, slightly; new look at an unsolved murder; a Kennedy drops out.
 
Columns: Frank Rich, Thomas L. Friedman.
 
Bridge B16
 
Weather C7
 
Crossword B15

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); IRAQ (92%); INDONESIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); THAILAND (90%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (88%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (71%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); IRAQ (92%); INDONESIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); THAILAND (90%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (88%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (71%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); LIBERALISM (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); WAR CRIMES (77%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); CONSERVATISM (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); FAMILY (74%); INDICTMENTS (73%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (72%); LAWYERS (71%); CARTELS (69%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (61%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (75%); ARLEN SPECTER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1998



309 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 200 words

HEADLINE: METRO NEWS BRIEFS: NEW JERSEY;
State Exceeds a Goal For New Welfare Laws

DATELINE: TRENTON

 BODY:
Less than one month shy of the one-year anniversary of New Jersey's welfare revision legislation, slightly more than half of the able-bodied people receiving public assistance have obtained part-time jobs or are in work training, which is substantially more than the goal of 30 percent set for this point in the program, state officials said.
Welfare recipients have two years to obtain part-time work or begin training. Of those in the program in April, when the new rules went into effect, 25,000, or 51 percent, are engaged in a work program, Jacqueline Tencza, spokeswoman for the Department of Human Services, said. An additional 21,000 long-term beneficiaries are expected to start training within the next three months. 
 Officials announced earlier this month that 1,200 people, a record number, were removed from the system in February because they refused for three months to cooperate in finding a job or training. Another large group is expected to be removed this month.
New Jersey has exceeded its expectations in implementing new Federal and state deadlines because of the strength of the regional economy and because of cooperation from employers, state officials said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); WORKFARE AND EMPLOYMENT OF WELFARE RECIPIENTS LEGISLATION (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1998



310 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 9; Page 8; Column 1; Style Desk 

LENGTH: 991 words

HEADLINE: BENEFITS

 BODY:

In League
MONDAY -- A reception from 6:30 to 8:30 P.M. at Sotheby's will raise money for League Treatment Center's programs for the mentally handicapped. The evening will include silent and live auctions, drinks and hors d'oeuvres. Tickets, $50, from (718) 643-5300.
 
Metropolitan Music
TUESDAY -- A party at the Metropolitan Club, 1 East 60th Street, will raise money to help support the coming United States tour of the Russian National Orchestra, an independent orchestra founded in 1991 in Moscow. Sophia Loren will present an award to Gordon P. Getty, a trustee of the orchestra. A reception at 7 will be followed by an ensemble performance by members of the orchestra of excerpts from Grieg's "Scene from the Carnival" and Tchaikovsky's "Nocturne." Dinner will follow. Black tie. Tickets, $500, from (212) 327-3165. 

Networking
WEDNESDAY -- The UJA-Federation of New York will hold a dinner and dance at the Waldorf-Astoria, and will honor Robert C. Wright, the president of NBC. Richard Belzer will be the master of ceremonies for the evening, which will benefit the federation's annual fund. Tony Bennett will sing, and the Max Weinberg Seven will play at the black-tie event, to begin with cocktails at 6. Tickets, $1,000, from (212) 836-1126.
 
For the Benefit of Song
THURSDAY -- Licia Albanese, the soprano, will be honored at a black-tie dinner at the Metropolitan Opera Club at Lincoln Center. Deborah Voigt, soprano, and James Koenig, baritone, will perform at the event, which will benefit the Bel Canto Institute and its summer training programs in New Paltz, N.Y., for young opera singers and coaches. The evening will begin with a cocktail reception at 7. Tickets, $350, from (212) 682-0990.
 
For Social Service
THURSDAY -- The Foundation for Research on Sexually Transmitted Diseases will honor Brian Murtaugh, a former New York Assemblyman, at a cocktail party at B. Smith's Restaurant, 771 Eighth Avenue (47th Street). The event, from 6 to 8 P.M., will benefit the foundation's housing, medical and social-service programs. Tickets, $75, from (212) 924-3733.
 
Courses in Equality
SATURDAY -- Asian Americans for Equality will hold a 10-course Chinese banquet to raise money for the organization's fair housing and economic development efforts. Dr. Ana Dumois, the executive director of the Community Health Care Network, and Dr. Megan McLaughlin, the executive director of the Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies, will be among the honorees at the event, to begin at 6:30 at Jin Fong Restaurant, 22 Elizabeth Street (Mott Street). Tickets, $100, from (212) 964-2288, ext. 228.
 
Dining with Oscar
MARCH 23 -- An Oscar-night buffet at the Copacabana, 617 West 57th Street, will benefit three charities that serve children: Variety, the Children's Charity; the Center for Children and Families, and Kids 'N' U. Guests will be able to watch the Academy Awards on television monitors, and two comedians, Jim Davis and Eddie Brill, will perform before the Oscar show. Tickets, $60, from (212) 226-3536.
 
Stepping Out
MARCH 25 -- The Stepping Stone Day School, which serves children with disabilities in Queens and Manhattan, will benefit from an evening of dinner and theater. The event will begin with dinner at 5:30 at Danal, 90 East 10th Street (Third Avenue). Guests will then attend the 8 P.M. performance of "The Man in the Glass Booth" at the Bouwerie Lane Theater, 330 Bowery (Bond Street). Tickets, $125, from (718) 591-9093.
 
Achievers at the Hilton
MARCH 26 -- Al Roker, the television weatherman, will be master of ceremonies at the Harlem Y.M.C.A.'s 28th annual Black Achievers in Industry Awards Dinner, at the New York Hilton. Dr. Lorraine Monroe, a former principal of the Frederick Douglass Academy in Harlem, will be the keynote speaker at the event, which will honor 92 individuals and organizations from around the country. Proceeds will go to the Y's programs, including the Jackie Robinson Youth Center. Cocktails at 5. Black tie. Tickets, $400, from (212) 281-4100, ext. 201.
 
Family Ties
MARCH 26 -- The Puerto Rican Family Institute will benefit from a black-tie dinner and dance at the Plaza. Ralph Dickerson, the president of United Way of New York City, and Iran Rodriguez, the branch chief of the Federal Head Start Migrant Program in Washington, will be among the honorees. The evening will benefit the institute's mental health clinics and family counseling, crisis intervention and education services, Cocktails at 6. Tickets, $500, from (212) 681-1322.
 
Bal Polonaise
MARCH 27 -- Ambassador Eugeniusz Wyzner, Poland's representative to the United Nations, will be honored at the 42d annual Bal Polonaise, at the Plaza. Proceeds will go to Polish Assistance, which maintains homes for the aged and poor in Ocean Grove, N.J., and Milanowek, Poland. Cocktails at 8 P.M. will be followed by dinner and dancing. Tickets, $225, or $50 for admission at 10:30 for dancing, from (212) 570-5560.
 
A Picture Show
MARCH 28 -- A photography auction and wine reception will be held at Boylan Studios, 601 West 26th Street. Proceeds from the sale of the photographs, which will include prints donated by Helmut Newton, David Bailey and Peter Beard, will go to the Cooley's Anemia Foundation, which supports patient services and research on this hereditary blood disease. Tickets, $5, from (212) 633-7404.
 
City Center Gala
MARCH 30 -- The sixth annual City Center Gala will feature a performance of "Li'l Abner," the musical by Johnny Mercer and Gene de Paul, which is part of the theater's series called Encores: Great American Musicals in Concert. The show, at City Center, 131 West 55th Street, will begin at 6. Supper will follow in the theater. The evening will benefit the center's dance, education and performance programs. Tickets, $500, from (212) 573-6933, or $75 and $110 for the show alone, from (212) 581-1212.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: B SMITH'S (52%); LEAGUE TREATMENT CENTER (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: LEAGUE TREATMENT CENTER (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: PARTIES (SOCIAL) MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); OPERA (88%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (77%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (76%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (76%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%); DISABLED PERSONS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); ASIAN AMERICANS (60%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (50%); 

PERSON: GORDON GETTY (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1998



311 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 12; Page 1; Column 1; Automobiles 

LENGTH: 1704 words

HEADLINE: Planting the Seeds for a Crop of Lean, Green Machines

BYLINE: By MICHELLE KREBS 

 BODY:
GASOLINE costs far less than designer water, and while Americans say in surveys that they want cleaner, more fuel-efficient vehicles, they are buying record numbers of gas-chugging trucks, which pollute more than cars do.. So is there any reason to fear for the future of the internal-combustion vehicle?
Perhaps, though the traditional gasoline engine -- which uses the energy of gases that explode when fuel is ignited inside it -- will not go away quietly, or quickly. Even the experts writing the obituary for the internal-combustion engine -- whose basic workings were established by Gottlieb Daimler in 1885 -- see it as a mainstay for several more decades, probably in conjunction with other, more modern technologies. 
 But partly as a public-relations move, partly as a result of government pressure and partly to keep competitors from gaining a technological edge, virtually all the world's leading auto makers are exploring technologies that could ultimately make their current products obsolete.
"No car company will be able to thrive in the 21st century solely with the internal-combustion engine," the chairman of the General Motors Corporation, John F. Smith Jr., said at the North American International Auto Show in Detroit in January. Like many of its rivals, G.M. used that event to show off concept vehicles having an array of power sources.
One impetus is a realization that pollution standards are likely to become more stringent. Already, California and four Northeast states, including New York, have set stricter emissions rules than the rest of the country. Further, the Kyoto agreement on global warming would require developed nations to reduce greatly the emissions of greenhouse gases like carbon dioxide.
On another front, car makers recognize that although gasoline prices are at record lows today, they cannot remain so indefinitely. Vice President Al Gore has called for auto makers to develop family cars that go 80 miles on a gallon of gas. Further, economical cars are essential in Europe and Japan, where gas is expensive, as well as in emerging, potentially lucrative markets like China.
But while a few alternative-fuel vehicles have reached the market, and many more are on the way, the most innovative -- and expensive -- vehicles may never be more than concepts. As of now, even the brightest engineers cannot say which of several promising technologies will take the lead.
For the short term, a number of companies are continuing to improve gasoline and diesel engines, vastly reducing emissions while bolstering performance and economy. Others are directing their investments into particular types of research, like advanced batteries and fuel cells. But the biggest companies are hedging their bets by developing a portfolio of alternative vehicles; if one technology emerges as the leader, they can quickly pull a vehicle off the shelf.
Auto makers are also working on devices that store energy, like flywheels and ultracapacitors. And they are experimenting with lightweight materials like aluminum, plastics and magnesium that may make future vehicles much more efficient.
Still, new power sources are particularly intriguing, because of their potential to redefine personal transportation. Here is a look at some leading alternative technologies and their prospects.
 
ELECTRICS
The Glow May Be Temporary
 
The earliest electric cars never fulfilled their promise, and faded away by the 1930's. Their long-discussed revival has been slow in coming because of the limited distance they can travel without recharging the batteries.
Still, a number of electric vehicles have come to market. Because the cars meet zero-emissions rules in California and the Northeast, they offer a quick fix until other technologies, like fuel cells, are practical. Many experts now predict that electric power is likely to be used to compliment other technologies -- unless a technical breakthrough makes electric cars fully competitive with other types of vehicles.
Batteries differ chiefly by the metals used in them; this determines how quickly they deliver energy and defines their range, but each increase in range comes at a substantially higher price. Lead-acid batteries, the current standard, seem likely to be supplanted by nickel-metal-hydride versions, like those in laptop computers. The next step up is lithium-ion.
Most electric models are conversions of traditional vehicles. While small companies like the Solectria Corporation of Wilmington, Mass., have been selling these conversions for years, the big auto makers are new to the game. General Motors entered the market in 1996 with its two-seat EV1, available through Saturn dealers in California and Arizona. But only a few hundred people have leased one.
The Honda EV-Plus, the first vehicle to use nickel-metal-hydride batteries, was also designed from the ground up as an electric vehicle, and it can be leased by consumers in California. An electric version of the Toyota RAV4 also uses this type of battery, which will be phased into use in the EV1 and G.M.'s S-10 electric pickup.
Nissan is testing its Altra EV, powered by lithium-ion batteries, with utilities in California. Consumers may be able to purchase the car within two years.
 
PROS
Zero emissions.
Extremely quiet.
Extremely smooth.
Low operating cost.
Low maintenance cost.
 
CONS
Limited range (typically 100 miles or less, depending on outside temperatures and driving conditions).
Limited charging facilities.
Short battery life.
Excessive weight.
Less power than a gasoline engine.
High purchase price.
 
ALTERNATIVE FUELS
Ample and Clean, but Not Perfect
 
While working to develop hybrid and fuel-cell vehicles as long-range solutions, the auto industry has been focusing its short-term efforts on alternative fuels like compressed natural gas, ethanol, methanol and liquefied petroleum, or L.P., gas.
These fuels burn cleaner than gasoline, but are far less dense and take up far more space. Further, they lack the distribution systems needed for refueling. L.P. gas and compressed natural gas require heavy storage tanks that add weight to a vehicle.
Many alternative-fuel vehicles on the market are powered by compressed natural gas. Made up primarily of methane, natural gas is extracted from abundant underground reserves. It costs less than gasoline.
Ethanol and methanol are alcohol-based fuels. Ethanol is produced from grain or agricultural waste. Methanol is an odorless, clear liquid produced from natural gas.
L.P. gas is a dry, gaseous fuel in abundant supply. It burns cleaner, cooler and at a slower, more uniform rate than gasoline.
Some vehicles operate on a single fuel, while bi-fuel vehicles can switch between gasoline and an alternative fuel like ethanol.
Flexible-fuel vehicles have one fuel system and use a mixture of gasoline and alcohol. For example, E-85 is a blend of 85 percent ethanol and 15 percent gasoline.
 
PROS
Cleaner burning than gasoline.
Abundant supplies and low cost.
 
CONS
Limited range.
May require large, special tanks.
Few fueling stations.
 
HYBRIDS
2 Answers To the Question
 
Hybrids are vehicles that can draw on more than one source of power.
The first hybrid concepts shown by auto makers have typically used an internal-combustion engine (usually gasoline-powered, but sometimes diesel) with an electric motor. They fall into two general categories. In a series hybrid, the engine generates electricity that runs the wheels. In a parallel hybrid, two power sources can turn the wheels.
 The only mass-produced hybrid currently on sale is the Toyota Prius, a small sedan. It is available only in Japan for about $17,000 -- far less than the cost of producing it. A parallel hybrid, the Prius has an electric motor that powers the car up to 12 m.p.h., when gas-engine emissions are highest. Above 12 m.p.h., the car's 1.5-liter gasoline engine starts up and seamlessly becomes the main power source.
The electric motor also operates when maximum power is needed, as when climbing a hill. When it is running, the gas engine recharges the batteries, so the Prius does not require an external charger.
Toyota is planning to introduce a hybrid, which may not be exactly like the Prius, in the United States within two years.
Chrysler, Ford and G.M. have all displayed prototypes of hybrids that could go on sale within a decade. Some European manufacturers are also working on similar concepts.
 
PROS
Reduced emissions.
Higher fuel efficiency.
 
CONS
Higher costs, weight and complexity.
Energy-storing devices may be required.
May require recharging.
Batteries or fuel cells may be needed.
 
FUEL CELLS
A Technology Good to the Last Drop?
 
The hottest new technology, and the focus of considerable research, is the fuel cell. A fuel-cell car runs on electricity produced from the chemical reaction of hydrogen and oxygen. The only byproduct is water.
Fuel cells could be used as a vehicle's sole power source, or as one source in a hybrid.
Virtually every major manufacturer has a fuel-cell vehicle in the works, but none are likely to reach the market before 2004.
Fuel cells have been in laboratories since the 1960's and have been used in space. Daimler-Benz, the parent of Mercedes-Benz, is at the forefront of the development of fuel-cell vehicles, having introduced its first one four years ago. Most recently, Daimler-Benz and Ford announced a venture with the leading fuel-cell maker, Ballard Power Systems, of Vancouver, British Columbia, to begin jointly producing by 2004 as many as 100,000 cars a year. General Motors also has a fuel-cell vehicle in the works, and Toyota has a fuel-cell program.
 While most companies are developing cells that use hydrogen as their fuel, Chrysler has taken a different approach, in recognition that there is no infrastructure for distributing hydrogen. Chrysler would use gasoline to produce, on board the car, the hydrogen required by the fuel cell.
 
PROS
Extremely efficient.
Byproducts limited to water.
 
CONS
High cost.
Groups of cells excessively large.
No infrastructure for producing, storing or distributing hydrogen.

GRAPHIC: Photos: G.M. EV1; Nissan Altra EV; Toyota Prius; Dodge ESX2.
 
Chart compares price and features of the Chrysler Epic, G.M. EV1, G.M. S-10, Honda EV-Plus, Nissan Altra EV, and Toyota RAV4-EV.
 
Another chart compares features of the Dodge ESX2, Ford P2000 Diata, G.M. Series Hybrid, G.M. Parallel Hybrid, Honda J-VX, and Toyota Prius.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MTLQ (PAR) (68%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; ELECTRIC VEHICLES; AIR POLLUTION; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE GASOLINE (90%); COMBUSTION TECHNOLOGIES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (86%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (85%); GASOLINE MARKETS (79%); FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (79%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (78%); FUEL CELL VEHICLES (78%); CONCEPT CARS (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); GREENHOUSE GASES (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (74%); DIESEL FUEL (74%); EMERGING MARKETS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (64%); GLOBAL WARMING (64%); ELECTRONIC CAPACITORS (60%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (54%); 

PERSON: KREBS, MICHELLE AL GORE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1998



312 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 17; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 1316 words

HEADLINE: Couch Potato Politics

BYLINE: By Alan Wolfe; Alan Wolfe, a sociology professor at Boston University, is the author, most recently, of "One Nation, After All."

DATELINE: BOSTON

 BODY:
The American political system seems to work best when the American economy is performing at its worst. Compare the Great Depression with the go-go years after World War II. Throughout the economic crises of the 1930's, political passions ran high, innovative policies were fashioned, people listened to their radios and campaigns were intense. And ultimately, Franklin Roosevelt came to be considered one of our greatest Presidents.
The 1950's, by contrast, were a time of great prosperity but also of bland politics. The Eisenhower years saw the beginning of suburban expansion and the solidification of a "Good for General Motors" economy. But most people preferred the pleasures of private success to the rewards and frustrations of public involvement. 
 Every generalization has its exception, including this one; the 1960's, particularly under Lyndon Johnson, constituted a period of economic expansion that coincided with a vibrant politics. Support for civil rights and opposition to the Vietnam War brought politics into the streets and into living rooms.
In the 1990's, we have entered a period like the Eisenhower era. Our economy is the envy of the world, achieving the impossible dream of expansion without inflation. Yet our political system seems deader than dead. Usually, the symptom of this is that politicians engage in passionate quarrels over meaningless symbols but don't pass much innovative legislation. This is true today, with the difference that we do not even seem able to rouse ourselves for petty demagoguery. This, too, is apparently too demanding for our present tastes.
Apathy has its virtues. We have been spared the passionate politics associated with sectarian strife. A not very exciting two-party system that attracts relatively few voters can seem lustrous when set against the squabbling gridlock produced by multiparty systems divided over real threats to security, as is the case in many nations. We should never forget that, for all its flaws, the American system works.
I was taught a valuable lesson in the benefits of a passionless politics when I did some research into the opinions of middle-class Americans. Most of those I talked with in the suburbs of Boston, Atlanta, Tulsa and San Diego focused their moral attention on the small worlds of neighbors, friends and family. Some had lost their jobs to foreign competition. Yet they remained optimistic. They also believed in virtue and morality but were reluctant to impose their values on others, which surely promotes tolerance in the country at large. They had been influenced by the values of the 1960's, including respect for diversity. After talking with these Americans, I was heartened by their generosity of spirit and sense of justice.
Why, then, did I also feel somewhat depressed? It may have had to do with my impression that those I interviewed lacked a shared sense of national purpose. When he campaigned for re-election in 1996, President Clinton stressed small things, like school uniforms and more police officers. In his choice of themes, Mr. Clinton demonstrated how attuned he was to an electorate that has many of the right instincts but lacks a vision of how to put them to constructive use. We have a Presidency writ small for a society that believes in morality writ small.
It is not as if there are no challenges facing the President and the people. For one thing, a country as wealthy and powerful as the United States cannot avoid its international obligations. Yet there seems little inclination to accept them. Consider, for example, the people in Columbus, Ohio, who confronted Administration officials on our Iraq policy. One can admire their populist pugnacity. Their questions about our reasons for committing troops were well taken.
Yet the concerns they voiced were parochial, even at a forum intended to address a question of international importance. Like most of my respondents, they expressed love for their country, but not in a way that disposed them to assume the burdens of life-and-death responsibilities.
Similarly, our domestic politics avoids the most serious issues. The middle-class Americans I interviewed were remarkably realistic on two big subjects, God and family. However sincere they might be in their own faith, they understood that religious orthodoxy can be incompatible with a pluralistic society. They were equally realistic about the changing dynamics of the family.
Although most favored the traditional family, in which only the father works and children are expected to obey their parents, they had learned to live with the benefits of wives who seek self-fulfillment through jobs and of children adventurous enough to set out on their own.
But on a third subject, their country and its government, the people I talked to exhibited nostalgia for bygone triumphs while they seemed reluctant to meet the demands of a new world. Once upon a time, a reluctance to rely on government to solve problems would have been understood as a conservative inclination. Since conservatives thought that the world was just fine, liberals enjoyed a monopoly on the word "problem." To rally support for change, liberals would issue reports documenting how one problem after another -- racism, the environment, the conditions of urban life -- had reached a crisis. Now, conservatives increasingly use the same tactics and even the rhetoric pioneered by liberals.
 If we sit back and do nothing, the conservatives maintain, the family will continue to fall apart, crime will once again be out of control, schools will dumb down what they teach, and our moral fiber will atrophy. Our problems have become so plentiful that we can pick and choose our political approach to them. Select economic or racial inequality, and you are a liberal. Opt for international comparisons on math tests or lament the triumph of secular humanism, and you are a conservative.
Despite this sense from both left and right that there are more than enough problems to go around, Americans seem disinclined to address either side's laundry list. We face something deeper than a distrust of both liberalism and conservatism.
One of the most common words in the middle-class vocabulary is "responsibility." This is what Americans value when, for example, they question welfare or praise economic entrepreneurialism. It therefore struck me as peculiar that so many of the Americans I spoke with refused to accept the responsibilities of national citizenship. They seemed to want the benefits of being American without the obligations of paying taxes or paying attention. Blaming politicians for everything that is wrong is a way of absolving themselves.
This is what makes the present mood so eerie. For the first time in the living memory of many Americans, the Federal Government will soon collect more money than it will spend. At long last both liberals and conservatives have a chance not only to define what kind of country they would like us to be, but also to bring it into being by proposing bold ideas. Yet one party responds by pledging every cent of the surplus to Social Security, a program begun in the 1930's, while the other offers to eliminate the income tax. We constantly hear that Americans are fed up and not willing to take it anymore. Actually they, like their leaders, are quite happy with a trade-off that demands so little of everyone involved.
Prosperity, which gives us the opportunity to pay for a sense of national purpose, detracts from our ability to articulate a sense of national purpose. Economic success has made us a good society, a magnet for people from all over the world who want a chance to succeed. But we will not be a great society until our political will matches our economic abilities. It should not take another Depression to remind us that, in a democracy, good politics has to precede good policy.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Richard McGuire)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT POLITICS (91%); WORLD WAR II (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); GREAT DEPRESSION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); SUBURBS (75%); VIETNAM WAR (72%); CIVIL RIGHTS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); 

PERSON: WOLFE, ALAN (PROF) BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1998



313 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 12; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 887 words

HEADLINE: OFF THE RACK;
The Many New Shades of Gray

BYLINE: By FRED BROCK 

 BODY:
IN trying to attract the attention, and subscriptions, of aging baby boomers, most personal-finance magazines overwork the theme of retirement. Worth's April issue, though, has six articles on the subject that are informative and entertaining and espouse fairly unconventional -- some might say quirky -- wisdom that doesn't sound like it's parroting the mutual fund industry.
This tack is not new for Worth. As John Koten, its editor, points out in his column, Worth broke from tradition on the subject in 1994 with an article titled "Don't Retire." It made the case that people shouldn't abandon their life's work for the false hope of unlimited leisure. In 1995 came "Die Broke," which advocated living well and leaving good memories instead of fat estates. The authors of both articles, Stephen M. Pollan and Mark Levine, later wrote a popular book, also called "Die Broke." 
 For this issue, the two have written "Die Broke, Live Rich," which briefly covers much of the same ground.
But some of the other five articles branch into newer territory. One deals with the possibility that baby boomers may redefine retirement, because they want to keep working, and give new meaning to leisure, because they want to stay active. In short, the article suggests, we may see a redefinition of what it means to be old. And anything the boomers embrace will have a far-reaching economic effect, if only because of their great numbers.
A third article suggests that if you have figured out what you want to do in retirement, start practicing it now -- whether it's travel, golf or a second career. In retirement, it adds, husbands and wives often find themselves together 24 hours a day for the first time, so you'd better start getting to know your spouse, too.
"Your Move," by Scott Burns, points out that most rule-of-thumb calculations for how much money you need for retirement assume that you will make few changes in how or where you live. But he notes that the figures change drastically if you move to a less expensive area. If you have been living on $250,000 a year in Palo Alto, Calif., you can live just as well on $124,336 in Santa Fe, N.M. If your Manhattan salary is $150,000, you'll only need $51,104 in Fort Myers, Fla. So if you are willing to move, and perhaps even downsize a bit, you may disprove some of those dire predictions from mutual fund companies about the vast sums you'll need to save.
Also worthy of consideration are a couple of retirement-related articles in the April issue of Kiplinger's. One examines the various insurance, mutual fund and other offerings of the American Association of Retired Persons. The recommendation: Shop around, because you can sometimes do better elsewhere. A second article looks at what can happen to your estate if you wind up in a nursing home under Medicaid. Hint: It's one way to meet Worth's goal of dying broke.
 
HOME, SWEET HOME -- Low interest rates and the advent of the spring house-hunting season have spawned articles in Kiplinger's and the April issues of Money and Smart Money.
Kiplinger's has advice on buying and selling a home, and includes some solid information on how to sell without a real estate agent.
Smart Money offers practical, comprehensive advice on refinancing. It includes a worksheet for nailing down the numbers.
Money's guide to home repair and remodeling tries to dispel what it calls seven myths on the subject, including the idea that the low bid is always best. It often makes sense to take the middle bid, the magazine says, to avoid shoddy workmanship and costly add-ons.
 
EXPANDING HORIZONS -- Various magazines advocate adding some foreign flavor to your portfolio, despite the economic crisis in Asia.
Smart Money likes European mutual funds as a defensive move. Three funds it favors are Artisan International, which has 72 percent of its money invested in European companies; Scudder Greater Europe Growth, 99 percent, and USAA International, 62 percent.
Individual Investor's April issue uses the so-called Index of Economic Freedom to recommend favorable countries for investment. The index, published by the conservative Heritage Foundation and The Wall Street Journal, ranks countries according to the level of government intervention in their economies -- the less intervention, the higher the rating. The magazine likes Ireland, which had a 6 percent gain in gross domestic product in 1966, compared with the range of 1 percent to 2 percent for the rest of Europe; Peru, which has tamed inflation and has seen economic growth of 6 percent, on average, for the last five years, and the Philippines, which has had similar growth and whose problems are less acute than those elsewhere in Asia.
Bloomberg's April issue is bullish on Telebras of Brazil, Alcatel of France, Infosys Technologies of India, SAP of Germany and the ING Group of the Netherlands.
Your Money, in its April-May issue, also likes mutual funds that invest overseas. Three of its favorites are Scudder Global, Managers International Equity and T. Rowe Price International Bond.
 
BITS AND PIECES -- Money cites the increasing number of potentially dangerous mistakes made by pharmacists in dispensing drugs. . . . Fortune's March 30 issue sings the praises of the new Lexus RX 300 sport utility vehicle.

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (85%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (85%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (74%); 

CITY: SANTA FE, NM, USA (66%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (51%); FORT MYERS, FL, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: FORT MYERS MIRACLE (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (85%); CALIFORNIA, USA (85%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (74%); SANTA FE, NM, USA (66%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (51%); FORT MYERS, FL, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: MAGAZINES RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); BABY BOOMERS (90%); AGING TRENDS (89%); WRITERS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (76%); 

PERSON: BROCK, FRED

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1998



314 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2494 words

HEADLINE: The Stores That Cross Class Lines

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER 

 BODY:
COLLEEN McQUISTON is an upper-middle-class homemaker, and she likes to shop accordingly. She buys cosmetics at Foley's, a department store near her home outside Houston, and clothes at Lord & Taylor. She hits Neiman Marcus each year at Christmas. But when she needs a lipstick or guest towels or socks for her children, she is likely to go to Target.
"I'd rather spend $5 on a picture frame at Target than get it at Dillard's for $15," Mrs. McQuiston said. Even as more income flows into her house -- her husband is a chemical engineer in the thriving Texas economy -- that desire has only grown. "I try to make more of an effort to go to Target," she said. "You can save a lot of money on things that look just as good." 
 American retailers know that the country is full of Mrs. McQuistons. Middle- and upper-income shoppers, the bread and butter of the retail industry, are shopping their way up and down class lines in unprecedented ways. They shop at Saks Fifth Avenue for a blouse and a costly tube of eye cream, then head to T. J. Maxx the same afternoon for children's clothes or window valances.
Chains like Bloomingdale's, with their commitment to always keeping half the store on sale, have drawn in lower-income shoppers who 10 years ago would not have bothered to come through the doors. But even more striking is the success in recent years of lower-priced merchants, particularly discount stores, in drawing middle- and upper-income shoppers to their aisles.
The epitome of this cross-shopping is Target, the discount chain that has grown in a decade to become the biggest unit of the Dayton Hudson Corporation. The average household income of its shoppers is around $40,000 a year, versus $25,000 to $30,000 for Wal-Mart and Kmart, the country's biggest discounters.
It is not that the affluent have gotten cheap; sales for luxury goods retailers were at a decade high last year. Rather, successful retailers of lower-priced goods have managed to tap into what might be called the Vanilla Candle Syndrome. Tired, overworked shoppers prefer to save their paychecks for bigger thrills like vacations and massages than to spend them on expensive baby clothes and place mats; and if they cannot afford the vacation or the massage, they go for a scented candle instead.
Indeed, 90 percent of shoppers with household incomes of more than $70,000 a year shop in discount stores, according to a recent survey by WSL Strategic Retail, a consulting group in New York. Five years ago, that percentage was only half as large.
The best of the lower-priced stores allow shoppers to get in and out quickly yet enjoy the sort of service and some of the ambiance offered by department stores a decade ago. Their clothing and housewares shelves offer attractive, inexpensive interpretations of specialty store merchandise, just a few aisles away from the less sexy but all-important items like milk, white T-shirts and potting soil. All this is wrapped in clever advertising that makes people feel that they are part of a big, hip national secret.
"Ten years ago, you had places like Woolworth's where people thought they had to trade courtesy, clean stores and wide aisles for price," said Candace Corlett, a partner at WSL Strategic Retail. "They don't have to do that anymore -- thank you very much, Target and Wal-Mart."
Thanks, also, to Old Navy, Home Depot, Ikea and the other retailers that manage to move less-expensive goods in a stylish, witty way to all segments of the economic spectrum.
"We have seen a chairman of the board of a major New York company standing in the checkout line next to someone who drives a truck for him," said Bernard Marcus, chairman of Home Depot, the do-it-yourself behemoth based in Atlanta.
Whole shopping centers have been designed with the cross-shopper in mind -- places like the Tustin Marketplace, a center in the heart of affluent Orange County, Calif., that features T. J. Maxx, Ross Stores, Ikea, Home Depot and Old Navy -- and where the average shopper's household income is $60,000.
Marketing experts say the shift in the consumer psyche started with the recession of the early 1990's, when purse-tightening was mandatory, but has persisted through the decade, as shoppers realize that there is no reason to dig their way through crammed department store racks or wait out sales for a simple pair of cotton socks.
"Consumers are looking to buy at the high end, where the value is unambiguous and more fun, or at the lower end, where they can get the best price and be done with it," said J. Walker Smith, a managing partner at Yankelovich Partners, the market research firm.
 
Stylish . . . and Disposable
The shift has done wonders for the business of Target.
Just a decade ago, it was operating 80 stores from its base in Minneapolis. Now, with 807 stores in 39 states -- and in the midst of an aggressive East Coast expansion even as competing discounters go belly up -- Target has managed to seduce more-affluent customers like Mrs. McQuiston, who once were but a corporate pipe dream.
The company's success is based as much on what shoppers see -- wide aisles, children's shirts priced at $6 and an easy return policy -- as on what they cannot, like Target's obsessive inventory management, close partnerships with key suppliers and a corporate culture that showers respect on shoppers, whom the company refers to as "guests."
"We don't believe that 'trend-right' and 'affordable' are mutually exclusive terms," said Greg Steinhafel, vice president for merchandising at Target, during a recent interview in his office in downtown Minneapolis. "We can bring to the masses tasteful merchandise for a price."
The path of that merchandise to the local Target store might begin in St.-Tropez, France, with a company trend-spotter perched on a pier, camera and telephoto lens in hand, watching the world go by.
Last June, the trend-spotters -- people whose job is to find out what colors, styles and moods are hot -- camped out in the Riviera resort town, looking at store windows and watching what cafe society was wearing. The verdict: the cargo pant.
The style was ready for 20 test stores by Labor Day, when the trend group returned to Europe. There it was again -- that military-style pant with the pockets on the sides of the legs, a style that ended up on major fashion runways last fall. Phase 2 involved sending the cargo pant to the rest of Target's stores, in a variety of fabrics and stylings.
Target's attention to trends goes beyond clothes. The company's trend group goes to all the major food, home decor and apparel trade shows around the world, rubbing elbows with buyers from Pottery Barn, Donna Karan International and Neiman Marcus.
"If they have that certain color, we want it," said Robyn Waters, vice president for trend merchandising at Target. "If there is one item that everyone has, we want to have it, too." Ms. Waters said the company often used the same suppliers as department and upscale specialty stores.
There is no question, however, that the quality of a lot of merchandise at Target does not rise to that of merchandise at fancier stores. Seams tend to fray on some shirts. Bath towels wear quickly. Colors can fade on the plates. The merchandise has to be hip, because that makes its disposable nature easier to take.
"I buy towels for my daughter's room or a serving dish for one season," Mrs. McQuiston said.
Target makes it easy for her to return often to spend money in its stores. A wide aisle that the company calls the "race track" runs around each store, and every department is color-coded -- in a scheme borrowed from Candyland, the children's board game.
At the checkout, where a retailer's reputation is made or broken, things are carefully organized, too; stations are set up to allow purchases to be scanned, bagged and ready to go in about a minute. "We must be rapid," said Kenneth B. Woodrow, Target's president. "If people have to wait in line, it means we don't respect their time."
Little of this would matter, of course, if the price weren't right. In children's apparel, there are $5 cotton T-shirts with beach images, suspiciously reminiscent of Petit Bateau, the children's clothing line sold in pricey specialty stores. "Our guest has a high level of education and she has money," said Robert Giampietro, vice president for special projects at Dayton Hudson, during a tour of a new Target store in Minneapolis. "She gets the joke."
That joke is most evident in the tongue-in-cheek advertising the company favors. In one ad that has appeared in New York subway stations and newspapers, a stylish woman dressed in black crimps her hair with a waffle iron. The point is that Target has housewares and cool clothes. In another, a lithe model wears an accordion-style lampshade as a skirt. Yes, the ad conveys, Target sells housewares, and guess what? The chain knows that accordion-pleat skirts are the rage this year.
"This is very important: We're with it and we're current," said Mr. Giampietro, who speaks in rapid-fire sentences while bouncing on the balls of his feet. He wears a watch with the phrase "speed is life" in place of the numerals. "And that is better than taking a strategy that we're selling cheap toilet paper."
 
Stocking and Growing
Mr. Giampietro's kinetic energy cuts through the eerie silence of a Target stockroom. Other retailers' back rooms are often loud and disorganized, but Target's are as orderly as the parts of the store that customers see. Few people are even allowed in -- Mr. Giampietro was stopped by his subordinates and questioned as he sneaked back for a peek -- which means that inventory discrepancies can be traced quickly.
The company knows exactly how much of every item is on every shelf of every store every day, and is obsessive about restocking. The logic is that shoppers who find that their Target is out of toothpaste will not hang around -- or return -- to see what is new in the towel department.
Suppliers say the chain's sophisticated technology and willingness to venture beyond what is considered traditional discount merchandising, like selling dishes individually as well as in sets make doing business with Target more interesting -- and often more lucrative.
"They have the best systems in the business," said Joseph F. Soviero, whose company, Sango America Inc., of Secaucus, N.J., sells ceramics to major department stores, including those of Dayton Hudson. "This enables the merchants to make fast decisions and good ones."
Target's biggest challenge yet is its rollout on the East Coast, where many shoppers have an endless supply chain for everything. In the last year, the company has opened four stores in New Jersey and two in New York, on Long Island, and it expects to open seven more -- in New Jersey, on Long Island and in Queens -- by the end of the year.
The region has been hard on discounters: Bradlees and Caldor are both operating under Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, Jamesway liquidated two years ago and Kmart has been struggling with its Manhattan stores.
"On the East Coast, everyone knows some place to get it wholesale, so there is a lot to compete with," said Walter Loeb, a retail consultant in New York. "But I know the stores have found quick acceptance in the area, and that the New Jersey store was one of their most successful openings ever," he said, referring to the store in Edison.
Target's successful expansion is crucial for Dayton Hudson. The discount chain accounted for about 70 percent of its parent company's $751 million in net earnings last year, and it is being counted on to eventually contribute 85 percent of the profits.
Altogether, the company plans to add about 65 Target stores a year over the next three years, including those planned for the East Coast. Because Dayton Hudson has little debt, it expects to be able to increase earnings at a steady clip even as it spends on new locations.
"They are a benchmark for the industry," Therese Byrne, editor of Retail Maxim, a financial newsletter about the retail industry, said of Target. "In terms of margins, they are two to three times the rest of the discount industry and better than some department stores." Sales in Target stores open at least one year rose an average of 7.3 percent over the last nine months, 40 percent faster than the retail industry average.
 
Filling the Niche
A few other retailers have managed to tap the same magic. And if their merchandise differs from Target's, their marketing and selling styles are remarkably similar.
Consider Ikea, the Swedish furniture chain. There is nothing inherently special about most of the retailer's furniture -- the mainstays are basics, like white laminated bookcases. But the accents -- fun, cheap clocks or lamps -- can help a poor college student put together an affordably fashionable room or enable an affluent retired couple to remake a den.
And Ikea's soup-to-nuts warehouses appeal to the time-pressed: They sell everything from kitchen sinks to rugs, and you take it all with you when you leave. "Ikea is offering a solution to decorating problems in a one-stop-shopping environment," said Carol Tisch, the executive editor of HFN, a trade publication for the home furnishings industry. "And they have helped the industry to learn to upgrade the offerings to a broad base of consumers."
Old Navy, the lowest-price clothing unit of Gap Inc., sells mainly to families looking for basics that are cheaper than those offered at Gap stores. But college students and urban fashion victims alike flock to Old Navy for faux suede feed-bag purses that they can use for a season and then discard. And buying clothes from grocery bins, as customers do at Old Navy, somehow seems fun.
The commercial real estate industry is keenly aware of the cross-shopping trend.
In Orange County, for example, the Irvine Company, the region's prime developer, found through market research that affluent customers were longing for a discount center but did not like the idea of shopping in an eyesore off a freeway. So starting in 1988, it teamed up with Donahue Schriber, a management company, to open the Tustin Marketplace on 90 palm-fringed acres.
"We felt like there was a niche that was missing here," said Rick Evans, president of Irvine's retail division, which has also developed tony projects like Fashion Island in Newport Beach, Calif. "What has made this center so successful is its ambiance."
It is clear that to entice upper-crust shoppers, stores need the whole package: speed-of-sound checkouts, clever ads, strong fashion and frequent turnover in merchandise.
"People want to feel good rather than look good" these days, said Mr. Smith, of Yankelovich. "They figure, 'If it isn't something I want to indulge myself with, then I'll just go to Target. And later, if I am looking for something more enjoyable, I'll go to the Range Rover lot.' "

GRAPHIC: Photo: Target is in the midst of a big expansion on the East Coast, where it opened six stores last year -- including this 136,000-square-foot outlet in Edison, N.J. -- and expects to open seven more by the end of this year. (Frank C. Dougherty for The New York Times)(pg. 11)
 
Photo/Chart: "She Shops Everywhere"
Target burst onto the East Coast with clever advertisements, like the one parodied here, that let shoppers know it carries both fashion and housewares. The discount retailer is not aiming for those with beer budgets, however. It seeks and lures the increasingly prevalent cross- shoppers who buy expensive goods at tony stores but who also like the hip bargains they can find at Target down the aisle from toothpaste and milk. (pg. 1)
 
Graphs: "Shopping Down"
Of consumers who regularly shop at department stores, here is the percentage who also shop at each competing kind of retailer.
Discount stores
like Target
1993: 10%
1998: 17%
 
Warehouse clubs
like Costco
1993: 12%
1998: 28%
 
Off-price stores
like T. J. Maxx
1993: 14%
1998: 29%
 
Factory outlets
1993: 22%
1998: 34%
(Source: Kurt Salmon Associates)(pg. 11)
 
Chart/Illustrations: "A Plate for All Reasons"
This small serving plate is from Target's new All for Sun line. Made of aqua-colored plastic and featuring a trendy design, it could readily find a home among several types of shoppers --or so Target hopes.
Price: $2.69
 
The retired couple
They finally have a house at the beach, but are not about to take their everyday dishes to the shore. Besides, being plastic, this plate is grandchild- friendly.
 
The young couple, just starting out
They received fine china as a wedding gift, but they're still paying for the reception. Here is a cute everyday dish for their new home.
 
The wealthy homemaker
She buys the plate because it is fun. She can use it for poolside entertaining one season, then give it to Goodwill.
 
The hipster college student
He used his mother's Target credit card to get a few things for his dorm room-- including this plate, which he finds ironic.
(Illustrations by Gorka Sampedro)(pg. 11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TGT (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (94%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (94%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (55%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (88%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: TARGET STORES TARGET CORP (94%); SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (55%); T J MAXX (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: TARGET STORES

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); TEXAS, USA (88%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; DISCOUNT SELLING; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR RETAILERS (91%); COSMETICS (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); LUXURY GOODS (89%); AFFLUENT MARKET (89%); CHILDREN'S CLOTHING (89%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (76%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (75%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (75%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (75%); RETAIL SALES (73%); CHRISTMAS (72%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (67%); POLLS & SURVEYS (62%); CONSULTING SERVICES (60%); 

PERSON: STEINHAUER, JENNIFER

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1998



315 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 6; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1188 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING IT;
Midsized. Outperforming. Underappreciated?

BYLINE: By SANA SIWOLOP 

 BODY:
LIKE pointer dogs fixed on their targets, investors just can't seem to let go of the stocks of large, brand-name companies.
Champions of small-capitalization stocks have been complaining about this focus for some time. The earnings of small companies have managed to outgun those of larger companies for the last three quarters, they say. But is anyone listening? 
 Now, investors are giving the same short shrift to midsize companies, many analysts contend. Although mid-caps are variously defined -- the lower end may be companies with market values anywhere from $250 million to $1 billion, the upper end from $2 billion to $5 billion -- most data show that they served up better earnings than large caps in the last quarter of 1997. They look stronger going forward, too.
For example, the percentage of large-cap companies that have had upward earnings revisions has fallen sharply since the beginning of 1997, says Jeffrey M. Warantz, an equity analyst at Salomon Smith Barney. But the percentage of mid-cap companies with such changes has risen significantly. In fact, Mr. Warantz said, the proportion of upward revisions among mid-caps recently passed that of large caps for the first time in five years.
Analysts say these numbers show that the fortunes of mid-cap companies are much more closely tied to the American economy than to economies abroad. According to Merrill Lynch, large companies now generate about 26 percent of their sales abroad, while the figure for mid-caps is just 15 percent.
This domestic dependence helps mid-caps because the United States economy is chugging along much faster than are many economies overseas. In addition, mid-caps are farther away from Japan's troubles, the Southeast Asian crises and other foreign problems.
"Mid-cap companies simply aren't being affected by as many of the economic uncertainties that we now see in the overall marketplace," Mr. Warantz said.
This advantage is showing up in other statistics besides earnings revisions. For example, mid-caps' quarterly earnings at year-end 1997 were 15.5 percent higher, on average, than in the period a year earlier, according to Claudia E. Mott, head of small-stock research at Prudential Securities. Though that is not as impressive as the 20.5 percent earnings growth that small-cap companies registered, it still beats the 12.6 percent earnings growth that was logged by large companies.
The numbers on better-than-expected earnings also make mid-caps look good. Mr. Warantz says almost 49 percent of mid-cap companies reported such surprises in the last quarter of 1997, while only 41.5 percent of large caps did the same.
The good news was not equally distributed among mid-caps, of course. Ms. Mott, who uses a different set of data from Mr. Warantz's, says mid-cap consumer service companies had the highest proportion of positive surprises, 42 percent, while heavy machinery and other capital-spending companies had the lowest, 25 percent.
Despite the auspicious earnings reports, however, mid-caps still get less respect than large caps. So far this year, the Standard & Poor's Midcap 400-stock index has underperformed the S.& P. 500, which consists of large-company stocks, by about 1.7 percentage points.
The rise of mid-caps has not gone completely unnoticed. Though mid-cap stocks have lagged behind large caps so far this year, they seem to have bottomed out at the end of January and have begun to close the gap a bit. But the stocks still seem inexpensive. They are "pretty attractive," Ms. Mott said, pointing out that mid-caps are now trading at price-to-earnings ratios about 8 percent less than their historical norms.
Ben Salm, the mid-cap strategist for State Street Global Advisors, says the companies on the S.& P. Midcap 400 index have estimated 1998 multiples that are about 5 to 9 percent less than those of the S.& P. 500. Yet over the next few years, mid-caps are expected to increase their earnings 10 to 12 percent a year, compared with only 7 percent for the S.& P. 500, he said.
"You have superior growth going forward," Mr. Salm said.
Investors who are interested in the sector can choose from 745 mid-cap mutual funds, by the count of Morningstar, the financial publisher in Chicago. On average, these funds have had year-to-date returns of 7.6 percent.
Some mutual funds, like Crabbe Huson Equity, are becoming more mid-cap oriented than they used to be. That fund usually has holdings in both large and midsize companies, but John Maack, its portfolio manager, has been favoring the latter lately. If mid-cap stocks were fully priced, he said, "the valuations would be a lot better than they are."
Mr. Maack has recently bought shares in these mid-cap companies: Amgen, a biotechnology concern; Burlington Resources, an oil and gas producer; Seagate Technology, a computer disk and software maker, and the Deluxe Corporation, a check printer.
The four companies typify the rosy earnings outlook of the mid-cap sector. Over the next 12 to 18 months, for example, Mr. Maack expects Deluxe's profits to rise as it expands beyond its traditional check-printing market to acquire companies that do electronic transactions. Deluxe, which is based in Shoreview, Minn., and had $1.9 billion in revenue last year, can finance the move with the tremendous cash generated by its core business, Mr. Maack said.
AT Merrill Lynch, Satya D. Pradhuman, manager of U.S. quantitative analysis, likes three mid-caps in particular: Ethan Allen Interiors, the home-furnishings company; ASA Holdings, a regional airline, and Sylvan Learning Systems, an educational and testing enterprise. All three have registered better earnings lately yet still trade at discounts to their expected growth rates.
ASA Holdings, based in Atlanta, is the most recent addition to Mr. Pradhuman's list. The company, which operates Atlantic Southeast Airlines, is trading at just 13.8 times its estimated 1999 earnings per share -- far lower than the S.& P. 500. Yet ASA has one of the strongest balance sheets in the domestic airline industry and is quickly increasing its fleet.
In addition, lower fuel prices and a busy travel market are expected to drive strong earnings for ASA this year. And over the next five years, Mr. Pradhuman says, the company can raise its earnings by an average 19 percent annually.
Like the other analysts, Mr. Pradhuman thinks many mid-cap stocks offer good value. But he urges caution and notes that his three stock selections, all from fairly large mid-caps, offer good liquidity.
"My take is that investors are still pretty skittish" about anything but large caps, Mr. Pradhuman said. "As a result, the market is willing to pay a premium for liquidity."
Of course, investors can also turn their gaze to that other underappreciated area -- small-cap stocks. They are trading at a 10 percent discount to their historical norms, making them a touch cheaper than mid-caps, and they depend even less on foreign markets for revenues. But with their risky nature and lack of liquidity, small caps are a far different game from their midsize cousins.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "The Middle Moves Up" lists fiscal year 1997 revenues, analysts's appraisals, estimated 1998 P-E ratio and Friday's closing price for selected medium-size companies. (Source: Prudential Securities; Axiom Capital Management; Dain Rauscher; Morningstar Inc.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (90%); MER (NYSE) (90%); 8675 (TSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); JAPAN (79%); ASIA (78%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (55%); S&P MIDCAP (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: S&P MIDCAP (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); JAPAN (79%); ASIA (78%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS DOGS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); EQUITY RESEARCH (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); BONDS (73%); 

PERSON: SIWOLOP, SANA JEFFREY M WARANTZ (88%); CLAUDIA E MOTT (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1998



316 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1179 words

HEADLINE: The World;
The Not-So-Superpower Society

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY 

DATELINE: PARIS

 BODY:
I GREW up with history, and I learned that since the 16th century, France and Russia have almost continuously been allies and friends," the late President Francois Mitterrand of France wrote in 1985 to Mikhail S. Gorbachev, then President of the Soviet Union. "History and geography dictate some things that are constant."
Another of those constants is American irritation with France, its oldest ally. Now that the Berlin Wall is gone, the entente between Paris and Moscow has sometimes seemed so warm lately that it has made policy makers in Washington get positively hot under the collar. 
 First France and Russia teamed up to thumb their noses at America by investing in an oil exploration project in Iran. They joined forces again to restrain American military might against Iraq in the dispute over United Nations arms inspections. Last week France and Russia were at it again, lukewarm about imposing sanctions against Serbia under American pressure to force President Slobodan Milosevic to stop armed attacks against the Albanian majority in Kosovo.
At the height of the cold war in 1960, Charles de Gaulle expressed the vision of a Europe extending from the Atlantic to the Urals, and it has always made Americans a little uneasy.
That vision kept France with the United States on expanding the NATO alliance to include Poland and the Czech Republic, which the Senate is expected to ratify shortly, despite Russian objections, but on other issues France and Russia often seem to share a common perspective.
 
Painful Reminders
As frustrated former superpowers, they both hate to be reminded that they are no longer what they used to be -- in France's case the Napoleonic Empire that dominated the continent almost two centuries ago, and in Russia's, the Soviet Union, which collapsed in 1991.
Every time the French hear the words "the world's only superpower" emanating from Washington, they wince, and as for the Russians, the phrase practically rubs their noses in their own loss of power and global influence, even though Russia does still have enough nuclear missiles to blow the world to smithereens.
Still, the French are American NATO allies, and the Russians, for all the Bill-and-Boris camaraderie at summit meetings, are still somewhere between friends and former adversaries.
And most important, French policy is not what it is toward Iraq, the Middle East generally, or Serbia because of its relationship with Russia. France has always tried to stake out a policy independent of Washington's in the Middle East because, as a regional power with European aspirations, it thinks the United States should not have a monopoly in an area that is also strategically important to Europe.
 
Trojan Horse
De Gaulle told an intimate, Alain Peyrefitte, 25 years ago that American enthusiasm for Europe was based on the assumption of dominance over it, through the British Trojan horse and through Germany, which he thought would always be too grovelingly grateful to the United States for saving it from complete Russian occupation after World War II.
"When they see a risk of their influence diminishing if Europe becomes a strong entity that could get along without them, they are less enthusiastic," he said, and of course he assumed that Europe would be led by France.
And de Gaulle, like Mr. Mitterrand after him, often used relations with Russia as a counterbalance to keep Washington from getting too overbearing.
Now it's Jacques Chirac's turn to prove his Gaullist mettle, which he did -- with complete support from his Socialist Prime Minister, Lionel Jospin -- by insisting to the Americans on trying United Nations diplomacy with Iraq, and then lending Secretary General Kofi Annan a French executive jet to go to Baghdad to do it, with full Russian backing. While Mr. Yeltsin ruled out supporting the use of force, Mr. Chirac cleverly hinted that France would reluctantly go along with it if all else failed.
Gallantly or hypocritically, Mr. Chirac and Mr. Annan said afterward that diplomacy would have been ineffective without the American big stick, but both of them are a lot more popular all over the Middle East these days than Bill Clinton is.
France joined the United States and Britain in the war against Iraq in 1991, but a lot of people here regret it. Now the French would like to get Saddam Hussein to comply with United Nations disarmament resolutions and then move on to rebuild the profitable trade relationship they had with Iraq back in 1975, when Mr. Chirac welcomed Saddam Hussein here as his "personal friend."
Russia would also like to rebuild its political influence and its trade with the Middle East. So it was no accident that it was a consortium of Russian oil interests, the French giant Total and Malaysian firms that joined last fall in defying the American trade embargo on Iran and investing $2 billion in an Iranian natural gas field.
Russia said last week that it would continue to defy American opposition to its helping Iran build a nuclear power plant, and should the United States decide this month to inflict sanctions on Total or other French and Russian interests under the despised extraterritorial Iran-Libya Sanctions Act, American relations with both France and Russia could enter one of their worst crises since the cold war.
France and Russia were also allies in the Balkans in World War I, when both countries backed Serbia because Germany and Austria attacked it from Croatia. There are huge statues of two Yugoslavian kings, Peter I and Alexander I, down the street from where the NATO headquarters was in Paris, near the Bois de Boulogne, until de Gaulle kicked it out in 1966, and sentimental attachments die hard.
 
No Illusions
But after the bitter experience of sending thousands of soldiers to Bosnia under an ineffectual United Nations peacekeeping mandate, France no longer has any illusions about Mr. Milosevic, who gets more enthusiastic support from Moscow.
Still, when the United States pressed Russia and its three biggest European allies in London last week to impose sanctions against Serbia because of what happened in Kosovo, French and Russian policies again seemed to coincide.
France dislikes economic sanctions as a policy tool because, Mr. Chirac says, they make the country that imposes them feel good about itself without persuading tough guys like Mr. Hussein or Mr. Milosevic to change their ways.
Russia may have opposed sanctions not only because it would like to be seen as the Serbs' best friend in the Balkans but because it was the target of American-imposed sanctions itself in its Soviet past.
In the end, both France and Russia need the United States engaged in the Balkans to keep the lid on there, which is why both of them are eager participants in the NATO peacekeeping force that went into Bosnia in 1995. But if either France or Russia thought Europe could manage in the Balkans without American help, they would much prefer it.
Fortunately for Franco-American friendship, that day still seems far off.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Presidents Jacques Chirac of France and Boris N. Yeltsin of Russia last year: close for reasons old and new. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: FRANCE (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); SERBIA (93%); EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); IRAQ (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); KOSOVO (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); ALBANIA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (88%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; FRANCE (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); SERBIA (93%); EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); IRAQ (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); KOSOVO (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); ALBANIA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (88%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); COLD WAR (78%); MOUNTAINS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (70%); FINES & PENALTIES (70%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (69%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (68%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (54%); 

PERSON: BORDONARO, TOM (ASSEMBLYMAN); CAPPS, LOIS; PURDUM, TODD S JACQUES CHIRAC (58%); LOIS CAPPS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1998



317 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1209 words

HEADLINE: Pox Americana;
A World Made Safe For, Uh, Whatever

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
THE end of the cold war was supposed to bring not only a peace dividend, with less money spent on defense, but a sort of moral dividend, too. The United States, which had suppressed its ethical standards in the higher battle against godless Communism, was now supposed to be able to pick its friends with a little more discretion.
When the Soviet Union loomed, Washington considered any enemy of my enemy my friend. Americans not only helped install Mobutu Sese Seko in Zaire but kept him there, ignoring whatever democratic pleas and whimpers emerged from the repression. Americans gave the Shah of Iran everything he wanted, and reaped Ayatollah Khomeini. 
 Americans embraced Batista in Cuba and Somoza in Nicaragua and Pinochet in Chile and Saddam Hussein (back then) in Iraq. Americans spent their blood for the kleptocratic generals of South Vietnam.
But either the post-Soviet world is more complex than Americans can handle, or bad old habits die hard.
The United States now has working arrangements with Laurent Kabila, the ruthless new leader of Congo; with a Colombian military that commits human-rights abuses even as it claims to pursue terrorists and drug lords; with Alberto Fujimori of Peru, who has sliced away at democracy in the name of stability, and with numerous others, not forgetting President Suharto of Indonesia, whose 32-year autocracy has enriched his family, and whose nation's economy is too important a domino to be allowed to fall.
In recent weeks, as the Serbs have cracked down on ethnic Albanians in Kosovo province, America has been relearning the cost of such expediency. Slobodan Milosevic, the Serbian leader who opened Pandora's box in the Balkans knowing full well what was inside, wasn't installed by the United States. But to stop the genocide without endangering American forces, Washington had to make him a partner and a statesman three years ago, in the Dayton accords, and it needs him still.
In other words, nearly a decade after the Berlin Wall fell, the United States is still keeping some sordid company -- or at least, by dealing seriously with people like Mr. Milosevic as partners, helping to prop them up.
 
Status Quo Meets Guilt
But if the results are similar, the rationales have become more complicated. They range from trade and stability to the stroking of allies and the fight against drugs. The fact remains that the United States, because of its dominance, is heavily invested in the status quo.
Instability by itself is perceived as dangerous, and American Administrations, Republican or Democratic, tend to bet on what they know, fearing that what may succeed Suharto, for example, might be worse -- like what replaced Somoza and the Shah.
But given America's moral tradition -- church-going, charitable, Wilsonian -- the United States is a status quo power with a uniquely guilty conscience.
So even when Washington deals with a regime it despises (Nigeria, say, for its oil, or Mr. Milosevic's Serbia for its influence) it feels free to make moral accusations that seem to have no real influence on fundamental policy.
It's hard to keep to a moral grid when more secular interests get in the way. "It's an old-fashioned thought, but we can't remake the world," said Morton I. Abramowitz, a senior fellow of the Council on Foreign Relations and a former State Department mandarin. "You still have to balance your priorities, and some fall to the bottom. It's hard, and you open yourself to terrible charges of hypocrisy. And it's even harder in these days, because our priorities that we balance -- human rights, democratization, economic growth, security, stability -- take on a different value in the post-cold war world. There's less urgency, and domestic issues matter more."
The American tradition has always combined a stark moralism (and a high degree of self-righteousness) with a hard-driving, mercantile spirit. This was Protestant capitalism, in the sociologist Max Weber's terms, neatly encapsulated in the American pursuit of the China trade, with its merchants and missionaries.
Today, Michael Mandelbaum of Johns Hopkins suggests, the driving conviction is no longer anti-Communism, but a faith in the transforming nature of capitalism itself. "Now we believe the way to deal with friendly tyrants is economic, that economic and trade relations will lead to democratization."
That is the Clinton Administration's rationale for its engagement with China, let alone with Mr. Kabila, and it supports the desire to first prop up Mr. Suharto, and then to reform him.
But as Representative Lee Hamilton, an Indiana Democrat, notes, the goal of expanding market-based democracies "gives only a broad guidance to policy makers who have to make the tough decisions."
The new, post-cold war answer to what was once called "the friendly tyrant dilemma," Mr. Mandelbaum suggests, is oil, which, like anti-Communism before it, has a higher priority than democratization or human rights. For oil and the stability of oil-producing regions, Americans have long muted moral criticism of the Gulf sheikdoms, and now are doing the same for Turkey, Azerbaijan and Kazakhstan, the Caspian region answers to America's Iran conundrum.
"The cold war may be over, but the laws of strategic geopolitics have not been repealed," says Peter Rodman of the Nixon Center, a moderate Republican policy institute.
That is especially true in East Asia, he says, where there are worries about China's ambitions, about arms spending and about the economic crisis, which has only added to political instability. "You can't have a China strategy without Indonesia as a counterweight, and a lot of the people who attack Suharto on human-rights grounds also get badly worried about China, which is the big enchilada, and don't connect the two."
 
Free to Act? Nah.
In a larger sense, though, America's victory in the cold war seems only to have brought new limits on its ability to act freely, argues Jessica Mathews, the President of the Carnegie Endowment. "Our increased vulnerability to events elsewhere, combined with our expanded responsibility as a global superpower, may add up to the same kind of restrictions on our freedom of action as before," she said.
In the case of Indonesia, for instance, the United States is acting less to prop up Mr. Suharto than to protect America's national interests -- for example, the possibility that a collapse in Jakarta will convulse Japan, Southeast Asia, and American markets.
Similarly, Washington's refusal to press the indictment of Mr. Milosevic for the very atrocities and war crimes American officials say he orders and incites, first in Bosnia and now in Kosovo, is just the most striking example of empty rhetoric in the service of the primary goal -- regional stability, which Mr. Milosevic delivered at Dayton.
Without the ideological battle, it is doubtful that Washington would prop up a Mr. Mobutu for 30 years, Ms. Mathews said -- "at least I'm optimistic enough to think that."
But in general, America's responses "ought to be less knee-jerk now," she said. "There are new reasons to deal with these folks, but it's not so wired as it was in the cold war, when we felt we really didn't have a choice."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Gary Hallgren)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); SERBIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); KOSOVO (79%); COLOMBIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); NICARAGUA (79%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (79%); ALBANIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); CHILE (79%); IRAQ (79%); VIET NAM (79%); CUBA (71%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); SERBIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); KOSOVO (79%); COLOMBIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); NICARAGUA (79%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (79%); ALBANIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); CHILE (79%); IRAQ (79%); VIET NAM (79%); CUBA (71%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PUBLIC OPINION; ETHICS COLD WAR (90%); ETHICS (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (89%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (71%); NEWS BRIEFS (66%); DRUG POLICY (66%); GENOCIDE (64%); TERRORISM (52%); 

PERSON: ERLANGER, STEVEN SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1998



318 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1072 words

HEADLINE: DIARY

BYLINE: By JAN M. ROSEN

 BODY:

EXCHANGES
Nasdaq Flirts With Amex
The National Association of Securities Dealers is in talks to take over the American Stock Exchange and offer companies the choice of having their stocks traded through the electronic Nasdaq system or on the Amex floor. The combination would be big enough to compete seriously with the giant New York Stock Exchange, although the Big Board would remain the leading American market for stocks. The takeover talks reflect both the tide of changing technologies and the growing power of big Wall Street brokerage houses to force changes that save them money.
 
GASOLINE
Driving a Bargain
When inflation is taken into account, gasoline prices have fallen to record lows, averaging $1.14 a gallon this month. Crude-oil prices have also fallen, to a little over $14 a barrel, a 33 percent drop in a year. Behind the free fall: a worldwide oversupply of crude oil, reduced Asian demand and a warm winter that has reduced the need for heating oil. In a land of cheap gas, Atlanta has the cheapest -- 79.9 cents a gallon for regular at one station -- thanks to low gasoline taxes, intense competition among stations and the convergence of two major pipelines.
 
JAPAN
Financial Scandal Widens
Prosecutors raided Japan's central bank and arrested Yasuyuki Yoshizawa, who runs its capital markets division. He was suspected of leaking secrets to Japanese banks. The governor of the Bank of Japan, Yasuo Matsushita, right, offered to resign. The Government agreed to pump nearly $11 billion into 17 leading Japanese banks as part of a program to replenish their capital and restore public confidence in the debt-burdened financial system. Under pressure from Washington and other Western governments, officials of the governing Liberal Democratic Party indicated that they were putting together an $80 billion package to stimulate the shrinking Japanese economy -- but without the big tax cut that the West has been urging.
 
MARKETS
Record After Record
Quickly turning their backs on earnings warnings from Intel, Motorola and Compaq, stock traders repeatedly bid up prices. By Thursday, all the leading indexes had climbed to all-time highs, reflecting a flurry of mergers and acquisitions and optimism that stocks are the best investment choice. Low oil prices have helped the market, one analyst said, because consumers have more money to invest. This year alone, the Dow industrials have risen 8.8 percent and the S.& P. 500 has jumped 10.1 percent. Despite slipping on Friday, the Dow still ended the week up 33.13 points, at 8,602.52. The yield on the 30-year Treasury bond dropped to 5.89 percent.
 
THE ECONOMY
Buyers, Buyers Everywhere
Consumer spending began the year at a healthy pace, the Commerce Department said, with retail sales up a full percentage point in January and half a point in February. But prices seem to remain under control. The Labor Department said that prices paid to producers of goods fell 0.1 percent last month, adding to a string of declines that has sent the Producer Price Index down 1.6 percent in the last 12 months. On the worrisome side, the department said the deficit in the nation's current account, the broadest measure of foreign trade, jumped in 1997 to its highest level in 10 years: $166.4 billion, compared with $148.2 billion in 1996. Productivity rose at an annual rate of 1.6 percent in the fourth quarter, the Labor Department said, less than half the 3.6 percent rate in the third quarter.
 
ANTITRUST
Two Deals Questioned
Lockheed Martin asserted that the Government "fundamentally opposed" its planned purchase of Northrop Grumman, fearing that the combination might lead to insufficient competition among military suppliers. Previously, the Pentagon had encouraged such mergers to help cut costs. Separately, regulators in Europe and the United States have deepened their antitrust inquiries into Worldcom's $37 billion deal for MCI Communications because both are leading carriers of Internet traffic. The Rev. Jesse Jackson, above, told Worldcom stockholders in Jackson, Miss., that he was concerned about the impact on workers, as Bernard J. Ebbers, the company's chief executive, looked on. Shareholders of the two companies overwhelmingly approved the deal.
 
SUPREME COURT
Gray Markets Upheld
Virtually insuring the continuation of a multibillion-dollar "gray market" in unauthorized sales of goods, the Supreme Court ruled unanimously that American manufacturers cannot invoke copyright law to block the domestic sale of products they originally sold at a discount overseas. At issue were beauty products made in America, sold in Britain and brought back to the United States by an independent distributor. The decision was a victory for discounters and, some argued, for consumers. Gray marketers have drawn the ire of the National Association of Manufacturers, many other industry groups and the Clinton Administration.
 
MERGERS
A Whole Lot of Garbage
Waste Management, the troubled leader in the trash-disposal market, and USA Waste Services, a rival, announced an unusual merger that values Waste Management at more than $13 billion and leaves its shareholders with a majority of the stock, but with USA Waste's top managers in charge. . . . The Aluminum Company of America, the nation's largest aluminum producer, announced that it was buying the No. 3 aluminum maker, Alumax, for $2.8 billion in cash and stock. . . . Bowater agreed to acquire Avenor Inc. for $2.47 billion, creating the second-largest newsprint manufacturer in North America, after Abitibi-Consolidated. . . . Qwest Communications International agreed to acquire LCI International for $4.4 billion in stock. . . . Carl C. Icahn bid $43 million for Pan Am. The airline is now in bankruptcy proceedings.
 
COUNTERFEITING
Minting Virtual Dollars
Children have always wanted to print money. Now they can -- and are, along with fully grown criminals -- by using personal computers and ink-jet printers. Sophisticated criminals use scanners to get high-quality images; those in a hurry for a bill to pass in a fast-food restaurant just download an image from the Internet, a feat demonstrated by Lorelei W. Pagano, a Secret Service currency expert. Dennis F. Lynch, head of the service's Counterfeit Division, contends that counterfeiters must be imprisoned, lest a surge in fake notes undermine confidence in the dollar.

GRAPHIC: Photos (Reuters; Associated Press; Carol T. Powers for The New York Times)
 
Chart showing average daily trading volume and market value of listed companies, for Nasdaq, AMEX and N.Y.S.E.. (Sources: Nasdaq; American Stock Exchange; New York Stock Exchange)
 
Graph showing average annual gasoline prices in 1998 dollars, from 1920 to 1970 and 1978 to 1998. (Source: Lundberg Survey)
 
Drawing (Tom Bloom)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (54%); INTC (NASDAQ) (52%); MSI (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (54%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (52%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NYSE MKT LLC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); BANK OF JAPAN (54%); INTEL CORP (52%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (52%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (93%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (91%); FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (93%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (91%); FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK EXCHANGES (92%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); MERGERS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); HEATING OIL (78%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (77%); BONDS (77%); GASOLINE (75%); FUEL TAX (75%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); GASOLINE PRICES (75%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (75%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (74%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); SECURITIES BROKERS (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); SCANDALS (71%); COMPANY EARNINGS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (67%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (66%); TAX LAW (66%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (61%); RETAIL SALES (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1998



319 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 184 words

HEADLINE: Market Timing

 BODY:

MONDAY
The Agriculture Department releases its weekly planting report on seven crops. 

TUESDAY
The Commerce Department reports on housing starts for February. A gain of 1.4 percent is expected.
The Federal Reserve reports on industrial production for February. A gain of 0.1 percent is forecast.
Mitsubishi Bank/Schroder Wertheim releases its weekly retail sales report.
LJR Redbook Research releases its weekly retail sales survey.
 
WEDNESDAY
Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, addresses the Council on Foreign Relations in Washington on global finance.
 
THURSDAY
The Commerce Department reports on the international trade balance for January. A deficit of $11.4 billion is expected.
The Labor Department reports the Consumer Price Index for February. A gain of 0.1 percent is expected.
The Labor Department reports on initial weekly unemployment claims.
 
FRIDAY
The Treasury releases its February budget statement. A deficit of $38.8 billion is forecast.
The Federal Reserve releases its weekly report on commercial and industrial loans at commercial banks.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI LTD (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (57%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (57%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); HOUSING STARTS (88%); REAL ESTATE (88%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (88%); SALES FIGURES (88%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (88%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (88%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (86%); BUDGETS (86%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (73%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (71%); RETAIL SALES (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (68%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (68%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1998



320 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1099 words

HEADLINE: In Paraguay Border Town, Almost Anything Goes

BYLINE: By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO 

DATELINE: CIUDAD DEL ESTE, Paraguay

 BODY:
Although brand names and slogans scream out from every avenue in this gritty bazaar where three countries meet, Nike's stands out as supremely appropriate: "Just Do It."
Well, they did. And it is not pretty. 
 If ever there was a monument to free enterprise and the absence of government regulation, it is Ciudad del Este, where 90 percent of what is sold is counterfeit, where 3,000 pounds of cocaine a month leaves for Brazil, the United States and Europe, and where arms trafficking and money laundering are rampant.
"Anything you want, you can buy here," a businessman said. "Legal, illegal, whatever."
Ciudad del Este, which conveniently straddles the Brazilian and Argentine sides of the breathtaking Iguacu Falls, is the latest battleground in a fierce dispute between American companies that are trying to protect their patents, licenses and trademarks, and the legions of third world entrepreneurs who make their livings from cheap imitations.
Many goods sold here arrive in pieces from the Far East and are assembled in clandestine plants, some of them just upstairs from the retail stores. Phony labels are slapped on, and what is not sold here leaves for other countries, sidestepping quotas for Asian imports.
Wholesalers and street peddlers come here from around the continent seeking items like fake Motorola cell-phone batteries, outwardly indistinguishable from the original, that sell for $90 instead of the $279 a local department store charges. CD-ROM's of video games go for $3 instead of $89 (the price goes down to $2 apiece for 10 or more, a boy selling them confided), and compact disks for $3 instead of $20. The latest in Nikes and Reeboks are $25.
"Even the judges down there don't do anything," said Pedro Contrera, chief of the national police's anti-counterfeiting squad. "They're bought and controlled by organized crime."
The local government has largely taken the side of those running the small businesses.
"It's a form of survival for many Brazilians and for many Paraguayans as well," said Carlos Barreto, the state Governor, who is under investigation after a clandestine airstrip and two unmarked planes were discovered on his property. "When you have a problem with executives, you find solutions by passing laws. But for poor people, it's only through the stomach that you find solutions."
Because Paraguay lacks significant natural resources, smuggling has a long history here and borders on being honest. Now, under pressure from the pharmaceutical, recording and software industries, Washington is threatening Paraguay with economic sanctions if it does not take steps to protect intellectual property.
The recording industry estimates losses of $125 million a year from counterfeiting in Paraguay, and software makers say they have losses of up to $25 million, according to the United States Embassy in Asuncion.
Juan Silvero, 43, came to this region to build the Itaipu dam. When the job ended five years ago, he used his severance pay to start a business selling copycat sneakers and boasts that he now has money to send his son to high school.
"The United States is leaning on Paraguay because it's a weak country," he said. "Why doesn't it lean on China or Taiwan, where the goods come from?"
Gregorio Romero, a neighbor who sells cheap socks, nodded in agreement.
In an interview at Mona Lisa, a chic department store, the local chief of police, Ricardo R. Caballero, lamented a lack of money from overseas to fight counterfeiting. But when asked why he took no action against the thousands of peddlers selling obvious knockoffs from every available inch of street space, he said: "I'm a policeman. It's not my specialty to determine what's legitimate, and what's false."
Commander Caballero, who was visiting Mona Lisa, estimated that 100,000 vendors, with families, worked in Cuided del Este. Others put the figure at 7,000. If he were to seize the merchandise, Commander Caballero said, "it's 500,000 people who won't eat the next day."
At Mona Lisa, authentic Daum, Lalique and Baccarat crystal graces the showcases. But while the throngs buy furiously outside on the streets, the store remains empty of customers.
Charif Hammoud, vice president of the family-run business and president of the Upper Parana Business and Import Center, said that occasional buses bring wealthy Brazilian tourists to his store and that they buy lavishly. "There are big companies who want to go after the counterfeiters, but it's only us, in the importers center, who are trying to make it like a normal tourist city here," he said.
Judging from the scene outside his floor-to-ceiling windows, it is a losing battle. Once-verdant parks have been devoured over the last decade by a hodgepodge of metal stands, shacks and shopping warrens.
As the gateway for counterfeit goods and contraband into the South American market, the city has an economy and rhythm all its own. The buses and vans from Brazil leave Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo at night and start backing up at the Tancredo Neves Bridge by early morning. Later, while the passengers go shopping, the vehicles cram the streets like waiting shopping carts.
Through the afternoon, they are packed to the roofs with all manner of televisions, stereos, recorders, household appliances, records, compact disks, tapes, perfumes and cigarettes. By sunset, shirtless men and uneasy women lean out of buses lined up like an armada of pirate ships bound for home, praying they will not be stopped by customs. Garbage pickers comb the streets for cartons and other wrapping that smugglers discard to save space. They haul it on their backs across the bridge to Brazil, where they sell it for recycling.
While the pirating is concentrated in Ciudad del Este, Paraguay itself can seem like a parallel ersatz galaxy. In Asuncion, for example, the Universidad Columbia is housed modestly in a single building but is flanked majestically by tall pillars. Elton John's tribute song to Diana, sold out in London days after her death, was available in Paraguay for $3. Grainy pirated copies of movies open in theaters, ignoring official release dates. Disney has stopped releasing pictures here altogether.
In Paraguay, any name may be trademarked nationally, regardless of its prominence elsewhere. Calvin Klein faced a court battle with the owner of his name in Paraguay before he could begin selling his designer wear in the country. The man had been doing a brisk trade as Calvin Klein's third-world shadow for years, and saw no reason to step aside for the original.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ciudad del Este, Paraguay, where American companies are battling the legions of people who make their livings from cheap imitations. (John Maier Jr./The Image Works, for The New York Times)
 
Map of Paraguay showing the location of Ciudad del Este: Ninety percent of the goods sold in Ciudad del Este are counterfeit.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NKE (NYSE) (58%); MSI (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS316210 FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3149 FOOTWEAR, EXCEPT RUBBER, NEC (58%); SIC3021 RUBBER & PLASTICS FOOTWEAR (58%); SIC2339 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' OUTERWEAR, NEC (58%); SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (58%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (55%); 

COUNTRY: PARAGUAY (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); BRAZIL (93%); EUROPE (79%); 

COMPANY: NIKE INC (58%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARAGUAY; CIUDAD DEL ESTE (PARAGUAY); PARAGUAY (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); BRAZIL (93%); EUROPE (79%); 

SUBJECT: MONEY LAUNDERING; INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE AND PIRACY; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; COUNTERFEITING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TRADEMARKS AND TRADE NAMES; COPYRIGHTS TRADEMARK LAW (90%); COUNTERFEITING (89%); SMUGGLING (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (84%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); MONEY LAUNDERING (76%); ORGANIZED CRIME (76%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (76%); RETAILERS (76%); TRADEMARKS (76%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (76%); INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE (74%); RECORD INDUSTRY (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (72%); IMPORT CONTROLS (71%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (71%); COCAINE (71%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (71%); GOVERNORS (70%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (70%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (69%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (69%); PATENTS (68%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (67%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (67%); ESPIONAGE (67%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (66%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (65%); POLICE FORCES (62%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%); 

PERSON: SCHEMO, DIANA JEAN MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1998



321 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 8; Page 9; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1416 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL: NOTEBOOK;
A Look at How Mets and Braves Care for Pitchers' Arms

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS 

 BODY:
Brian Edmondson is neither an orthopedist nor a physiotherapist. He is not a member of the Professional Baseball Athletic Trainers Society. But he is a pitcher who spent three years in the Mets' minor league system and now is trying to win a spot in the Atlanta Braves' bullpen.
It is that perspective that has raised some question in Edmondson's mind about the rash of injuries that have struck down the Mets' brightest pitching prospects and about the Mets' way of conditioning pitchers. 
 The Braves' program, he said, is so good that it makes him wonder about how the Mets go about their pitching business. When he articulated his thoughts, he was thinking about three former teammates -- Paul Wilson, Jason Isringhausen and Bill Pulsipher.
"I feel extremely bad for all of them," said Edmondson, a 25-year-old right-hander the Braves plucked from the Mets in last December's draft of unprotected minor league players. "If they go out and get hit around, they can live with that. They had their chance. But if you get hurt and say, 'I was good enough but I got hurt,' that's tragic. I wish all three of them the best of luck and hope they all come back healthy."
Isringhausen, following another operation, is out for the season. Wilson had a brief scare last week about his surgically repaired shoulder. Pulsipher is trying to pitch his way back onto the team as the culmination of a long road back from elbow surgery.
"There's definitely got to be an explanation for it," Edmondson said, "whether it's too much throwing during spring training, overextending them during games or just a freak coincidence."
What makes Edmondson wonder if it is not coincidence is the fact that other pitchers in the Mets' organization have suffered arm trouble in recent seasons. He named Barry Short, Jason Pierson, Grant Roberts and Kirk Presley.
"There are arm injuries up and down the organization," he said. "Whether it's coincidence or bad mechanics or throwing or their shoulder-and-arm conditioning program, something is not right."
After noting that Edmondson is not an expert, Steve Phillips, the Mets' general manager, nevertheless acknowledged that the Mets internally have posed some of the same questions their departed pitcher did, starting at a major staff meeting in January.
"We talked about our entire pitching program at the major league and minor league levels," Phillips said, "what other organizations have done, changes we've made recently, other things we should consider."
The Braves are considered to have the best pitching program, but officials of some other clubs suggest that it is the pitchers in the program and not the elements of the program who make it the best. But Edmondson cited several practices he believed preferable to the Mets' way of doing things.
"What we do with batting practice is the biggest difference I've noticed," he said. "This might be part of the reason why the guys got hurt in New York. Here you start off throwing five minutes off the mound in the bullpen and then throw five minutes of batting practice. Then we go up to five minutes off the mound and 10 minutes of batting practice. With the Mets we got as high as 15 minutes in the bullpen and 15 minutes of batting practice. You're talking about a half hour of straight throwing in spring training."
Braves pitchers, Edmondson said, do not shag flies in the outfield during batting practice.
"We don't have to make all those extra throws in from the outfield," he said. "With the Mets, you're out there shagging. It's fun but not every day, all day. They're very controlled here. They have a very specific program. It's not so physically demanding on your body. You go nice and easy working on mechanical things and throwing strikes. You don't have to go 200 percent to get something out of it. That's their opinion here."
Braves pitchers throw more often than many staffs between starts, but Edmondson pointed out a difference between throwing and hard throwing.
"If you play catch and play catch and play catch, your arm's going to get stronger," he said. "If you go out and air it out and air it out and air it out, you're taking a chance on blowing it out because of too much stress."
Phillips said the Mets have reconsidered their whole conditioning program in season and off. They also have made adjustments philosophically with younger pitchers.
"Injuries present themselves when pitchers are fatigued or have bad mechanics," Phillips said. "They have bad mechanics once they become fatigued and are predisposed to injuries. Young pitchers tend to have more poor mechanics, so we have to be extra cautious when they are getting to that point of fatigue. We're going to take care of the number of innings they pitch and the number of pitches they throw. We've done that in the past, but we're gong to be a little more conservative."
At the major league level, Phillips said, the Mets have changed their routine to having pitchers throw twice on the side between starts, a plan closer to the Braves' routine.
"The idea is less effort and more feel," he said. "We're going to start implementing that down below." The Mets also will continue studying changes. "We'll get into it deeper and further," Phillips said. "If you keep saying your program is solid, we're not going to do anything."
Expert though he might not be, Edmondson was at least close to knowing what he was talking about.
 
$33 Million and Slashing
The roster of the World Series champion Florida Marlins is still too fluid to determine an opening-day payroll, but a prospective 25-man roster plus Alex Fernandez and Bobby Bonilla, who will be on the disabled list when the season opens, computes to a payroll of $33.4 million compared with a $53.5 million array last year.
That total is more than H. Wayne Huizenga wants to spend while he remains the owner, which is why General Manager Dave Dombrowski will trade Jim Eisenreich and very likely John Cangelosi before the season starts. Substitute the $343,000 the Marlins will pay the rookie outfielders Todd Dunwoody and Mark Kotsay for the $1.95 million in salaries for the two veteran outfielders, and the payroll would be at $31.7 million. That would still be higher than the $25.3 million payroll the Marlins had in 1996.
 
International Inflation
The Yankees appear determined to become the Ellis Island of Major League Baseball. Of course, the immigrants who came to Ellis Island became ingredients in the melting pot; they were not welcomed with pots of gold. Orlando Hernandez, known in his pre-defection days in Cuba as El Duque, is the latest beneficiary of George Steinbrenner's largesse.
The Yankees gave Hernandez $6.6 million, which is a pretty fair piece of change for a guy who has not pitched in about a year and a half and whose age is unknown but is said by knowledgeable scouts to be 32. That $6.6 million (for four years) dwarfed any other offer Hernandez received.
The California Angels offered about $1.5 million, and the Cleveland Indians made a proposal that one member of the club said was much closer to the Angels' offer than the Yankees', meaning it was probably no more than half of $6.6 million. The general manager of another American League club said he had thought of making an offer -- for $300,000. The Seattle Mariners had been mentioned as one of the competing teams, but they said they never made an offer.
Contrary to another report that made the rounds, the Angels did not propose making a movie about Hernandez. It was the idea of Joe Cubas, the pitcher's agent, to have Disney, the Angels' controlling partner, make a movie. But it wasn't necessarily going to be about Hernandez. A Disney official said Cubas talked about a movie based on his exploits in helping players defect from Communist Cuba, then getting millions of dollars from capitalist baseball owners. Cubas acknowledged speaking about a story that involved him but said he proposed one about Hernandez as well.
Disney had no interest in any of the ideas, and Cubas said he was speaking with other film makers.
 
Reinstatement? Forget It
News reports of Pete Rose's impromptu talk to Cincinnati Reds minor leaguers last week said his appearance could hurt his chances of reinstatement. It won't. He did not have any chance of reinstatement in the first place. What the talk will do is make it easier for Bud Selig and the executive council to reject Rose's request without inviting criticism from Rose loyalists.

GRAPHIC: Photos: General Manager Steve Phillips said the Mets are rethinking their pitching plan. Brian Edmondson, a former Met prospect, prefers Atlanta's program for pitchers. (Photographs by Gary I. Rothstein for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK METS; ATLANTA BRAVES; NEW YORK YANKEES NEW YORK METS (94%); ATLANTA BRAVES (94%); ATLANTA BRAVES (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (59%); NEW YORK YANKEES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS; ATLANTA BRAVES; NEW YORK YANKEES NEW YORK METS (94%); ATLANTA BRAVES (94%); ATLANTA BRAVES (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (59%); NEW YORK YANKEES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); GEORGIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL BASEBALL (94%); ORTHOPEDICS (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (78%); ATHLETES (78%); PHYSICAL THERAPY (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (76%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (66%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY; EDMONDSON, BRIAN; PHILLIPS, STEVE; HERNANDEZ, ORLANDO BRIAN EDMONDSON (95%); STEVE PHILLIPS (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1998



322 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 11; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: A Drought Halts Ghana On Its Road To Success

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH 

DATELINE: ACCRA, Ghana

 BODY:
With temperatures climbing most days into the high 90's, Jesper B. Jeppesen, managing director of Fan Milk, Ghana's largest dairy company, is facing a serious problem.
It is not just that citywide power cuts force him to halt production as often as four days a week, he says. The energy crisis also means that everyone from distributors to homemakers lacks the electricity needed to keep his brands of milk, ice cream and yogurt from spoiling. 
 "One of the more successful investments we have made over the years has been here in Ghana," said Mr. Jeppesen, whose Danish parent company is in the midst of a $5 million modernization here. "But right now, I'd have to say that we are on the edge of a catastrophe, and unless some very urgent measures are taken, the worst is to be feared."
Power production has fallen by about 40 percent in the last two months because of underperforming hydroelectric dams, slowed by a drought. So Mr. Jeppesen is not the only anxious business executive in Ghana. With reduced electricity, businesses from tuna canneries to clothing manufacturers are paring output, shortening the workweek and contemplating investments in power generators.
Through most of the 1980's and early 1990's, international financial institutions like the World Bank extolled Ghana as the very model of an African country that would gradually grow its way out of poverty.
President Clinton is to come here on March 23, his first stop in an trip intended to highlight this continent's progress toward sound management and democratic politics. But Ghana's energy crisis stands out as the latest demonstration of Africa's economic fragility.
Across the continent, rigorous World Bank "structural adjustment programs" have been repeatedly waylaid by unforeseen circumstances, whether drought, crop failure, sudden commodity price slumps or biblical-scale plagues of devouring locusts.
Increasingly, on top of problems like these come costly missteps in response to the pressures of unrest. And with the spread of competitive elections has come the perceived need for pork-barrel politics.
"Ghana played the game of structural adjustment better than anyone else for a long period of time," said Thomas Callaghy of the Woodrow Wilson Center in Washington. "But African countries like this remain at the bottom of the international hierarchy, both perceptually, on the part of international actors, and in terms of the critical capacities of actors like the state itself, the business sectors and banks."
"Add to this the fact that these are heavily climate-dependent economies," he said, "and the combination is just deadly."
In Ghana's case, the recovery of the last decade was derailed by a pay raise for civil servants that helped President Jerry Rawlings win election in 1992. When he was re-elected in 1996, he again overspent, this time on a national road-building program.
Now, with the Government finally reining in the inflation caused by those spending sprees, drought has brought on an energy crisis.
To some extent, Ghana's economic upturn has contributed to the crisis. As the economy has grown, power consumption has increased 15 percent a year -- far faster than the state-run power authority has been able to increase output.
"Part of the problem," said Finance Minister Kwame Peprah, "is that we are coming from a situation where we were used to cheap hydroelectric power that cost us one-quarter cent per kilowatt and have been negotiating with people willing to supply us with the same amount of energy at eight cents. Conceptually, that is a long way to travel."
Now drought is leaving factories idle and broad swaths of Accra and other cities dark at night. And the most feared result is that years of efforts spent creating an image of Ghana as receptive to foreign investment could be jeopardized. The World Bank, the leading lender throughout Ghana's period of recovery from years of failed socialism and deep-seated corruption, has stressed the positive.
"It is easy to exaggerate the impact of this crisis," said Peter Harrold, the World Bank country director for Ghana. "Agriculture is largely unaffected, the public sector is unaffected and the mining sector is mostly untouched."
It may be true that the traditional mainstays of Ghana's economy depend relatively little on electricity. But everyone here acknowledges that industry must be the wave of the future if Ghana is to escape poverty. And to build new industries, foreign investment is vital.
"Ghanaian business people are used to hard times like this," said one businessman, adding, "The foreigner looking to invest here, seeing problems like these, might simply leave and never come back."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GHANA (95%); AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: WORLD BANK (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GHANA; GHANA (95%); AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; DROUGHT; HYDROELECTRIC POWER HYDROELECTRIC POWER (90%); DAIRY PRODUCT WHOLESALERS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (90%); DAIRY PRODUCT MFG (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (88%); POLITICS (86%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); ICE CREAM (78%); MILK (78%); POWER FAILURES (77%); POWER PLANTS (77%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (74%); APPAREL MFG (72%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%); ELECTIONS (69%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (67%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); TRENDS (65%); SEAFOOD PROCESSING (52%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); 

PERSON: FRENCH, HOWARD W BILL CLINTON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1998



323 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 32; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 565 words

HEADLINE: Tennessee Governor Talks of Revolt on E.P.A. Smog Rules

BYLINE: By ROBYN MEREDITH 

DATELINE: NASHVILLE, March 13

 BODY:
The battle over new clean air requirements has turned nasty here in the South.
Upset at the Environmental Protection Agency's call for Tennessee to reduce smog emissions that harm Northeastern states, the Governor of Tennessee said the changes would reduce jobs in his state and questioned whether Federal Government data proves the changes would result in significantly cleaner air downwind. 
 The proposal amounts to "big brother coming down here and throwing a bunch of data at us that will harm our state," said Gov. Donald K. Sundquist, a Republican. He said his state should treat the proposed requirements like American revolutionaries treated British tea in the 1773 Boston Tea Party and "dump in the harbor the data that's questionable."
The heated words amount to the latest skirmish in a long battle between Northeastern states and those in the South and Midwest over an E.P.A. proposal to use a regional approach to reduce smog.
Earlier this week, Mr. Sundquist and nine other governors sent a letter to President Clinton objecting to technical merits of the agency's approach and asking for more time to study local pollution patterns. The letter was also signed by the Governors of West Virginia, Alabama, Kentucky, South Carolina, Virginia, Ohio, Indiana, Michigan and Illinois.
The agency defended its proposal. "Our agency and the states conducted more than 1,000 hours of public meetings and we conducted more than two years of technical analysis," said David Ryan, an agency spokesman. "We think it is a good proposal."
Environmentalists said Tennesseans would be hurt most by the state's resistance because many benefits of cleaner air would be felt close to home. "What they're doing is really shortchanging their own citizens and the health of their own population," said Mamatha B. Gowda, a specialist in the ozone transport rules at the Sierra Club in Washington.
Governor Sundquist's top policy aide, Justin P. Wilson, elaborated on Tennessee's objections, saying, "We don't need an arbitrary Government promulgating intolerable acts for economic protection of a New England that can no longer compete."
He accused Northeastern states of unfairly trying to shift expensive environmental clean-up responsibilities to other states to protect local companies. "They see electric deregulation coming and know their power companies can't compete" with the Tennessee Valley Authority, Mr. Wilson said.
The E.P.A. disputed Tennessee's contention that the proposed changes favor New England states. "We did not let the Northeastern states off the hook," Mr. Ryan said. "We're not out to get any states."
The agency in November called for 22 states and the District of Columbia to make plans to meet the Clean Air Act's requirements that the states and the District reduce smog-producing emissions. Tennessee would be required to reduce nitrogen oxides emissions by 35 percent under the proposal. Reduction targets for the other states and the District of Columbia would range from 9 percent to 44 percent. The main sources of smog, or ground-level ozone, are emissions from automobiles, power plants and factories.
While both Governor Sundquist and Mr. Wilson said the plan would cost jobs for Tennesseans, neither said he could estimate how many. But Mr. Wilson said complying with the agency's call for changes would halt the state's growth after 2007.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS221113 NUCLEAR ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (51%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (51%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (98%); NORTHEAST USA (95%); OHIO, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY TENNESSEE VALLEY AUTHORITY (51%); ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (94%); ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (94%); ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TENNESSEE; NORTHEASTERN STATES (US); UNITED STATES (98%); TENNESSEE, USA (98%); NORTHEAST USA (95%); OHIO, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIR POLLUTION; SMOG SMOG (93%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (92%); AIR QUALITY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); LAYOFFS (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (70%); ENERGY REGULATION (67%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (64%); DEREGULATION (62%); UTILITY RESTRUCTURING (60%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (50%); 

PERSON: MEREDITH, ROBYN; SUNDQUIST, DONALD K (GOV) BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1998



324 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1846 words

HEADLINE: World Bank Vs. Reformers on How to Still Feed Russia When It's 64

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, March 14

 BODY:
When one of Russia's most ardent reformers set out to convert the state-run pension system into a program of private individual retirement accounts, he never imagined that the unabashedly capitalist idea would be rebuffed by the World Bank.
The idea was to give Russians more control over their financial future and encourage economic growth. The billions of rubles deposited in the accounts would find their way into investments at home. 
 But the World Bank saw things differently. Declaring the plan too risky, it lobbied for an incremental approach that would preserve a major role for a state-financed pension system similar to the Social Security program in the United States.
And when the cash-rich World Bank speaks, the cash-poor Russian Government listens. In the end, the Government settled on a far more modest reform.
"When the World Bank joined the chorus of criticism from the left, this was really fantastic," said Mikhail Dmitriev, the proponent of the reform plan and a top Russian Labor Ministry official.
The behind-the-scenes dispute illustrates the enormous influence of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund over Russia's social and economic policy. It also shows that the World Bank's role in encouraging social change is more complex -- and more contentious -- than generally realized.
World Bank officials say they opposed the idea because they feared that Russia was moving too hastily to a fully privatized system, which could falter or even collapse.
"This is not a theological issue, but a technical issue of the assessment of risks," said Marcelo Selowsky, the World Bank's chief economist for Europe and Central Asia. "In a country in which the legal framework governing property rights is still evolving, there is some merit in moving more slowly on pension reform than in countries where property rights have been established for a long time."
But critics say the World Bank dogmatically imposed its vision of a paternalistic state role in social welfare.
"I think it is unfortunate that the World Bank acted against one of the outstanding reformers in the Russian Government," said Anders Aslund, a former adviser to the Government of President Boris N. Yeltsin and senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. "They effectively cut him down."
The debate over Russia's pension system is similar to a debate now under way in the United States, where many conservatives want to supplement or replace parts of Social Security with a system of individual accounts. But Russia's huge number of retirees and shaky economy make the problem far more difficult.
Russia has what economists call a pay-as-you-go approach. That means the benefits of current retirees are paid by the current work force. But decades of Soviet planning have led to a financially strapped system, which gives too little to too many.
The problems are legion, one of the biggest being early retirement age. Russian men customarily retire at 60 and women at 55, years before people in most Western nations.
Almost one-fifth of Russia's workers retire at even younger ages. They include coal miners, who have endured a lifetime of dangerous labor, as well as workers whose jobs are neither especially stressful nor hazardous.
Even allowing for lower-than-average life spans, Russia's retirement policies have created an immense army of pensioners. Roughly 38 million Russians receive pensions -- about one for every two in the work force. In the United States, by contrast, the ratio is about one pensioner for every four workers.
The benefits are modest and provide little extra reward for especially dedicated or successful workers. The vast majority receive 300 rubles to 400 rubles (about $50 to $67) a month.
The system is also chronically short of cash. Many Russian companies have simply ignored the 28 percent payroll tax that is supposed to go toward retirement. Workers pay a minuscule 1 percent of their income to the pension fund.
Russia has one advantage. The huge casualties it suffered during World War II depressed the birth rate, which means fewer men and women are expected to reach pension age between 2000 and 2007. That will give Russia a chance to get its house in order before the number of retirees begins to climb again.
Tatyana Ivanova, an elderly woman pleading for handouts on the steps of a Moscow subway station, knows little about the pension debate that has rocked the Russian Government. But she knows the pension system is badly in need of repair.
"Something must change," she said.
 
A Chilean Model As a Russian Solution
 At Russia's Labor Ministry, Mr. Dmitriev said he thought he had the answer. He joined the Yeltsin Administration in April as a First Deputy Labor Minister with a mandate to shake up Soviet-era social planning. His political mentors included Russia's top economic reformers, like Anatoly B. Chubais, the First Deputy Prime Minister, and Yegor T. Gaidar, the former Prime Minister.
Like many economists, Mr. Dmitriev, 36, was fascinated by Chile, which had converted its state pension system into individual retirement accounts.
Hammering out a Russian version of the Chile plan, he proposed that each Russian have a retirement account. Instead of paying taxes to the State Pension Fund, employers would contribute to the new accounts based on the amount of each worker's pay. The more a worker made, the more money would go toward his or her retirement.
The money in the retirement accounts would be invested in the economy, specifically treasury bills, securities and interest-bearing bank accounts. A portion could also be invested abroad.
It would take decades to phase in the program completely. But Mr. Dmitriev argued that it would help build a work ethic in Russia and channel billions of dollars in pension investments into the economy.
"What we wanted most of all was higher economic growth," he said.

Colliding Worlds Within World Bank
 But not everybody in the Russian Government liked the idea.
The State Pension Fund officials were not eager to be phased out of business, and most officials in Mr. Dmitriev's own Labor Ministry found it hard to accept the state's ceding responsibility for administering social benefits.
Prime Minister Viktor S. Chernomyrdin scheduled a meeting last October to decide the new policy. But then the World Bank entered the fray to oppose it.
Established to fight poverty in the Third World, the World Bank has played an increasingly important role helping Russia and East European nations make the rocky transition from Communism.
It has already approved $9.8 billion in loans since Russia joined the World Bank in 1992 and is planning to approve some $3 billion more over the next year or so.
World Bank specialists reflect a range of economic philosophies. But by their own account some of them have been more concerned with shoring up Russia's social safety net than with radical steps to overhaul the economy.
"We just come from different points of view," said Hjalte Sederlof of Finland, who is leader of the World Bank's team on social protection in Russia. "Dmitriev was free market in the extreme. We think there are some limits to the free market and are driven more by the Social Democratic model, which is the mode I am in."
As the specialists broke out their calculators, Russian reformers and the World Bank clashed on a number of issues.
The cost of introducing the new system for younger workers while continuing to pay benefits of current retirees would have reached $5 billion a year. While Mr. Dmitriev argued that the gains outweighed the price, the World Bank worried that the Russian Government would not be able to come up with the money.
And while Mr. Dmitriev argued that his plan would create an incentive for Russians to work harder, he said, World Bank officials were concerned that it would aggravate the income gap between rich and poor.
The two sides were also at odds over Mr. Dmitriev's plan to invest pension funds in the Russian economy. He contended that there was little risk, because the investments would be diversified and managed by regulated pension funds.
World Bank officials, however, were worried that the Russian investments would not be profitable enough to cover pensions, or that the money might even be lost.
"Eventually," said Mr. Selowsky, the World Bank official, "I think Russia should move to a Chile-type system." He is a Chilean who received a Ph.D. in economics from the University of Chicago. "But you have got to be careful you are not overloading the regulatory framework. The worst thing is to start too fast and make a mess."
 
Loud Objections, Quick Compromise
 Taking aim at Mr. Dmitriev's plan, Mr. Sederlof and Robert Holzmann, an Austrian pension expert, drafted a letter in October for Michael Carter, director of the World Bank office in Moscow, to deliver to the Russian Government.
In the letter, addressed to Oleg N. Sysuev, a Deputy Prime Minister, the two men warned that the plan did not meet the conditions for a $250 million installment of a World Bank loan for "social protection."
The Russian Government could experiment with free-market approaches as long as it also preserved and streamlined the current state-funded pension system, the letter read.
Faced with objections from the World Bank and within their own ranks, the Russians thrashed out a compromise.
Under the revised plan, a young Russian worker who retires 30 years from now will receive half his or her pension from the state-managed fund, Mr. Dmitriev explained. The rest will be provided by the worker's new individual retirement account. It will be invested in a varied Russian portfolio, as in Mr. Dmitriev's original plan.
Both types of pension will essentially be financed by a payroll tax. An accounting system will be established so workers can keep track of how much their employers are contributing toward their pensions, a means of pressing companies to pay their taxes. In addition, Russians will be able to invest personal savings in private pension plans. Financial incentives will be established to encourage them to retire later.
One big surprise is the response of some Communist lawmakers. Staking out a populist stance, they have argued that more should be done to privatize the system and that pension account money should be inherited if a worker dies before retiring.
"The personal pension account should be the property of the worker," said Vasily I. Shandybin, a Communist legislator.
Reflecting on the infighting, Russian reformers say the new plan is still a big improvement. But they add that they have learned an important lesson about the World Bank.
"The World Bank is a very complicated institution," Mr. Gaidar said. "To say the World Bank as a whole is Social Democratic would not be correct. But some aspects of the World Bank policy can be said to be influenced by Social Democratic ideas. From my point of view, the World Bank believes in a more statist approach to pensions."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "DEMOGRAPHICS: Propping Up the Pension Systems" shows the number of working age people (age 20 to pension age) for each person of pension age or older, in 20 developed countries in 1990.
 
Most support: at least four workers per pensioner

	PENSION AGE	 		WOMEN	MEN	Japan	65	65	United States	65	65	Denmark	67	67	Finland	65	65	Ireland	65	65	Spain	65	65	Canada	60	65	Germany	65	65	Norway	67	67	
 
In the middle: three to four workers

	PENSION AGE	 		WOMEN	MEN	Belgium	65	65	Portugal	62	65	Switzerland	62	65	Australia	60	65	Greece	60	65	Sweden	65	65	Austria	60	65	Britain	60	65	
 
Least support: fewer than three workers

	PENSION AGE	 		WOMEN	MEN	Russia	55	60	France	60	60	Hungary	55	60	
(Source: Carnegie Center, Moscow)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS (93%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (79%); GREECE (79%); HUNGARY (79%); SPAIN (79%); ASIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); FINLAND (79%); DENMARK (79%); NORWAY (79%); GERMANY (75%); BELGIUM (68%); AUSTRIA (55%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR ECONOMIC COOPERATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR TRADE & INDUSTRY LTD (90%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR COMMERCE & INDUSTRY GAMBIA LTD (90%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (82%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (82%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (82%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (82%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (79%); GREECE (79%); HUNGARY (79%); SPAIN (79%); ASIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); FINLAND (79%); DENMARK (79%); NORWAY (79%); GERMANY (75%); BELGIUM (68%); AUSTRIA (55%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

SUBJECT: PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (96%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); TRENDS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); LOBBYING (78%); PENSION REFORM (78%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); FOUNDATIONS (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); LABOR FORCE (71%); CONSERVATISM (69%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (69%); POLITICS (60%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: GORDON, MICHAEL R

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1998



325 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 787 words

HEADLINE: Moynihan Offers Proposal To Preserve Social Security

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 14

 BODY:
Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan moved today to reshape the national debate on Social Security by offering a comprehensive proposal to cut payroll taxes, reduce the annual cost-of-living adjustment and encourage workers to establish personal savings accounts for retirement.
Mr. Moynihan, a New York Democrat respected by members of both parties as an expert on social policy, said it was imperative that defenders of Social Security propose changes in the program, rather than just resist the proposals of conservatives who want to turn it into a vehicle for investing in stocks and bonds. 
 Under a bill to be introduced in the coming week, Mr. Moynihan would allow workers to divert about 15 percent of payroll taxes into personal savings accounts.
"With this investment provision," Mr. Moynihan said, "workers can build up estates. The fellow who worked at Bethlehem Steel for 40 years would not just have a pension, an annuity, but could leave substantial amounts of money to his children. That's kind of a new America. It responds to the energy that the 'privatizers' have had, without losing your basic annuity."
Mr. Moynihan described his proposals in interviews over the weekend and in the text of a speech prepared for delivery at Harvard University on Monday. The proposals are likely to be a catalyst for the yearlong national debate on Social Security that President Clinton is trying to stimulate. For more than a year, Republicans in Congress have joined with Wall Street executives in suggesting that Social Security taxes be invested in the stock market, possibly through personal accounts.
Mr. Moynihan is the ranking Democrat on the Finance Committee, which writes Social Security legislation. He was a member of the bipartisan commission that devised a plan to keep Social Security from going bankrupt in 1983.
"It's said that you can't touch Social Security because it's the third rail of politics," Mr. Moynihan said in the interview. "If you make any change in it, you die. So what is the alternative? You don't die, but let the Social Security system die."
Mr. Moynihan's proposals suggest that Social Security can be preserved through compromises that appeal to liberals as well as conservatives.
Here is a summary of major provisions of Mr. Moynihan's bill:
*The payroll tax rate -- now 12.4 percent, divided evenly between the employee and the employer -- would be reduced to 11.4 percent in each of the next two years and would then be set at 10.4 percent from 2001 to 2024. The rate would be 11.4 percent from 2025 to 2029, then 12.4 percent from 2030 to 2044. It would climb to 13.4 percent in the following 16 years.
*Beginning in 2001, workers could establish "voluntary investment accounts," financed with the proceeds of the cut in payroll taxes. Or workers could take their share of the tax cut as an increase in take-home pay equal to 1 percent of taxable wages.
*The amount of wages subject to the payroll tax would be increased. The tax is now levied on earnings up to $68,400 a year. The taxable amount, which rises automatically with average wages in the economy, is expected to reach $82,800 in 2003. Under Mr. Moynihan's bill, it would be increased to $97,500 by 2003.
*The Government would trim one percentage point from the annual cost-of-living adjustments in Social Security, veterans' benefits and Civil Service and military retirement benefits. Mr. Moynihan and many economists say that the Consumer Price Index, which is used to compute such adjustments, overstates the cost of living. The Congressional Budget Office says these changes would save $224 billion in Social Security and $55 billion in other programs over the next 10 years.
*Americans would pay $241 billion of additional income taxes in the next decade because there would be smaller changes in provisions of the tax code that offset inflation.
*The normal retirement age would be increased beyond the changes already scheduled to occur. Under current law, the age, now 65, will rise gradually to 67 by 2027. Under Mr. Moynihan's proposal, it would increase to 67 in 2016, then to 68 in 2023 and 70 in 2073.
Mr. Moynihan said the main difference between his proposals and those of the conservative "privatizers" was that "we retain a guaranteed annuity." By reducing payroll taxes, Mr. Moynihan would reduce the surpluses accumulating in the Social Security trust fund. He said his bill would "return Social Security to a pay-as-you-go system," in which annual payroll tax revenues closely match annual outlays.
In the next 10 years, Mr. Moynihan's proposals would cut payroll taxes by nearly $700 billion, but would increase income tax revenues by slightly more than $600 billion.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BS (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: SOCIAL SECURITY (US) BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP (56%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (55%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOCIAL SECURITY (US) HARVARD UNIVERSITY (55%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION SOCIAL SECURITY (91%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CORPORATE TAX (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); COST OF LIVING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); LIBERALISM (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TAX LAW (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY ACTS (77%); BONDS (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (50%); 

PERSON: MOYNIHAN, DANIEL PATRICK (SEN); PEAR, ROBERT BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1998



326 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 369 words

HEADLINE: Clinton May Veto Funds Bill on Abortion Issue

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 14

 BODY:
President Clinton hinted today that he might veto emergency spending legislation if Congress attached a ban on financial aid to groups that offer abortion services overseas.
In his weekly radio address, Mr. Clinton criticized efforts by Republicans in Congress to attach the anti-abortion measure to a bill that would pay nearly $1 billion in dues owed to the United Nations. The bill includes $18 billion for the International Monetary Fund to help deal with the financial crisis in Asia. 
 The President also criticized Republican efforts to prevent the Federal Communications Commission from ordering free broadcast time for political candidates.
Republicans have tried to impose those restrictions in a rider to a separate bill that would provide money for military operations in Bosnia and the Persian Gulf, as well as disaster relief for states that have suffered severe storm damage.
Mr. Clinton said the emergency spending bills had broad bipartisan support. "But unfortunately," he said, "some in Congress are preparing to slip unrelated controversial provisions into the bill, proposals guaranteed to produce gridlock and delay. One provision is a controversial issue related to family planning. Another would even block the Federal Communications Commission from offering candidates free TV air time, which would cut the costs of campaigns and reduce special interest influence."
Such restrictions "have no place on emergency legislation," he declared.
"Congress shouldn't hold emergency aid for families hostage to controversial provisions," he said. "Congress shouldn't demand ransom to maintain America's world leadership and meet America's responsibility to our own national security. Last year, when Congress tried to attach partisan measures to similar disaster legislation, I said no. Congress would be unwise to head down that same road again."
Mr. Clinton taped the radio address before he and his wife, Hillary, left on Friday for a weekend stay at Camp David, Md. In the address, he noted that Congress had 68 work days remaining in this session. He urged it to pass comprehensive tobacco legislation, child care legislation and a bill opening Medicare to people 55 to 64.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (55%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (91%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (91%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (91%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (91%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (55%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FEDERAL AID (US); ABORTION; TELEVISION; ELECTIONS LEGISLATION (91%); ABORTION (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (90%); VETO (90%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (79%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (78%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); MEDICARE (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (75%); FAMILY PLANNING (73%); WEATHER (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (72%); DEFENSE SPENDING (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%); CHILD CARE (50%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1998



327 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 984 words

HEADLINE: Historic Houston Neighborhood Falls to Renewal

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK 

DATELINE: HOUSTON, March 13

 BODY:
In its headlong rush to become the nation's fourth-largest city, Houston has never been particularly noted for preserving its past. "Growth" is a civic mantra, and public angst over whether the place is getting "too big" or "losing its character" is virtually nonexistent. For good and for bad, Houston is a city that mostly seems to look ahead.
But for many Houstonians, the redevelopment of the city's historic Fourth Ward has struck a deeply troubling nerve. The neighborhood, also known as Freedmen's Town, was founded by former slaves, and at one time was one of the most vibrant black communities in the country, full of stores, night clubs, theaters, carefully built wooden homes and brick and cobblestone streets. 
Today, blight has overtaken much of the Fourth Ward, a place that is in the shadow of downtown and, despite its rundown feel, still commands remarkable views of the glass and steel skyline that began sprouting here in the oil boom years. Much of the commercial activity has ceased, but it is still a community. Hundreds of people live here, many making do in crumbling houses that rent for about $200 to $300 a month.
For these people, some of whom have lived here for five decades or more, the sweeping plans of the city and private developers for "renewal" and "renaissance" in the Fourth Ward are not welcome news. Surrounded by bulldozers that have already begun knocking down some of the homes, the longtime residents are threatened by the planned residential redevelopment, in which even the designated "affordable" units will carry rents that are twice what they pay now.
On top of that, there is a clear sense that the demolition of the shotgun and row houses of the Fourth Ward is taking away a part of Houston's history.
"These old houses are just full of stories," said 71-year-old Lillie Mae Savage, who raised eight children in her five-room, lemon-colored rental house on Cook Street, where she has lived for 49 years. "I just don't think they should go tearing them all down like that."
Mrs. Savage spent most of her working life at a laundry two blocks away until it closed several years ago. She says that if the house is sold and boarded up to await demolition -- the fate of dozens of homes around her -- she has no idea where she will live or how she will afford it.
Margaret Gaines, 44, a home health-care worker who has boarded-up homes all around her, was even more blunt.
"This whole plan just doesn't make any sense," said Ms. Gaines, as she gave a visitor a tour of her clapboard house and a cacophonous but cheerful backyard full of dogs and chickens.
"They've got all this history here," Ms. Gaines said. "Why are they going to tear it all up to build some condominiums I couldn't possibly afford anyway? Why fix the neighborhood up just so they can throw people like us out of the way?"
About 130 people living in 30 properties have already been evicted, and the demolition of the old houses is expected to displace at least 250 more. Partly because many of the residents are elderly, the evictions have commanded a lot of news media attention here, and the overall renewal plan has put the city's new Mayor, Lee P. Brown, who ran on a campaign pledge to be "Mayor for all of Houston," in a difficult spot.
Mr. Brown recently persuaded the City Council to pass a plan that he says will help pay moving costs of residents affected by redevelopment and find them places to live at reduced rents, partly by using Federal money. "We don't want people losing their homes and not having any place to live," Mr. Brown said after the vote. "To me, it's just that simple. It's not a matter of legality -- it's an issue of morality."
With 30,000 names already on the city's list for public housing and rental assistance, many people in the Fourth Ward are skeptical that the new plan will work as intended. There is also anger that the city has designated $3.4 million in subsidies for the housing plan, while scaling back the number of "affordable homes" to 150 from an original target of at least twice that. About 350 "market-rate" homes and apartments are also planned.
"They are revitalizing neighborhoods, but not for the people who actually live there," said Christine Felton, an independent filmmaker who is preparing a documentary on the Fourth Ward. Even with the blight in the Fourth Ward, Ms. Felton added, "there's a real sense of community."
"People are interdependent there," she said. "Seniors have survived with limited resources because they take care of each other."
Lenwood Johnson, a tenant leader who headed the unsuccessful fight to prevent the demolition of most of Allen Parkway Village, a nearby 1940's-era housing project, told Fourth Ward residents at a recent meeting that renewal plans threaten all poor people living near downtown.
"If a tiger came into our village and devoured one of us, you shouldn't get comfortable with that and think he's done what he came to do," said Mr. Johnson, who is trying to rally churches and residents to create a trust fund to buy and preserve the Fourth Ward homes. "He's going to get hungry again and come back the next day."
Elizabeth Bailes, a postal carrier who delivers the mail in the neighborhood, paused the other day and said she was sad to see the houses being boarded up one by one.
"I know a lot of this is that these people rent, so they don't have any say-so," Ms. Bailes said. "But it seems to me that if you've been in the same place for 40 or 50 years, you ought to have squatters' rights or something. These people aren't being looked out for."
And Frank Savage, Mrs. Savage's son, said it was not just a question of moving people elsewhere. "You take an old person and move them to where they don't know anybody, that's just like destroying them," he said. "To me, that's what the real hurting part is. A lot of these folks have been here forever."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The redevelopment of Houston's blighted Fourth Ward, left, worries many longtime residents. Margaret Gaines, above, said the plan, which is forcing elderly residents to move, "just doesn't make any sense." (Photographs by F. Carter Smith For The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: FOURTH WARD (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOURTH WARD (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON (TEX); UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (94%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; HOUSING; BLACKS URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (74%); RACE & RACISM (70%); DOGS (60%); 

PERSON: VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE MARGARET GAINES (56%); LEE P BROWN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1998



328 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 34; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 964 words

HEADLINE: Nature Groups Support Farmers' Bid to Raise Milk Prices

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ 

DATELINE: ALBANY, March 14

 BODY:
For years, environmentalists have been among the most ardent critics of New York's dairy farmers, accusing them of fouling the state's rivers and streams with pesticides, manure and other waste.
So it might seem odd that environmental groups have become the farmers' biggest allies in their effort to win state approval for raising milk prices. 
 But in this case, these longtime adversaries share a vital interest. As hundreds of cash-strapped farmers go out of business each year, environmentalists complain that vast tracts of unused farmland are being overgrown or, worse, are falling into the hands of developers.
"There's a simple equation -- that is, the sprawl of development is eating up open spaces in New York," said David J. Miller, the executive director of the New York Chapter of the National Audubon Society. "So when economic pressures put farms out of business, open space is lost, and that open space is critical to birds, wildlife and their habitats."
The issue has generated intense debate here, with consumer groups and other critics complaining that the solution farmers are demanding could raise the price of milk. The precise amount of the expected increase fluctuates, but would be approximately 15 cents a gallon if it were put into effect today.
Why, critics ask, should the state help subsidize dairy farms, particularly small and inefficient ones, at the expense of consumers? They also say that the market, not government, should ultimately decide which farms survive.
"It's really internal forces in the dairy industry that are hurting small farms," said John M. Schnittker, a senior economist with Public Voice for Food and Health Policy, a consumer group. "The solution should not be to raise prices for consumers. Higher prices for consumers will not help small farms in New York State in the long run."
The price of milk is generally set by the Federal Government under a Depression-era system established to insure even distribution and fair pricing for this perishable product. But New York's farmers are calling on state lawmakers to enact legislation to let them join a regional dairy group called the New England Dairy Compact, which is permitted under Federal rules to set higher wholesale milk prices.
The farmers contend that any increase in the wholesale price of milk would be borne by middlemen, although nothing in the legislation would prevent the entire increase from being passed on to consumers. In Connecticut, the price of milk on store shelves went up 20 cents a gallon after the state joined the dairy group because processors and retailers refused to absorb the increase themselves.
So far, the legislation has the support of Gov. George E. Pataki and his Republican allies in the State Senate, many of whom represent upstate districts in which the state's 9,000 dairy farm are a vital industry.
But the legislation's fate is less clear in the Democratic-controlled Assembly, where consumer groups, advocates for the poor, and city Democrats are waging an intense lobbying campaign against it. The critics contend that any increase would ultimately be shouldered by residents of New York City and its suburbs. At the same time, upstate Democrats, under pressure from their constituents, are urging the chamber's leadership not to block the legislation.
Environmental groups' support for the farmers is considered crucial because environmentalists played a significant role in getting similar legislation passed in other states.
Their support is also considered important because they have considerable influence among the Democrats who control the Assembly. Nearly a dozen environmental organizations are actively lobbying for the legislation, including prominent ones like the Natural Resources Defense Council, Scenic Hudson and Environmental Advocates.
Many environmentalists acknowledge that the problems faced by farms, especially small family-run ones, are created by increased competition and technological advancements that have led to an oversupply of milk, both locally and nationally, which has driven down wholesale prices. Indeed, the amount of milk the dairy industry in New York produces is about the same as it was two decades ago, even though the number of dairy farms in the state has dwindled to 9,000 from about 22,000. Economists say those figures strongly suggest that small dairy farms in New York are being replaced by bigger ones that operate more efficiently.
But environmentalists argue that the issue should not be viewed strictly as an economic one because the state reaps other benefits by insuring that farms, especially the small ones, remain in business.
For one thing, they say, industrial-size farms with 2,000 or more cows present a greater environmental threat than smaller ones because they produce a greater concentration of manure and other contaminants.
The small farms also provide open spaces that serve as unique sanctuaries for thousands of species of insects, fish, birds and animals. Currently, they say, farms cover 26 percent of the land in New York and provide roughly 7.7 million acres of open land. And yet, environmentalists say, New York has been losing prime agricultural land at a troubling rate. In 1997 alone, 450 dairy farms went out of business, and experts estimate that the state will continue to lose 5 percent of its farms a year in the near future if nothing is done to reverse the trend.
"There's much more at stake here than pure economics," said John F. Sheehan, a spokesman for the Adirondack Council, an environmental group. "Small farms provide crucial open space for certain wildlife that cannot be duplicated by, say, a housing subdivision or a young forest that would spring up if the farmland was simply abandoned."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK CHAPTER (90%); NATIONAL AUDUBON SOCIETY (56%); NATIONAL AUDUBON SOCIETY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AUDUBON SOCIETY (56%); NATIONAL AUDUBON SOCIETY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: DAIRY PRODUCTS; FARMERS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); LAW AND LEGISLATION; ENVIRONMENT; MILK FOOD PRICES (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (90%); DAIRY FARMING (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); AGRICULTURAL WASTES (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); MILK (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (90%); WHOLESALERS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); DAIRY PRODUCT MFG (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CONSUMER LAW (87%); LEGISLATION (87%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (87%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PESTICIDES (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); WILDLIFE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); APPROVALS (76%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (76%); PRODUCT PRICING (76%); AGRICULTURE (73%); RIVERS (73%); RETAILERS (72%); 

PERSON: HERNANDEZ, RAYMOND

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1998



329 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 2026 words

HEADLINE: Blacks Carry Load of Care for Their Elderly

BYLINE: By SARA RIMER 

DATELINE: DURHAM, N.C., March 9

 BODY:
Eldora Mitchell is nearly as old as the century, and for her it has been a life of love and service, starting at the age of 12, when she went to work scrubbing white people's floors to help her family. Later, she cleaned hospital rooms to feed her own children and cared for her grandchildren while their parents were working. In her 60's, she nursed her dying husband and her elderly mother.
Now, at 95, frail and slowly going blind, it is Mrs. Mitchell's turn. Four years ago, she moved across town to her retirement home -- a bedroom in her son Charles's house here, with bright green curtains and her large-print Bible on the nightstand. 
 Mrs. Mitchell collects $568 a month in Social Security and a pension of $45 a month from Duke Medical Center, where she retired from the housekeeping department. She has about $8,000 in savings and no long-term health insurance. What she does have is her family, and her expectation -- redeemed by their promises -- that they will do for her as she has done for previous generations.
The Mitchells are following a tradition in the African-American community, where families have long been expected to care for their mothers and fathers and grandparents, as well as for their children. It is a tradition born of "certain harsh realities," as Jacqueline Jones, a historian, puts it, "of a historic lack of access to good medical care, public support and the kind of jobs that guaranteed a secure old age."
Peggye Dilworth-Anderson, a sociologist and gerontologist at the University of North Carolina at Greensboro, is directing a four-year study of African-Americans in the state who are caring for relatives. "There are lots of Mr. Mitchells," Dr. Dilworth-Anderson said.
The tradition is hardly unique to blacks. Studies show that nearly one in four American families is taking care of an elderly relative or friend, doing everything from changing diapers to shopping for groceries. With the ranks of those who are known as "the old old" growing ever larger, and the Federal Government considered unlikely to provide help in the form of a comprehensive long-term care program any time soon, more and more families are expected to find themselves taking care of elderly relatives.
Still, older blacks are twice as likely as whites to receive care from family members when their health declines, according to a recent study for the National Institute on Aging by Dr. Raymond T. Coward, dean of health and human services at the University of New Hampshire.
And while caring for one's own is a source of pride, and a statement of love and obligation, it also carries costs in terms of stress, lost wages, jobs and educational opportunities passed up, as well as health risks to the caregivers.
"It's a labor of love, but it exacts a tremendous toll from people who have few resources to begin with," said Dr. Jones, a professor of Afro-American and labor history at Brandeis University and the author of "American Work: Four Centuries of Black and White Labor."
In fact, given the economic stresses on black families, and their increased mobility, some experts worry that coming generations will be unable to take on the caregiving role.
"There is a gap between the cultural value and what is practical," said Rose C. Gibson, a gerontologist and professor emeritus at the University of Michigan, who has studied the black elderly.
The statistics highlight the need: Older blacks have more than double the rate of poverty of older whites, and they suffer from far more health problems, according to figures from the Census Bureau. They have higher rates of hypertension, asthma and diabetes and require more help with the tasks of daily living.
Yet there is more of a resistance to institutional care among blacks than whites, experts say. Years ago, discrimination and poverty barred blacks from nursing homes, or rest homes, as assisted-living facilities are known in North Carolina. The ones they could afford, when they did gain entry, often offered minimal care at best. Among African-Americans, stories abound of relatives and friends mistreated in nursing homes. While the options have improved -- at least for the middle class -- there remains a deep, cultural mistrust of institutions for the elderly.
Gloria Roberson, a retired University of North Carolina accounting clerk, spent nearly every waking moment for five years caring for her mother, who had Alzheimer's disease, at home in Chapel Hill. Her doctor, concerned about the burden she was taking on, urged her to consider a nursing home, Mrs. Roberson recalled. "We just don't do that," she said. "Not with our people."
Financially, some elderly blacks have no option other than entering a nursing home under the Medicaid program, the Federal health care program for the poor. Blacks are far less likely than whites to have spouses to help with their care.
It is not an easy burden for the younger generation. Black caregivers tend to have less money than most white families caring for an elderly relative, so they bear a disproportionately higher burden of the care themselves because they can not afford to hire help.
They are also much more likely to have the additional responsibility of children at home. More than half of all black caregivers have one or more children younger than 18 at home, compared with 39 percent of white caregivers. Many of the black caregivers are single working mothers. Thirty-four percent of blacks older than 65 live in multigenerational homes, compared with 18 percent of whites.
 
Rewarding Payback From a Caring Son
Charles Mitchell was in the kitchen, cooking supper for his mother. It was 3 P.M., eight hours before he would clock in at his paid job. A police dispatcher at North Carolina Central University in Durham, he works the graveyard shift so he can spend his days looking after his mother. Most black caregivers, studies show, hold regular jobs.
"Some of my friends say, 'You're something else, man,' " said Mr. Mitchell, who is 55 and divorced. "They say they admire what I'm doing. I say, 'Well, this is mom. I don't have but one.' She brought me up and looked after me. I feel I should do the same. I feel everybody should."
Mrs. Mitchell said of her son: "I can do for myself. He don't have to wait on me."
But wait on her he does. Three times a day he puts medicated drops in his mother's eyes. He empties the commode in her bedroom that she uses at night. He changes the sheets on her bed. He washes her back, as she did for him when he was small, as she did for her mother when she was old and blind.
He barely mentions his own health problems. A diabetic, Mr. Mitchell injects himself with insulin daily.
For all the talk about the so-called disintegrating black family, what is often ignored is the strength of the extended family. "That's the irony," Dr. Jones said. "People are constantly denigrating black family life. But if you look at how these families survive and sustain themselves over the generations it's a testament to their strength and resilience."
Mr. Mitchell has no paid home health care aides or housekeepers to help with his mother. But he has the support of family members and friends.
His sister Audrey, 52, who also lives in Durham, spends nights with their mother while Mr. Mitchell is working. His other sister, Mildred, 54, who lives nearby, comes by regularly to fix her mother's hair and provide other intimate care. Mr. Mitchell's girlfriend, Sheila Parker, helps with cooking and housework.
The Mitchells' caregiving arrangement is typical of African- American families, Dr. Dilworth-Anderson has found in her study, which is being financed by the National Institute on Aging.
That legacy is particularly strong in the tradition-minded South. Dr. Dilworth-Anderson says she has found that whether caregivers live in urban Durham or rural Warren County, whether their income is $15,000 or $50,000 a year, the sense of obligation is similar.
"What varies is how they can express that sense of obligation," said Dr. Dilworth-Anderson, a professor in the department of human development and family studies. "A high-powered lawyer may have enough resources to make sure her mother is cared for well by using formal services. In that way she feels she's living up to her sense of duty. The lower-class woman may say, 'I don't have all this money to hire all these people, but I have my sisters and brothers.' "
The caregivers are strongly motivated by faith, Dr. Dilworth-Anderson said. "You get cultural reinforcement from your neighbors, your friends, from the church," she said.
 
Two Mothers First, Husband Second
For Martha Perry, caregiving meant pulling up stakes in New Jersey, giving up her job and her daily life with her husband, deferring her own dreams.
Four years ago, Mrs. Perry, 49, who had been a supervisor at a group home for the disabled, returned to the town of Wendell, near Raleigh, and moved in with her elderly mother-in-law, who had advanced diabetes. Mrs. Perry's husband, a postal worker, is the family's main breadwinner, and they could not afford for him to leave his job.
There were also other considerations that prompted Mrs. Perry, who has a 24-year-old son, to join the ranks of caregivers, the majority of whom are women. Mrs. Perry said her husband told her, " 'I can't bathe her, I can't do the things for her that you can do.' "
Mrs. Perry took her mother-in-law, Maggie Perry, to the hospital for dialysis three times a week, lifting her and her wheelchair in and out of her car. She gave her mother-in-law insulin injections, cooked for her and bathed her.
Mrs. Perry said her husband and his four brothers paid her $200 a week. A home health aide spent two hours at the house two or three days a week. Eventually, Maggie Perry had to have a leg amputated and was placed in a nursing home, where she died in January of kidney failure.
The demands on Martha Perry have been unrelenting. She had to stay in North Carolina to care for her mother, Eula Brodie, who is 85 and unable to live on her own. For six months, Mrs. Perry was a round-the-clock caregiver, living with her mother near Raleigh.
She was eventually able to move her mother into the nearby McKissick Center, an assisted-living center. The move allowed Mrs. Perry to go back to work, as a group home manager for disabled adults.
Mrs. Brodie, the daughter of sharecroppers, had worked as a maid and a home health care aide until she was 80. She receives about $1,000 a month from Social Security and her pension, Mrs. Perry said.
The McKissick Center had been charging her $1,600 a month. For about a year, Mrs. Perry paid half the cost herself and half out of her mother's monthly income. Two weeks ago, the center learned that Mrs. Perry, unable to afford the cost, was about to quit her job and move her mother back home and reduced her mother's monthly fee to $1,150.
Mrs. Perry has five brothers and seven sisters, who live scattered across the country. They shared a chaotic, harsh childhood, Mrs. Perry said, and have not forgiven their mother for it. Together, they send about $500 a month to help with her expenses, Mrs. Perry said.
"I love my mother because I saw her working herself to death so we could eat," said Mrs. Perry, who visits her mother regularly and oversees her care.
But now it is Mrs. Perry who is exhausted. "I'll be honest," she said. "Sometimes it's tempting to just walk away. This is taking its toll on my health. I have hypertension. I'm just tired of it, I'm so tired. I've had days where I've said, 'Please, Lord, take her.' "
Her husband, who is 65, plans to retire in the spring and join her in North Carolina. They had planned to build a house. But their savings are mostly gone, Mrs. Perry said.
"The money has gone in so many different ways we didn't count on," she said. "When you get married, you think it's going to be you, your husband and your children. But it ends up being you, your husband, your children and both your parents."
Still, Martha Perry would not have it any other way. "It all goes back to slavery," she said. "Family was all anyone had."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Eldora Mitchell, 95, once nursed her dying husband and her elderly mother. Following in that tradition, she moved to Durham, N.C., four years ago to be cared for in the home of her son, Charles, left. (M. J. Sharp for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Gloria Roberson spent five years, taking care of her mother, who had Alzheimer's disease. Martha Perry, 49, gave up her job and her daily life with her husband in New Jersey to care for her elderly mother-in-law in North Carolina until Mrs. Perry died, and stayed to care for her own mother, Eula Brodie. (Photographs by M. J. Sharp for The New York Times)(pg. 22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (77%); NEW JERSEY, USA (76%); 

CITY: DURHAM, NC, USA (87%); GREENSBORO, NC, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR COMMUNITY BANKING INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (77%); NEW JERSEY, USA (76%); DURHAM, NC, USA (87%); GREENSBORO, NC, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AGED; BLACKS; NURSING HOMES; FAMILIES AND FAMILY LIFE FAMILY (90%); AGING (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (87%); HISTORY (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); GRANDPARENTS (77%); GERONTOLOGY (76%); ELDER HEALTH (76%); SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); SOCIOLOGY (73%); HOSPITALS (72%); LONG TERM CARE INSURANCE (72%); HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (72%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (67%); 

PERSON: RIMER, SARA; JONES, JACQUELINE GLORIA ROBERSON (55%); JACQUELINE JONES (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1998



330 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 38; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 639 words

HEADLINE: Queens Leaders Back Bookkeeper for Assembly

BYLINE: By JONATHAN P. HICKS 

 BODY:
Pauline R. Cummings, a 52-year-old former bookkeeper, sat quietly at a fund-raising breakfast at a Forest Hills restaurant on a recent morning, surrounded by the firmament of Queens Democratic leaders. As the parade of politicians passed by, she seemed more than a little in awe -- more like a guest than the guest of honor.
But the breakfast was for her. 
 "I feel extremely grateful to have been asked to run," said Ms. Cummings, who is running for the State Assembly in a March 24 special election to fill the seat vacated by Gregory W. Meeks, who was elected to Congress last month. "But I have to make myself known to the rest of the community," she said softly. "This is exciting, but it's also a challenge."
The race is her first, and she is expected to win handily, but more than a few Democratic officials suggest that nothing is guaranteed in a four-candidate special election in which turnout is likely to be sparse and name recognition will be significant. That is particularly the case because one of her opponents is younger, more seasoned and known for his tenacity.
He is Allan W. Jennings Jr., running on the Independence Party line after being rebuffed by the Democrats. This campaign is the seventh since 1991 for Mr. Jennings, a 31-year-old bank loan officer. And while he once won a position as a Democratic district leader and as a delegate to the party's judicial convention, Mr. Jennings has failed in four attempts to unseat City Councilman Thomas White Jr.
Ms. Cummings is being supported by a wide array of Queens Democrats that includes Representative Thomas J. Manton, the borough's party leader; Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi and Mr. Meeks himself. And Ms. Cummings, a civic group leader in Far Rockaway, appears to have every advantage in the heavily Democratic 31st Assembly District.
A bookkeeper in the Manhattan garment district for nearly 30 years, the Jamaican-born Ms. Cummings has also been the chairwoman of the economic development committee of her local community board. Her principal political benefactor is City Councilwoman Juanita Watkins, who asked Ms. Cummings to run for the Assembly seat.
Still, many in Queens political circles suggest that, despite Ms. Cummings's presence on the Democratic line and the breadth of her party support, a strong effort by Mr. Jennings is nothing to take lightly. While he lost to Mr. White, Mr. Jennings has a following: last year he received 42 percent of the vote.
"I am the only person in this race with name recognition," said Mr. Jennings, a former city corrections investigator. "Her only advantage is that she has the Democratic line, and my only disadvantage is that I don't."
Still, that may well be too much of an advantage to overcome. The 31st Assembly District, which includes the southeastern Queens neighborhoods of South Ozone Park, Richmond Hill, Springfield Gardens and, across the Jamaica Bay, Far Rockaway, has voted overwhelmingly Democratic since it was created after the 1990 census.
The other candidates are Michael Duvalle, the owner of a security business, who is running on the Republican and Conservative lines, and Evan Gray, a Baptist minister, who is running on the Liberal Party line.
Mr. Jennings and Ms. Cummings highlight the same issues. Each discusses the need to stimulate economic development in the district, where many storefront businesses have closed. They both talk about the need for more frequent rehabilitation of streets and drainage systems.
If Ms. Cummings wins, which is widely expected, she would then face a primary in September and a general election in November. If that is the case, she will likely face Mr. Jennings again.
"I get better and better at running my campaigns," Mr. Jennings said. "I expect to prevail in this race. But if not, sure, I'll be back in September."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Pauline R. Cummings, left, flanked by Councilwoman Juanita Watkins and Assemblywoman Audrey K. Pheffer, is running for an Assembly seat in Queens. (John Sotomayor/The New York Times); One of her opponents is Allan W. Jennings Jr., right. (Linda Rosier for The New York Times)
 
Map showing the area of the 31st Assembly District: The 31st Assembly District is heavily Democratic. (The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: STATE ASSEMBLY (88%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE ASSEMBLY (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (64%); 

PERSON: CUMMINGS, PAULINE R; JENNINGS, ALLAN W JR; DUVALLE, MICHAEL; GRAY, EVAN; HICKS, JONATHAN P GREGORY W MEEKS (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1998



331 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 2699 words

HEADLINE: SKIPPING THE RACE -- A special report.;
Run for Congress? Parties Find Rising Stars Are Just Saying No

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE 

DATELINE: MOUNT VERNON, Ill.

 BODY:
Darla Wexstten was soaking in the bathtub one Saturday morning in December when her husband, Jim, raced up the stairs and summoned her to the phone. The White House was on the line. Wrapped in a towel and dripping wet, Ms. Wexstten listened intently as President Clinton gently tried to persuade her to seek the House seat from the 20th Congressional District in south central Illinois.
Mr. Clinton should not have needed a hard sell with Ms. Wexstten, a social worker who was born and reared in this rural town. The statistics speak for themselves: A Democrat, Richard J. Durbin, held the seat from 1982 until he gave it up to run, successfully, for the Senate in 1996. The Republican who succeeded him, Representative John Shimkus, is a freshman who was elected by a margin of only 1,238 votes in one of the closest House races in the country. And Mr. Shimkus, a former high school teacher, is still struggling to make a name for himself. 
 "I told him the truth: that it's an honor to be asked but I had not made a decision," Ms. Wexstten recalled. "It's hard to say no to your Commander in Chief. I told him I'd give it another evening of prayerful consideration. He talked about how this is a winnable seat. He said: 'This is a hard life. There are days I wouldn't want to wish it on anybody. But we have important work to do.' "
After more agonizing, more lists of pros and cons and more prayer, Ms. Wexstten decided that her most important work was not in the Congress but with her 13-year-old daughter, Erin Beth. "I could tell that she really did want me to stay home," she said as her husband kissed Erin Beth on the head. "And that's fine."
Three days after Mr. Clinton's call -- and weeks after Democratic leaders had first approached Ms. Wexstten about running -- the deadline for a Democrat to file in the race against Mr. Shimkus came and went. One of the most vulnerable incumbents in the country had escaped without an opponent.
Ms. Wexstten is not alone. Dozens of rising stars, Democrats and Republicans alike, decided not to run for Congress this year in what political strategists describe as a growing trend. Even after wheedling from the President (or, in the case of Republicans, from Speaker Newt Gingrich) and promises of money from Washington, fewer prospects are swayed by the allure of power and influence of the United States Congress, officials in both parties concede.
In interviews throughout the country, people who chose not to run in 1998 -- many for what appeared to be winnable seats -- offered many reasons. But the explanations were similar: would-be members of Congress complained that the rigors of fund-raising and of being away from home exacted too much of a personal toll.
And even if they could be assured of being elected to the $136,700-a-year position (it would have been a raise of more than $80,000 for Ms. Wexstten), many people said that serving in the House was no longer an enticing calling. Several said they could make more of a difference serving in their state legislatures than in the United States Congress.
"One of the reasons you run is to get something accomplished," said Mark O'Keefe, the state auditor in Montana, one of several Democrats who resisted pressure from the national party to run for the House. "But to get anything accomplished as a member of the minority is very difficult. Do I want to get lost in a crowd of 435 folks? Not much."
Tim Weeden, a Republican State Senator from Beloit, Wis., said he had no qualms about raising the $100,000 he needed for his re-election campaign to state office this year. But he said a major reason he backed down from what looked like a reasonable shot at winning an open House seat was that he would have had to collect 10 times that amount.
"I would have had to engage in some things that I don't find very tasteful," said Mr. Weeden, who is 46. "Like cold calling. Like asking current contributors to give me 10 times more than they have in the past. Not only do you raise that kind of money now, but as soon as the election is over you turn around and do it all over again. I can't even see doing it once. But to do it over and over again is something I just wouldn't be able to do."
Recruiting the most appealing, and formidable, candidates is more than an exercise in vanity for the political parties. Democrats need to pick up only 11 seats to win back control of the House. The success or failure of party recruiters can have an important bearing on which candidates can best raise money, draw political support -- and ultimately win. Beyond the election itself, a critical result of recruiting is the quality (or lack thereof) of candidates who end up in Congress.
The failure of people to run has consequences far beyond the November election. Besides robbing the political process of competition, there is a cost to the civic culture because the absence of the highest quality candidates feeds into the public's increasing alienation from Washington and from the process of governing.
One who is not complaining is Mr. Shimkus, who said he now felt little pressure to put his re-election campaign into full gear. "For a new member who won in a close election, it's as good as I could have expected," he said. "I'm trying to analyze, myself, why this has occurred."
 
The Money Chase
A Relentless Pace, And to What End?
Several potential contenders focused on a harsh yet unavoidable (unless you are independently wealthy) reality of running for Congress in 1998: the need to amass huge stockpiles of cash and, if successful, to turn around and hit up donors again for the race two years later.
Jay Hoffman, a Democratic State Representative in Illinois who barely lost to Mr. Shimkus two years ago, said the constant chase for money was a critical factor in his decision to pass up another run. "Last time, I raised $800,000 and it wasn't enough," he said. "This time, I'd need probably a million or so. I found the constant need to raise resources to be competitive a bit repulsive."
Former Representative Bill Martini, a Republican of Clifton, N.J., who was elected in 1994 and lost his seat two years later, said the overwhelming financial demands in the costly New York media market were too much to bear.
"The emphasis is too much on fund-raising, and that's not what led me to run in the first place," said Mr. Martini, who last month passed up a rematch against Representative Bill Pascrell Jr., a freshman Democrat.
Representative Martin Frost of Texas, chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, said that he was hearing such complaints with increasing intensity. "The whole thing has gone crazy," he said. "The cost of television advertising has so far outpaced the general inflation rate that it's very expensive to run, and that's a factor for people. That's why in both parties now you tend to have more candidates who are independently wealthy or who have substantial ties to the business community."
Beyond the financial costs, many prospective candidates said, simply, that serving in Congress was no longer a dream job. "A family ought to have a father -- and I'm it," said Mr. O'Keefe of Helena, Mont. "To commute every week to Washington, D.C., would have destroyed everyone's life."
Even Mr. Weeden, the Republican from Wisconsin, said the chance of being part of a House majority did not entice him. "Look what I have now in terms of seniority and position -- a four-year term and an ability to get things done here in the Wisconsin Senate," said Mr. Weeden, who was first elected to the State Assembly in 1984. "Compare that with going to Washington, where I'd be a nobody for probably two or three terms, at least. It was really no comparison." There was little appeal, he said, in "being part of an institution that doesn't seem to be achieving a great deal right now. They do a lot more talking, a lot more partisan wrangling, than working toward solutions."
But, like many others who suppressed their ambition this year, Mr. Weeden is not entirely comfortable with his decision. "My biggest fear," he said, "is that I'll be sitting in a wheelchair at 85 years old and look back on a missed opportunity."
 
The Recruiting Wars
Strong Language, Gentle Persuasion
For months, Democrats and Republicans have tried to gain an advantage in a public relations war over which side is fielding the best candidates. The National Republican Congressional Committee regularly puts out a flier called "Dropping Like Flies: Democratic Recruitment Failures," which has tallied more than 100 potential Democratic candidates who decided not to run. (Democratic officials counter that the list is misleading because it includes candidates who never seriously thought about running.)
And the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee aggressively touts its "team of first stringers," while attacking Republicans with news releases like one that proclaimed, "G.O.P. Comes Up Empty in Texas."
Democrats are so sensitive about their recruitment efforts that the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee agreed to -- and then canceled -- plans to allow a reporter to sit in on sessions in which officials tried to coax candidates into running. "For us, it would look especially bad if a candidate decided not to run," a committee aide explained, speaking on the condition of anonymity. "We'd have egg on our face."
Despite some successes for both parties, Republicans appear to be faring slightly better than Democrats, and can point to more competitive seats for which Democrats have not found particularly strong candidates -- or any candidates at all. Although filing deadlines have still not passed in several states, it is almost too late to recruit winning candidates because of the months of fund-raising and preparations needed to mount a successful race.
In many districts, Republicans and Democrats had boasted about hot recruits who never materialized. Speaker Gingrich and other Republicans tried but failed to persuade Brent Jones, the former San Francisco 49ers tight end, to take on a freshman, Representative Ellen O. Tauscher of California. And they could not come up with a challenger to Representative Chet Edwards of Texas in a district where Bob Dole easily defeated Mr. Clinton in the 1996 Presidential race. "That's what I consider the only failure," said Representative John Linder of Georgia, chairman of the National Republican Congressional Committee.
Democrats had their share of setbacks. For months, they said State Judge John Ellington would be the ideal candidate to challenge Representative C. Saxby Chambliss, a Georgia Republican, in a district that Mr. Clinton carried in 1996. Mr. Ellington chose not to run.
Leading lawmakers in both parties often fan out around the country to wine and dine prospects, and often hook them up with current members to discuss family matters like finding schools for their children. For the best hopes, the parties even conduct polls to show they could win.
"If we find a top-tier candidate, we really go after them pretty hard," said Representative Steny H. Hoyer, a Maryland Democrat who has recruited candidates for years. "It's like a basketball coach or a football coach. When you're recruiting, you don't want to offend the player but you want them to know you think they would be a great success."
Roger Bedford, a State Senator from Russellville, Ala., who was the state's Democratic nominee for Senate in 1996, said Mr. Clinton had telephoned to urge him to run for a House seat. "He talked about how there were good schools in the Washington area and said you could have good quality time with your children even in the Washington environment," he said, adding that the President offered to campaign in the district with him and "told me he would help me put the finances together to have a winning race."
Mr. Bedford said that the President was "a very persuasive gentleman," but that he had chosen not to run. These days, it is not just the women candidates who put family concerns at the top of their list. "I just decided it was more important to be a good dad than a freshman Congressman," Mr. Bedford said.
 
The Decision
For One Prospect, Prayer and Conflict
When Mr. Clinton called her that Saturday, Ms. Wexstten said, it was like a message from God that she should run. Only an hour or two earlier, she had received word that her husband's grandmother had died after a long illness. "My brother is a minister and he prayed with me," she said. "We needed some clarity."
Ms. Wexstten, 44, who describes herself as a charismatic Christian and a liberal Democrat, still keeps in her Bible a sheet of paper that is a blueprint of her deliberations. At the top of the list she wrote, "Family," and listed her husband and three daughters. Among her jottings: "Is this of the Lord? What impact could I make in D.C.? Is this the desire of my heart? The next five years of my life. What do I want for my life?"
Ms. Wexstten was not the Democrats' first choice, but several local elected officials decided to sit out the race. So party leaders settled on Ms. Wexstten, who had never run for public office but had been active in local politics and was considered an articulate, politically astute and lively contrast to Mr. Shimkus.
Take a look at the Wexsttens' rambling house deep in the woods, with picture windows overlooking a pond, and it is easier to understand why Ms. Wexstten could not be lulled into seeking office. As Darla, Jim and Erin Beth Wexstten sat comfortably in their living room one recent morning, it quickly became clear how Ms. Wexstten felt tugs in both directions. Although Ms. Wexstten was excited at the prospect of delving into social policy issues, it was never her dream to serve in Congress.
By contrast, Jim Wexstten, a state circuit judge who bears a striking resemblance to Bill Clinton, could barely contain his disappointment that his wife did not run. He explained that he would not give up the bench for the uncertainties of political office himself, but that he had hoped that he could "live vicariously" through his wife. He even had a campaign slogan: "Democrats for Darla!" He was so thrilled by Mr. Clinton's phone call that he listened in on the extension.
But Erin Beth Wexstten, an eighth grader who loves practicing her ballet routines, was not enchanted by the prospect of living apart from her mother. "I wanted her to stay home," Erin Beth said. "Every time I'm not with her a day or two, it's hard. I need my mom."
At the heart of Ms. Wexstten's thinking was the big white refrigerator in her kitchen. "Until my kid is grown," she said, pointing to the lists of car pools, dance classes and family photographs plastered on the refrigerator, "this is my life."
But the unrelenting telephone calls, not only from the President but from a parade of Democrats in Washington and Illinois, made it an excruciating decision. "I felt so honored by the President's phone call that I went to a high school basketball game and they played the national anthem and I cried," Ms. Wexstten said. "I don't care what four-letter words are used in describing politics these days. It's still an honor to serve. I understand that this opportunity might not come around for me."
Democrats still hope that Rick Verticchio, who plans to run as a write-in candidate in the party's primary on Tuesday, will collect enough signatures to be the nominee in November. Still, when Mr. Frost was asked about his biggest recruiting disappointment this year, he said: "If we had to point to any one, it was the Shimkus seat in Illinois. That was a seat where we really wanted to find a strong candidate."
Had she made the race, Ms. Wexstten said, she would have felt compelled to raise at least $800,000 and "give it 110 percent" of her energy -- no easy task in a rural district that takes six hours to drive from one end to the other.
Gazing at her daughter and her husband, Ms. Wexstten said she kept thinking, "What would it be like to wake up every day without my family? Not able to go in and get her breakfast, not snuggle with her, and not sleep with him?"

GRAPHIC: Photos: The thought of having to raise $1 million kept Tim Weeden, a State Senator from Beloit, Wis., out of a race for an open House seat. (John Saller for The New York Times); Darla Wexstten is among those who could not be be swayed by the allure of power and influence to run for Congress. She will stay in Mount Vernon, Ill., with her daughter, Erin, and her husband, Jim. (Bill Stover for The New York Times)(pg. 24)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESS (US)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; SURVEYS AND SERIES; FINANCES US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TRENDS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (69%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (53%); 

PERSON: BERKE, RICHARD L; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); GINGRICH, NEWT (SPEAKER) BILL CLINTON (91%); JOHN SHIMKUS (79%); RICHARD DURBIN (72%); NEWT GINGRICH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1998



332 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 28; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 601 words

HEADLINE: TESTING OF A PRESIDENT;
Text of Monica Lewinsky's Affidavit in Paula Jones's Suit Against the President

 BODY:
Following is the affidavit by Monica S. Lewinsky, the former White House intern at the center of accusations of sexual misconduct by President Clinton, which was filed in connection with Paula Corbin Jones's lawsuit against the President. The affidavit was included by Ms. Jones's lawyers in their filing on Friday in response to a motion by Mr. Clinton's lawyers to have the suit dismissed. Although it is standard procedure to describe it as an "affidavit of Jane Doe," it is signed by Ms. Lewinsky. 

Affidavit of Jane Doe #

 1. My name is Jane Doe # number marked out . I am 24 years old and I currently reside at 700 New Hampshire Avenue, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20037.
2. On Dec. 19, 1997, I was served with a subpoena from the plaintiff to give a deposition and to produce documents in the lawsuit filed by Paula Corbin Jones against President William Jefferson Clinton and Danny Ferguson.
3. I cannot fathom any reason that the plaintiff would seek information from me for her case.
4. I have never met Ms. Jones, nor do I have any information regarding the events she alleges occurred at the Excelsior Hotel on May 8, 1991, or any other information concerning any of the allegations in her case.
5. I worked at the White House in the summer of 1995 as a White House intern. Beginning in December 1995, I worked in the Office of Legislative Affairs as a staff assistant for correspondence. In April 1996, I accepted a job as assistant to the Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs at the U.S. Department of Defense. I maintained that job until Dec. 26, 1997. I am currently unemployed but seeking a new job.
6. In the course of my employment at the White House, I met President Clinton several times. I also saw the President at a number of social functions held at the White House. When I worked as an intern, he appeared at occasional functions attended by me and several other interns. The correspondence I drafted while I worked at the Office of Legislative Affairs was seen and edited by supervisors who either had the President's signature affixed by mechanism or, I believe, had the President sign the correspondence itself.
7. I have the utmost respect for the President, who has always behaved appropriately in my presence.
8. I have never had a sexual relationship with the President, he did not propose that we have a sexual relationship, he did not offer me employment or other benefits in exchange for a sexual relationship, he did not deny me employment or other benefits for rejecting a sexual relationship. I do not know of any other person who had a sexual relationship with the President, was offered employment or other benefits in exchange for a sexual relationship, or was denied employment or other benefits for rejecting a sexual relationship. The occasions that I saw the President after I left my employment at the White House in April 1996 were official receptions, formal functions or events related to the U.S. Department of Defense, where I was working at the time. There were other people present on those occasions.
9. Since I do not possess any information that could possibly be relevant to the allegations made by Paula Jones or lead to admissible evidence in this case, I asked my attorney to provide this affidavit to plaintiff's counsel. Requiring my deposition in this matter would cause disruption in my life, especially since I am looking for employment, unwarranted attorney's fees and costs, and constitute an invasion to privacy.
I declare under the penalty of perjury that the foregoing is true and correct. Monica S. Lewinsky

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: WASHINGTON, DC, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARKANSAS; UNITED STATES (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, DC, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: SEXUAL HARASSMENT; ETHICS; SUITS AND LITIGATION LITIGATION (94%); SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); MISCONDUCT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (90%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (89%); SEXTING (78%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (78%); ETHICS (78%); DEPOSITIONS (77%); SUBPOENAS (73%); TESTIMONY (73%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (72%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (72%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (64%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); LEWINSKY, MONICA S; JONES, PAULA CORBIN BILL CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1998



333 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 38; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 568 words

HEADLINE: In Stratford, the Return of Shakespeare

BYLINE: By JIM YARDLEY 

 BODY:
The shuttered American Festival Theater in Stratford, Conn., which introduced tens of thousands of schoolchildren in the Northeast to Shakespeare, is being resurrected after years of dormancy and decline.
Officials from the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection are expected to announce tomorrow the sale of the theater's 14-acre site, on the Housatonic River in the heart of Stratford's historic district, to a nonprofit organization, Stratford Festival Theater Inc. The group will pay $1.5 million in several installments, said its secretary-treasurer, Louis D. Pieteg. 
 "It will be a boon for tourism and a cultural opportunity for Stratford, the state of Connecticut and the Northeast," Mr. Pieteg said.
The overall project includes renovating the existing theater and building two smaller theaters, and is to include an academy and a museum. Costs could reach $180 million, a state official said.
Mr. Pieteg said fund-raising would begin almost immediately. Financing is also being provided by Starcom, a company controlled by three Philadelphia businessmen. A structural and mechanical assessment of the existing theater will determine how much renovation is required. As a result, no firm date can be set for the first performance.
"We would love to do something this summer," said Louis S. Burke, a South African theater producer with Broadway experience who will be artistic director of the new theater company.
Built in 1955 and designed to resemble Shakespeare's Globe Theater in London, the 1,500-seat theater offered only midyear performances until its financial collapse forced it to close in 1982. It reopened only once, for a brief, failed summer run in 1989. The State of Connecticut bought the theater out of bankruptcy several years ago but never reopened it.
In 1995, State Senator George (Doc) Gunther, a Stratford Republican, prepared a law to sell the theater and surrounding land to a private developer.
But Mr. Gunther said the law's strict requirements also delayed the purchase. The law required that the theater offer at least one production of Shakespeare every year for 20 years.
"We didn't want a glitzy shopping center with hotels and motels," Mr. Gunther said. "This is a beautiful location."
Mr. Burke said the new regional theater would operate year-round. Having moved to Stratford from New York in 1993, Mr. Burke directed a production of "Murder in the Cathedral" that opened Friday night at a Stratford church.
Within 60 to 90 days, Mr. Burke's group must present a design and development plan to the state. A priority, Mr. Pieteg said, will be to determine the condition of the electrical, heating and plumbing systems in the theater. Mr. Burke recalled having noticed mushrooms sprouting in the foyer.
But Mr. Pieteg said the theater "is in surprisingly good shape considering the length of time it has been closed." Built with teak, the theater was a vibrant cultural center for decades. Schoolchildren from Connecticut and other Northeastern states were often brought in buses to see their first performance of Shakespeare.
Mr. Burke began trying to buy the theater in 1990. The state selected his nonprofit group as its preferred developer in 1995, but negotiations to complete the sale lasted three years.
"I think Shakespeare said it best," Mr. Burke said. "He said, 'Perseverance, dear my Lord, keeps honor bright.' "

GRAPHIC: Photo: In 1960, a trip to Stratford to see Shakespeare also meant that students had a chance to eat lunch on the lawn outside the theater. The existing theater will be renovated and new structures added. (Sam Falk/The New York Times)
 
Map of Connecticut showing the location of Stratford: The theater will present at least one Shakespeare play a year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (71%); 

COMPANY: STRATFORD FESTIVAL THEATER INC STRATFORD FESTIVAL THEATER INC (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: STRATFORD FESTIVAL THEATER INC

GEOGRAPHIC: STRATFORD (CONN); UNITED STATES (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); LONDON, ENGLAND (71%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; AMERICAN FESTIVAL THEATER (STRATFORD, CONN); MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES THEATER (91%); FESTIVALS (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); CHILDREN (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (75%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); RETAILERS (72%); HOTELS & MOTELS (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (64%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (64%); 

PERSON: YARDLEY, JIM; SHAKESPEARE, WILLIAM (1564-1616) LOUIS D PIETEG (89%); GEORGE (DOC) GUNTHER (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1998



334 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 43; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 332 words

HEADLINE: Charles F. Phillips, 87, President Of Bates College for 23 Years

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER 

 BODY:
Charles F. Phillips, a former president of Bates College in Lewiston, Me., who helped oversee the Government's rationing of goods during World War II, died at the Central Maine Medical Center in Auburn on Tuesday. He was 87 and lived in Auburn.
When he became president of Bates in 1944, Mr. Phillips was the youngest president in its history. He was born in Nelson, Pa., in 1910. 
 He graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Colgate University in 1931 and received a doctorate in economics from Harvard University in 1934.
After short teaching stints in economics at Hobart College and Colgate University, Mr. Phillips served with the Office of Price Administration during World War II as deputy administrator for rationing.
Among his duties were warning the transportation industry of severe rubber shortages, rationing tires, keeping pleasure driving in check to conserve fuel and occasionally sparring with drivers groups.
For example, when the Automobile Club of New York proposed in 1944 that gasoline rations to American drivers be increased to match the amount being sold on the black market, Mr. Phillips fired off a letter to its president: "The vast majority of American car owners are patriotically living within their gasoline allotments. The black market lives on the small minority of people who either do not understand or who disregard the damaging effects of the traffic and the fact that it springs from criminal roots."
After the war, he became president of Bates, overseeing a large expansion in its faculty and infrastructure.
He retired from the position in 1967, but continued to work as a consultant to General Electric and other companies and as a director on several corporate boards.
He also wrote several textbooks on marketing and retailing.
He is survived by one son, Charles Phillips Jr., of Lexington, Va.; one daughter, Carol Ann Taylor, of Birmingham, Ala.; five grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren. His wife, Evelyn, died six months ago.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (54%); GEC (LSE) (54%); GE (SWX) (54%); GE (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MAINE, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (54%); COLGATE UNIVERSITY (83%); COLGATE UNIVERSITY (83%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (57%); PHI BETA KAPPA (57%); PHI BETA KAPPA (57%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLGATE UNIVERSITY (83%); COLGATE UNIVERSITY (83%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (57%); PHI BETA KAPPA (57%); PHI BETA KAPPA (57%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MAINE, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); WORLD WAR II (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); TEXTBOOKS (78%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (75%); GASOLINE (74%); STUDENT HONOR SOCIETIES (73%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (69%); GRANDCHILDREN (68%); 

PERSON: PHILLIPS, CHARLES F; STEINHAUER, JENNIFER CHARLES F PHILLIPS (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1998



335 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1929 words

HEADLINE: Thieves Methodically Strip Iraq Of Treasures From a Storied Past

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

DATELINE: HATRA, Iraq

 BODY:
A little over a year ago, in a brazen act of vandalism becoming very familiar here, thieves struck the ruins of this ancient temple city, once the capital of a mysterious kingdom whose people worshiped the Sun, the Moon and Mars. The thieves were discriminating. They lopped off the head from a priceless, recently restored statue of a king 18 centuries old.
A few hundred miles to the south, in Babylon, several glass cases in a local museum were smashed to remove the finest examples of cuneiform writing on clay tablets and small cylinder seals used to authenticate Babylonian documents. 
 A few months ago, at Khorsabad, the magnificent head of an Assyrian winged bull from a first century B.C. palace was cut off and then sawed into 11 pieces for easier shipping.
All over Iraq, the modern nation situated in the fertile crescent of ancient Mesopotamia, centuries of history are disappearing piece by piece, Iraqi archeologists and Western scholars say. American experts who worked in Iraq before the 1991 Persian Gulf war, among them McGuire Gibson of the University of Chicago and John Malcolm Russell of Columbia University, have been warning for several years that Iraq's archeological sites are in danger of being stripped clean.
Visits to several sites and museums provide a rare look at how and why this is happening.
The thieves arrive with guns, knockout drugs, cars with false license plates and armies of desert nomads prepared to dig for meager daily wages. They often have lists of what to take, said Mouad Said, director general of Iraq's Department of Antiquities and Heritage.
"This criminal world is so well organized," Mr. Said said, "that we can trace some routes directly from a Bedouin tent in the desert to one of the main dealers or collectors in England, the United States or Switzerland."
Several factors are now combining to make Iraq highly vulnerable to archeological theft.
First, there is the trove itself.
For much of this century, Iraq had been assiduously restoring and guarding its antiquities and archeological sites, prohibiting or strictly limiting the export of artifacts. The process accelerated under the Iraqi monarchy set up by the British after World War I when the defeated Ottoman Empire, which had ruled Iraq since the 16th century, was dismantled and Britain, whose troops occupied Baghdad in 1917, was given a mandate to administer the country.
A British archeologist, Gertrude Bell, who came to Iraq as secretary to the British Governor, was instrumental in helping Iraq set up institutions to preserve its exceptional heritage. She was also often a lone voice against the longstanding European practice of pillaging sites for Western museums and private collectors.
The country became a treasure house of extraordinary proportions, and everything was scrupulously catalogued. The Iraq Museum in Baghdad was ranked among the world's greatest of its kind. Around the country, dozens of history and archeological museums were built.
Iraqi archeologists say they have always been aware that they are responsible for safeguarding a heritage significant beyond the country's borders.
"Mesopotamia is not the cultural property of the Iraqi Government," Mr. Said said. "It is the property of humankind. Everybody knows that the cradle of Mediterranean and Western and Arab civilizations lies in large part in Mesopotamia as well as in Egypt and Greece."
The Garden of Eden blossomed here, legends say. More verifiably, this was the home of Sumerian, Babylonian and Assyrian empires whose collective records date back 7,000 years. Here, cities were first built and recognizable governments established. The plow and wheel and irrigation systems were perfected. Writing was systematized and the first known written legal code was compiled by Hammurabi, who ruled Babylon in the 18th century B.C.
 
Work at Site Stops, With Sanctions Cited
The work of discovering and restoring archeological sites survived the fall of the monarchy in 1958, the political turmoil that followed and Saddam Hussein's rise to full power in 1979.
Here in Hatra, Ismail Rashid, the archeologist in charge, said work went on largely uninterrupted from the 1930's until 1995, when it was abruptly stopped by the Government, which said the money for restoration had run out. The Government blamed international sanctions imposed on Iraq after its 1990 invasion of Kuwait, as it does for all catastrophes that have befallen the country since then.
But money has not run out for the construction of huge palaces for Mr. Hussein and his clan. Nor is Iraq short of soldiers or unemployed people to guard archeological sites. Most sites, however, are left unattended. At Hatra, an old man with a hunting rifle is all the security the archeologists can afford for a site scattered over hundreds of acres.
Hatra, more than 200 miles northwest of Baghdad, is of special importance because so little is known of the people who lived here and there is much to be learned from what they left behind.
This was a pre-Islamic kingdom that lasted four centuries, from the late second century B.C. to 241 A.D., when it was overthrown by Persians. These people were Aramaic speakers who had been influenced by the Greek, Roman and Hellenistic civilizations. Medusa and Hippocrates are depicted in reliefs on temple walls.
Hatra was apparently the center of a polytheistic religion, with a huge central temple complex and smaller sanctuaries. Its three primary gods -- Mirn, Marmartan and Birmin -- have been identified as the Sun God, the Moon Goddess and Mars, or "Son of the Master of the Universe."
A custom in Hatra left unusual personal records of its citizens. People apparently had statues of themselves and their families placed at their homes, with inscriptions relating events in their lives.
Iraqi scholars are fascinated by what a study of a pre-Islamic Arabic culture like this could teach the contemporary Middle East. For now, however, blocks of stone lie waiting for archeologists. And out of the emptiness of the scrubland for miles around thieves have struck Hatra again and again, Mr. Said said in an interview in his Baghdad office. He said the life-size royal head stolen from Hatra a year ago was located when it was offered for sale in London. Fortunately, he said, the buyer decided to return it to Iraq.
Mr. Said said a pattern had developed: an artifact is selected and a contract made with Iraqi smugglers to steal it.
The problem apparently predates the gulf war, though Iraqi officials do not want to talk about that. In the 1980's, a seven-year war with Iran deflected Government attention from archeology and the tourist industry that Iraq once planned to create around it. At Hatra, an abandoned tourist hotel stands forlornly on the horizon.
The situation deteriorated sharply after the invasion of Kuwait and the gulf war. Museums were widely looted, especially in the south, where a brief rebellion took place. Thirty museums are now empty, Mr. Said said. In Baghdad, the Iraq Museum was closed during the war to protect it from American bombing, the Government said. It has never reopened.
Then the looting of unprotected archeological sites began.
Mr. Said said the theft of Mesopotamian treasures had fallen roughly into three phases. The first was the wartime and postwar looting, carried out almost at random. "Then the organized smuggling began," he said, describing the second phase, from about 1992 to 1994.
For example, he said: "Gangs in the north attacked the monastery of al-Sayda at al-Qosh, north of Mosul. The monastery, one of the oldest in the Christian world, had its own museum. They gathered all the monks and put them in one room and stole all the relics."
Smugglers took pieces out of the country to Saudi Arabia and Jordan or through the semiautonomous Kurdish areas of the north to Iran and Turkey, he said. And operations became more technically skillful and more directly linked to specific "orders" placed by collectors and even indirectly by museums abroad.
Mr. Said would not name the museums or dealers, but said some were in the United States and Britain. Swiss auction houses handled some objects too hot for London, he said.
"In Ashur, thieves came in cars with fake numbers corresponding to license plates issued to members of our department," he said. "They played as if they were sent from us. They knocked out the guards with injections."
 
An Army of Diggers Find the Best Pieces
In the third phase, starting around 1994, he continued, thieves "invade an unexcavated site with hundreds of peasants and Bedouin who dig like -- shall I say -- ants for one or two days." The site is quickly stripped of the best pieces.
Mr. Said said the Government could not be blamed for poor security. A 1994 law gives courts the right to impose a death sentence on people who steal antiquities, Mr. Said said, and the police have generally been helpful in pursuing cases. He added that about 900 people had been arrested in the last six years.
Like other Iraqi officials, he blames the United Nations Security Council sanctions committee, which has turned down his request for, among other things, two additional cars for his staff, photographic equipment to document valuable pieces in case they must be traced and a computer to create a data base.
Mr. Said said that adding more experts to his staff and making them more mobile would be a deterrent. "My request was for only $57,000," he said.
The United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization supported Mr. Said's request for an embargo exemption. But officials of the agency said they must abide by sanctions committee decisions.
Given the large numbers of imported cars in Baghdad, Iraqis and foreign experts say it is difficult to understand why the Security Council thinks that two automobiles for the antiquities department would help prop up President Hussein. Or one computer and a few cameras, when other Government offices bristle with technology.
But perhaps what most disturbs archeologists is the growing awareness of how many Iraqis are involved in the illegal trade, and not all of them, as the Government insists, desperate for money because of the sanctions. Sanctions, however, do make illegal trading more tempting.
 
How High Do Links To Smugglers Go?
No one will entertain questions about how high in the country's leadership links to smugglers can be traced. Mr. Said deflects blame to collectors abroad and sometimes to foreign diplomats and United Nations officials. He said Iraq had confiscated artifacts in diplomatic pouches, which he said would be displayed at the Iraq Museum, along with their contents. At the museum, however, a curator did not seem to know about these items. United Nations officials said that they had not heard of such charges.
Mr. Said told a revealing story about the head of the Assyrian winged bull stolen from Khorsabad. The police caught a gang of thieves with the 1,500-pound loot, he said. They were tried under the new law and at least six have been executed.
They appeared to be members of a new business elite based on smuggling, Mr. Said said.
"They were rich people," he said. "And they have destroyed one of the most magnificent pieces in the world. They have chopped off the bull's head and cut it into 11 pieces.
"Iraqis will never accept two things -- narcotics or the destruction of relics. But these people were willing to take handsaws and cut up this magnificent piece for $250,000."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Thieves have struck repeatedly at Hatra, Iraq, whose temple complex was built between the second century B.C. and the second century A.D. Among the stolen items was the priceless head of the statue of a king. (Barbara Crossette/The New York Times)(pg. 6)
 
Map of Iraq showing the location of Hatra: The ruins of Hatra lie in the fertile crescent of ancient Mesopotamia. (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); ENGLAND (79%); GULF STATES (78%); 

STATE: EARTH'S MOON (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (55%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (55%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (55%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (55%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (55%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); ENGLAND (79%); GULF STATES (78%); EARTH'S MOON (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (55%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: ARCHEOLOGY AND ANTHROPOLOGY; LOOT AND LOOTING; VANDALISM ARCHAEOLOGY (91%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (91%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); VANDALISM (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); HISTORIC SITES (89%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (76%); ARMIES (74%); DESERT STORM (73%); WORLD WAR I (72%); EXPORT CONTROLS (65%); ARMED FORCES (64%); GOVERNORS (62%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1998



336 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 19; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 485 words

HEADLINE: Study Finds That Youngest U.S. Children Are Poorest

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN 

 BODY:
While the number of American children living in poverty has declined from the peak of 1993, children younger than 6 remain the poorest age group in the nation, according to a study by the National Center for Children in Poverty.
The study, released on Wednesday, found that 5.5 million children, nearly 1 in 4, were living in poverty in 1996, compared with 6.4 million three years earlier. 
 And the percentage of poor young children with working parents has increased substantially in that period. In fact, 63 percent of the poor children were in families with at least one working parent, compared with 54 percent in 1993. Most of the increase occurred in 1995.
Since 1993, more than six million Americans, mostly children, have left the welfare rolls. That trend has accelerated since the Federal welfare law of 1996, which required that recipients of public aid find jobs. Although it is too early to analyze the law's effects on child poverty, the study highlights how many jobs pay too little to lift a family out of poverty. Even in families where the single mothers worked full time, the report found, 17 percent of the children under 6 still lived in poverty.
"Many working families with young children are still struggling to escape poverty," said the director of the center, Dr. Lawrence Aber. "The United States continues to have the highest rate of young-child poverty of any Western industrialized nation. Decades of experience teach us that we cannot rely on economic growth alone to overcome young-child poverty."
The poverty rate of young children rose faster among Hispanic groups than among white or black children. Over the three years, the percentage of poor Hispanic children younger than 6 grew 54 percent, compared with a 30 percent rise among whites and 15 percent among blacks.
Children living with unmarried mothers were about five times as likely to be poor as those living with married parents.
The study is based on the Census Bureau's most recent Current Population Survey. In 1996, the official poverty line was $16,036 a year for a family of four and $12,516 for a family of three. Almost half the young children in poverty, however, were in families with extremely low incomes, less than half those levels.
The study also applied an alternative measure of poverty to gauge how government programs and policies affect child poverty. Unlike the official measure of poverty used by the Government, the alternative measure includes the value of food stamps, housing subsidies, school lunch benefits and the earned-income tax credit, which supplements the incomes of low-wage earners.
Using that measure, the study found that without the earned-income tax credit, the rate of young children who were living in poverty in 1996 would have been 23 percent higher.
"Our findings," Dr. Aber said, "clearly demonstrate how the right policies can make a difference."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL CENTER FOR CHILDREN IN POVERTY

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL CENTER FOR CHILDREN IN POVERTY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: CHILDREN AND YOUTH; UNITED STATES ECONOMY CHILD POVERTY (94%); CHILDREN (94%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (94%); POOR POPULATION (91%); POVERTY RATES (90%); FAMILY (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); PARENTS (89%); SINGLE PARENTS (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); TRENDS (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); TAX LAW (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (71%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (69%); CENSUS (68%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (68%); 

PERSON: SIR GEORGE YOUNG (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1998



337 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-15
 
Fertile Crescent's Relics Plundered in Modern Iraq
All over Iraq, the modern nation situated in the Fertile Crescent of ancient Mesopotamia, centuries of history are disappearing piece by piece, Iraqi archeologists and Western scholars say. American experts have been warning for several years that Iraq's archeological sites are in danger of being stripped clean. 1
 
Focusing on Ulster Peace
Irish and British officials, embarrassed by the sectarian violence and persistently dour image of Northern Ireland, have decided on the risky strategy of driving the lagging peace talks to an early conclusion. 12 

Out Here, Anything Goes
If ever there was a monument to free enterprise and the absence of regulation, it is Ciudad del Este, Paraguay, where 90 percent of what is sold is counterfeit, where 3,000 pounds of cocaine is shipped out every month, and where arms trafficking and money laundering are rampant. 3
 
Sewing Russia's Safety Net
In a backroom dispute over pension reform, it's the cash-rich World Bank that speaks and the cash-poor Russian Government that listens. 10
 
Sonia Gandhi, Party Chief
The election of Rajiv Gandhi's widow as leader of India's Congress Party reaffirmed the position of the family dynasty that has dominated the country since independence. 10
 
A Roadblock in Ghana
It may be the model of the African country that will grow its way out of poverty, but Ghana is still grappling with major setbacks. Just as investors seem most interested, a drought has created an energy crisis. 11
 
NATIONAL 18-32
 
Experts on Jones Case: Flaws and Weaknesses
In her 700-page court filing, Paula Corbin Jones may have presented enough evidence to have her sexual misconduct lawsuit against President Clinton heard by a judge and jury in Little Rock, Ark., in May. But many lawyers and law professors say her case still has significant flaws and weaknesses. 1
 
Now, as she prepares to tell the grand jury later this month about the Lewinsky tapes, Linda R. Tripp, who has emerged as the villain of the Clinton sex scandal, has begun to surface from her life underground. In dozens of interviews, friends, colleagues and former colleagues reveal a complex mosaic of a woman. 1
 
Many conservatives, even some who were at that news conference when Paula Corbin Jones introduced herself to the nation, question whether the Jones matter and the subsequent accusations involving Monica S. Lewinsky have snowballed out of control. 29
 
He/She: Whom to Believe?
When military jurors here considered the sexual misconduct charges against Sgt. Maj. Gene C. McKinney, they were caught in the same muddle that often complicates such harassment cases, whether civilian or military: Whom to believe when a woman says one thing and a man says another. 1
 
The Fading of Politics
Dozens of rising stars, Democrats and Republicans alike, decided not to run for Congress this year in what political strategists describe as a growing trend. Fewer prospects are swayed by the allure of power and influence, officials of both parties concede. 1
 
NEW YORK/REGION 33-41
 
Mystery Booksellers
It is an enduring mystery in New York City: Where do sidewalk booksellers get those cheap best sellers? How can they sell new hardcover books from a variety of publishers for as little as half the cover price, including a supposed sales tax? And how do these sellers get blockbuster books so quickly? No one -- not publishers, not booksellers, not public officials -- has precise answers. 33
 
Obstacles for Giuliani
How do Republicans assess the national prospects of Rudolph W. Giuliani in the year 2000? While Mayor Giuliani has embarked on what aides have described as a concerted effort to win attention as a potential candidate for President or Vice President, interviews with Republican leaders suggest that he would face considerable obstacles in any bid for a national office. 33
 
Key Testimony in Brawley Case
Steven A. Pagones, the former Dutchess County prosecutor who is suing three former advisers of Tawana Brawley -- Alton H. Maddox Jr., C. Vernon Mason and the Rev. Al Sharpton -- for defamation, is expected to take the witness stand later this week or early next. 33
 
OBITUARIES 42-43
 
Ilse Bing
One of the few surviving members of the fabled group of avant-garde artists who gathered in Paris in the early 1930's and produced brilliantly unorthodox and inventive photography, was 98. 43
 
Adrian Marks
The Navy pilot who rescued 56 sailors struggling in the shark-filled Philippine Sea after the cruiser Indianapolis was sunk by Japanese torpedoes in July 1945, was 81. 43
 
Rudolf Baranik
The painter, writer and teacher well known in the art world for his political advocacy, was 77. 42
 
TV Update 42
 
Weather 41

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS (52%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (96%); GHANA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRELAND (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); INDIA (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WORLD BANK (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (96%); GHANA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRELAND (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); INDIA (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MISCONDUCT (87%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (86%); ARCHAEOLOGY (78%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (78%); HISTORIC SITES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); SCANDALS (76%); SEX SCANDALS (76%); CONSERVATISM (71%); INTERVIEWS (71%); POLITICS (71%); MONEY LAUNDERING (68%); JURY TRIALS (68%); GRAND JURY (68%); COCAINE (68%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (68%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (68%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (67%); JUDGES (66%); LAWYERS (65%); SUITS & CLAIMS (65%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (65%); LITIGATION (63%); PRESS CONFERENCES (60%); PEACE PROCESS (56%); PENSION REFORM (53%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); SONIA GANDHI (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1998



338 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 7; Page 15; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1328 words

HEADLINE: The Gap

BYLINE: By Andrew Porter; Andrew Porter, the Rhodes Professor of Imperial History at King's College, London, is the editor of "The Oxford History of the British Empire, Volume 3: The Nineteenth Century," to be published next year.

 BODY:

THE WEALTH AND POVERTY OF NATIONS
 Why Some Are So Rich
 and Some So Poor.
 By David S. Landes.
 650 pp. New York:
 W. W. Norton & Company. $30. 
 "We live in a world of inequality and diversity. . . . Now the big challenge and threat is the gap in wealth and health that separates rich and poor. . . . Here is the greatest single problem and danger facing the world of the third millennium." It is in the interests of rich as well as poor peoples to see this gap narrowed. David S. Landes believes, however, that progress toward that goal requires us first to recognize that the causes of this division are neither merely contemporary nor even recent but historic and very long-standing. To alleviate today's disparities we must first understand that they have their roots deeply embedded in the past 600 years or so of world history.
The result is "The Wealth and Poverty of Nations," a large book, a wealth of information and a striking if stark thesis. Landes argues that the key to national wealth in the modern world has been the Industrial Revolution, "begun in Britain in the 18th century and emulated around the world. . . . Some countries made an industrial revolution and became rich; and others did not and stayed poor." His emphasis on industrialization is less contentious than his reference to the making of that revolution. In asking what made it possible, Landes robustly dismisses many of the explanations that in recent decades have had their 15 minutes of fame. Natural endowments, including landscape, water, soils, minerals or climate, have been more or less important at different times, but they were never sufficient conditions: geography is not destiny. The timing of opportunities for industrial development has brought variations in the paths of individual countries but no insuperable obstacles. The making of an industrial revolution has always been dependent ultimately on a society's prior culture and continuing qualities. Riches, without the appropriate cultural traits, have never been secure or sustainable.
The first industrial revolution -- Britain's -- was the product of a society that had developed a sense of national cohesion; a capacity to compete; a respect for, and a concern to impart, empirical and technical knowledge; and a preference for advancement by merit or competence. Its members had the ability not just to acquire but to use money, they respected honesty, and their institutions provided security both for property and for enjoyment of the rewards of labor or enterprise. Other societies were able to follow, catch up with and overtake Britain because they could emulate its achievements. Perhaps they shared the crucial medieval legacy of curiosity, inventiveness and multiple sources of initiative, or derived its equivalent from internal sources. And they were sufficiently disciplined to forego present consumption for future gain. Thus the United States, Germany, Japan and Australia are among the rich. Their preconditioning, dominant values propelled them into the attempt to increase riches; their success, even while calling for defense by incessant adaptation, has generally bred success.
Other societies, much as their rulers and people may have wanted to be richer rather than poorer, have never quite made it -- at least not so far. They have proved incapable of generating from within themselves the necessary conditions for the creation of riches. Landes offers many reasons for these failures. Although Protestantism gets high marks, religion has much to answer for. From South America to the Middle East and South Asia, notably in the forms of Roman Catholicism and Islam, it has persistently elevated authority and cramped initiative, and it has encouraged values inimical to widespread experimentation and so exacerbated other more substantial difficulties. Landes argues that Islam's coincidence with the accidental riches of oil and with authoritarian governments that often generate little loyalty, along with its capacity for discouraging domestic investment in skills and knowledge, has made it particularly damaging. Other countries have been too ready to take temporarily easy options to preserve the status quo, to avoid the rigors of necessary change or to be seduced by ignorant siren voices of "international placemen and experts," who sing "songs of innocence and inexperience."
Landes's list of false prophets with misguided diagnoses is long. It includes dependency theorists; the new economic historians, who neglect older findings and dismiss any such thing as the Industrial Revolution; econometricians in pursuit of numbers, however unreal; multiculturalists irrelevantly quibbling over the terminology of European "discovery" of the rest of the world; ethnologists denying that there are grounds for criticizing or detecting weaknesses in another culture. By contrast, he admires the champion of the Protestant ethic Max Weber, and Karl Wittfogel, the outstanding student of what he calls "Oriental despotism." "If we learn anything from the history of economic development, it is that culture makes all the difference," Landes says. In the pursuit of wealth, failure or success are ultimately determined from within, not imposed from outside.
Thus many conventional explanations of Western success and the relative failures of the rest -- the conquest of the Americas, transmission of European diseases, slavery, the supposedly imprisoning effect of Western scholarship for Oriental societies -- have been far less significant than is widely claimed. This is neither to deny nor condone "the contempt, violence and sadistic brutality" of many encounters between the West and other societies. It is rather to argue, for example, that the historical diversity of "spectacular successes" in East Asia, "mixed results in Latin America" and "outright regression in . . . much of Africa" leads inexorably to the conclusion that "colonization in itself . . . does not dictate failure." Imperial rule was of course neither a modern nor a Western invention, nor intrinsically tied to capitalism. Colonialism delayed and distorted opportunities for development -- by introducing illegitimate and alien forms of government, manipulating tariffs or neglecting education -- but such consequences could be corrected. If they wish, even late-comers can cultivate the values that count: "work, thrift, honesty, patience, tenacity." How best to encourage that ability and self-confidence, how to nurture cultural transformation and self-empowerment, remains to be decided.
Few historians could have argued this case so powerfully. Over four decades, David Landes, a professor of history and economics at Harvard, has demonstrated mastery of many themes. As a historian of economic imperialism, he explored in "Bankers and Pashas" (1958) the rapacity of Europe's investors and the encounter with international finance of Egypt's developmentally minded rulers in the mid-19th century. Wearing his hat as a student of technological change, he produced "The Unbound Prometheus" (1969), an influential study of industrial development in Western Europe from 1750. More recently, his "Revolution in Time" (1983) revealed his acute sense of how cultural convention and social habit have variously combined with technological capacity to shape societies' economic and social development. Now these themes and a lifetime's reflection have been drawn together in a passionate and hard-hitting -- or, as some will feel, blunt, oversimplified and partisan -- study of the making of the modern world. It punctures much scholarly pretension and demonstrates the poverty of economics uninformed by historical understanding. Its erudition ranges from the Aztecs to modern Zaire (now Congo), from the limits of economic rationality to the technological consequences of chopsticks. Readers cannot but be provoked and stimulated by this splendidly iconoclastic and refreshing book.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: WEALTH AND POVERTY OF NATIONS, THE (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC5192 BOOKS, PERIODICALS, & NEWSPAPERS (91%); SIC2732 BOOK PRINTING (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (77%); GERMANY (50%); 

COMPANY: W W NORTON & CO INC (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED KINGDOM (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (77%); GERMANY (50%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); HISTORY (74%); MILLENNIUM (71%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (71%); LITERATURE (67%); 

PERSON: PORTER, ANDREW; LANDES, DAVID S DAVID S LANDES (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1998



339 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 6; Page 30; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 994 words

HEADLINE: Word & Image;
The Next Great Story

BYLINE: By Max Frankel 

 BODY:
I have been burrowing for a scoop far removed from Monica Lewinsky, for a discovery that might ignite entirely new curiosities and emotions. If jingo is an even greater passion than libido, I have found it, at least in dim outline: get ready for the collapse of nationhood.
The media are full of the evidence, though none have yet connected the dots of what will surely be the next century's Great Revolution. One propellant is technological: the capacity of computers to transfer information past all national barriers in nanoseconds and for nanocents. The Soviet empire could not survive the world's unmediated communication with its citizens. Now China is feeling the pressure; millions there are already reading the indigenous on-line anti-Communist magazine Tunnel.
Another propellant is financial. The world's uninhibited traffic in information has empowered investors to move vast sums of money from one country and currency to another. And that has the effect not only of erasing distances and borders but also of denying "sovereign" governments the power to command their own fates.
The permeability of financial frontiers has already produced a profound psychological shift. As George Shultz, William Simon and Walter Wriston -- a notably conservative trio of economic experts -- recently wrote in The Wall Street Journal: "The gold standard has been replaced by the information standard, an iron discipline that no government can evade. Foreign exchange rates are now set by tens of thousands of traders at computer terminals around the globe. Their judgments about monetary and economic policies are instantly translated in the cross rates of currencies. No country can hide."
The traders are disciplining countries they may have never seen, swiftly punishing mismanagement and corruption simply by shifting their money from weak to strong currencies. In recent months they not only forced Thailand and South Korea to adopt remedial austerity but also directly influenced the outcome of their elections.
National frontiers and governments can no more protect societies against economic storms than against meteorological dangers. The recent financial quakes in Asia shook banks and markets throughout the Pacific and threaten a tidal wave of consequences in the United States. Mismanagement, misjudgment and corruption in one place thus threaten standards of living everywhere and give all peoples an incentive to inspect and regulate the behavior of all others. That is why more and more societies are yielding the pretense of sovereignty to a variety of new international arrangements over which they will have to find new political authority.
Wearing the impersonal disguise of the International Monetary Fund, bankers and bureaucrats have learned to impose painful austerities even on proud dictators. Other "international civil servants" are laboring to create a new West European currency, the euro, which promises to generate powerful new political pressures on both sides of the Atlantic. The euro requires coordinating the interest rates of the participating 15 nations, and its survival will also soon require coordinating 15 different tax systems, wage patterns and welfare systems. And since the euro countries will not be content to let unaccountable bankers manage all this coordination, they will inevitably create economic and political institutions that operate outside the control of any single state.
And if the euro flies, our dollar will feel the effect. As Lester Thurow recently observed in The New York Review of Books, Europeans who possess a viable common currency will need fewer dollar reserves, while non-Europeans, like the Saudis, will shift some of their reserves from dollars to euros. The dollar will become much more vulnerable to depreciation, and even America's economy will come under foreign inspection. Bankers and traders everywhere will demand independent audits of the books and procedures of all societies, and they will agitate for standardized rules of bookkeeping and management.
In leaping across national boundaries, these auditors will be following the trails already blazed by the Trans-Atlantic Business Dialogue and World Trade Organization. As Jeff Gerth recently wrote in The Times, the "Dialogue" is an international forum in which unelected negotiators are rewriting the safety and environmental standards governing the sale of automobiles.
The same pressures for transnational action are rising in diplomacy. People living far from Bosnia, Croatia and Serbia are clamoring for the arrest, trial and punishment of those countries' "war criminals" even though there exist no duly legislated laws and police forces to conduct such a policy. And lacking a tax collector, the United Nations can ill afford the troops that operate in many regions under its global banner.
A similar and instructive condition prevailed in 18th-century America. After their rebellion against the British crown, the American colonies were so jealous of their hard-won sovereignty that they formed only the loosest political union. It had a merely advisory Continental Congress, like the U.N. General Assembly, and no real executive or judicial authority. George Washington was left in command of 13 allied armies enlisted, paid and grudgingly contributed by the individual states.
As the American economies floundered, Washington's home state of Virginia summoned a convention in Annapolis "to discuss the regulation of trade among the states," but only 5 of 13 colonies bothered to appear. In despair, these five signed an appeal drafted by Alexander Hamilton of New York for "commissioners" of all states -- large and small, mercantile and agricultural, slave and free -- to assemble in Philadelphia in 1787. And there, finally, they devised a more perfect Union.
When will the world follow our example? As Washington observed, political evils "must be sorely felt before they can be removed."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); THAILAND (67%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); THAILAND (67%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; FINANCES; COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS CURRENCIES (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); EURO (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); EXCHANGE RATES (73%); POLITICS (71%); PSYCHOLOGY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); LIVING STANDARDS (69%); CORRUPTION (68%); METEOROLOGY (66%); ECONOMIC POLICY (65%); INTEREST RATES (64%); CIVIL SERVICES (64%); MONETARY POLICY (64%); 

PERSON: FRANKEL, MAX WILLIAM EDWARD 'WILLIAM E' SIMON (55%); GEORGE PRATT SHULTZ (55%); WALTER BIGELOW WRISTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1998



340 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 6; Page 42; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 6756 words

HEADLINE: Overkill Is Not Dead

BYLINE: By Brian Hall; Brian Hall is the author of five books, including "The Impossible Country: A Journey Through the Last Days of Yugoslavia." He last wrote for the magazine on Boutros Boutros-Ghali. Paul Shambroom has photographed nuclear weapons over the years as part of a series on "hidden places of power" in the United States.

 BODY:
The B-61-11, the latest addition to America's nuclear arsenal, is known as an earth penetrator. The new nose and steel casings add weight and strength, and the fuse has been changed to delay detonation until seconds after impact. The result is a bomb that burrows several feet before exploding, enabling it to obliterate targets like command bunkers and chemical-weapons factories several hundred feet beneath the surface. All in all, it represents a significant leap in bomb design, and that's precisely the problem. Pentagon officials deny that the B-61-11 is a new weapon.
This is because the "physics package" -- the primary fission reaction and the secondary fusion reaction that power the explosion -- is the same as in the B-61-7 (which offers "dial a yield," literally a dial on the casing that adjusts the payload from 10 kilotons up to 340 kilotons, a kiloton being equal to 1,000 tons of TNT). But if you define a weapon by its military application, this one is new; the Pentagon did not previously have an earth penetrator. 
 The interesting question is what targets military planners have in mind for the B-61-11. The decision to develop it dates to 1995, five years after the proclaimed end of the cold war. Start 1, the initial strategic arms reduction treaty, was in force, committing the United States and Russia to cut their strategic arsenals deeply. Start 2 had been signed, calling for even more cuts, and awaited ratification. Russia had repudiated Communism and become a democracy, its conventional forces had withered and eastern Europe was free. Both sides had celebrated the move away from the nuclear brink, and a relieved public had stopped worrying about a nuclear holocaust. So what was the purpose of the B-61-11? Surely not to find a better way to jellify Boris Yeltsin in his underground command post.
Is the cold war really over? Has the arms race ended? Has United States policy on strategic weapons caught up with Ronald Reagan's soothing proclamation that "a nuclear war cannot be won and must never be fought"? Consider:
* In the recent Iraq crisis, the Clinton Administration once again refused to rule out the use of nuclear weapons, thereby inflaming relations with Moscow and undermining its own leadership on nuclear proliferation.
* While President Clinton has repeatedly touted the "de-targeting" of American and Russian missiles, retargeting would take only seconds. In fact, retargeting doesn't add a single second to the launch -- it is standard procedure to send target instructions to the missiles before they lift off. The United States and Russia can still fire off thousands of nuclear warheads within a few minutes of your reading this sentence.
* The Administration plans to spend $4.5 billion a year -- more than the average annual cost, in constant dollars, for building up the arsenal during the cold war -- on the Stockpile Stewardship and Management Program, which is a virtual nuclear testing regime. With items like the $1.2 billion Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory's ignition facility, the program will enable the Department of Energy, in its own words, to pursue "structural enhancements" to nuclear weapons if needed because of "changes in military requirements." (But not, of course, to develop "new weapons.")
* Under Start 1, the number of "deployed" strategic warheads (weapons mounted on long-range missiles and carried in heavy bombers) is coming down to 7,000 to 8,000, but the Pentagon still reserves another 3,000 to 5,000 weapons as a "hedge" against future hostile relations with Russia. Even under Start 2, which mandates a ceiling of 3,500 deployed strategic weapons, the military intends to retain thousands more.
* The entire treaty process is paralyzed, with Start 2 mired in the Russian Duma and little headway being made on the financial and diplomatic issues that have bogged it down.
* The Pentagon is moving ahead with research on missile defenses that experts agree will be indistinguishable in capabilities from strategic missile defenses, technically in violation of the Antiballistic Missile Treaty. It is permitted to do this because in Helsinki in 1997, the White House persuaded the Russians to allow each side to decide for itself whether it was violating the treaty in this instance. The Russians, out of weakness, went along.
* Computers are being upgraded to allow faster retargeting that, with improved satellites, will allow more accurate and rapid strikes against Russian rail-mobile and road-mobile intercontinental ballistic missiles (ICBM's).
* The Pentagon continues to manufacture D-5 missiles to replace the less accurate C-4 missiles in Trident II ballistic missile submarines, producing a better "hard target kill" capability against Russian missile silos.
* With the MX missile slated for retirement under Start 2, its warheads will be transferred to Minuteman III missiles, upping the yield of many of them from 170 kilotons to 300 kilotons. (By comparison, the Hiroshima bomb was about 13 kilotons.)
* This year, we are spending $25 billion just to maintain and operate our nuclear forces, according to Stephen Schwartz, who tracks nuclear weapons costs at the Brookings Institution.
 So why did the Pentagon decide to develop the B-61-11?
The reasoning goes back to Ronald Reagan's 1981 National Security Decision Directive 13, which called for the United States to develop and maintain the capacity to prevail in a protracted nuclear war with the Soviet Union.
Part of that guidance required the United States to hold the political and military leadership of the Soviet Union at risk. But new intelligence in the 1980's suggested that the Soviets had built extensive wartime command posts deep underground. So in 1987, the Reagan Administration halted the retirement of the largest warhead in the U.S. inventory, the nine-megaton B-53 -- originally developed as a "city buster" and nicknamed Crowdpleaser -- and gave it the new mission of digging out these underground command posts.
This was a hugely messy approach, even by the inelegant standards of nuclear weapons. So in 1993, the military began to look for an earth-penetrating alternative. By this time, of course, the cold war was "over," but the 1981 guidance still had not been changed. Moreover, in 1994 the Clinton Administration conducted a Nuclear Posture Review that began with hopeful talk about innovative thinking and ended with the timid conclusion that America still needed the traditional nuclear triad to deter a Russian attack -- land-based ICBM's, submarine-launched missiles and bombers. It concluded as well that America needed to maintain a reserve of warheads numbering in the thousands. As a matter of policy, therefore, Washington still felt that it needed to hold Yeltsin and company "at risk" down in that bunker, and in 1995, development of the B-61-11 was approved by the Administration and Congress. In January 1997, it entered the service.
Meanwhile, the 1981 guidance still had not been changed, meaning that the entire nuclear force was still trained on targets in Russia. (Additional plans existed to program strikes within an hour or so against China as well as selected nations thought to possess chemical and biological weapons.) We don't often think about what this targeting means, in concrete terms; in years past we couldn't, because the information was top secret. But with the easing of East-West tensions, some of the story is beginning to emerge.
 
A Pentagon Blueprint for Nuclear War
At any given time, the United States has on alert more than 2,300 warheads, delivering a combined explosive power of about 550 megatons (550 million tons of TNT) -- the equivalent, to use a popular measure, of 44,000 Hiroshimas. This is the "overkill" that has been an element of the popular myth about nuclear weapons for decades. But to measure "overkill" by Hiroshima misses the point of what the U.S. military perceives as the weapons' purpose.
The military has always devoted itself to "counterforce" nuclear targeting -- aiming for the other side's weapons and military apparatus rather than its cities. This is not for moral reasons but because the Pentagon considers it wasteful to expend munitions on things that don't fire back. The popular idea that nuclear weapons exist only to insure that they never be used is not a military idea. The blueprint for nuclear operations against Russia is the Single Integrated Operational Plan, or SIOP. Very few people, perhaps a few dozen at a time in the military and the White House, have a detailed and comprehensive knowledge of the plan. Furthermore, few Presidents have taken the trouble to enter this circle, since there are more pressing claims on their attention.
The secrecy, coupled with the extreme complexity of choreographing the destruction of concrete-fortified, buried, hidden or mobile forces by missiles and bombers, has resulted in virtually no one having a workable grasp of the war plans except the targeters themselves. "If you look at the list," said the head of Strategic Command, Gen. Eugene Habiger, about an open letter published in December 1996 by 62 generals and admirals from around the world calling for deeper cuts in strategic forces and a commitment to the eventual abolition of nuclear weapons, "there are only one or two or maybe half a dozen who really understand what's going on."
But one of them is Gen. George Lee Butler, who as a former head of Strategic Command understands very well what's going on. Butler already had doubts about the operational feasibility of the nuclear war plan when he took over what was then Strategic Air Command in early 1991. (SAC was replaced by Strategic Command, or Stratcom, in 1992, when the Air Force and Navy nuclear arsenals were finally brought under a single command.) In his first months at SAC, Butler undertook a painstaking review of the million lines of computer code that constitute the SIOP. For the first time, he saw in detail what happens when broad Presidential guidance is translated into actual weapons aimed at actual targets, what he calls "climbing down the ladder of abstraction." He was appalled at what he found at the bottom rung.
For example, of the 12,500 targets in the SIOP at that time, one was slated to be hit by 69 consecutive nuclear weapons. This, it turns out, was a result of planners following the process to its logical conclusion. At the level of a Presidential directive, a document of a thousand words or so, you begin with a reasonable-sounding requirement: to hold the political and military leadership "at risk." That guidance goes to the Office of the Secretary of Defense, which in a 15- or 20-page policy document on nuclear weapons employment adds some detail, like the criteria for choosing the kinds of leadership facilities that should be targeted. The document then goes to the Strategic Plans and Policy Directorate of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, which in a 60-page volume lists specific types of facilities to be struck and damage requirements to be met. The volume then goes to Stratcom, where the types of facilities to be destroyed are matched against a database of potential targets, yielding a list of the actual targets and the number of weapons needed to take them out.
Butler won't say which target those 69 weapons were aimed at. According to Bruce Blair, a former Minuteman launch officer and an expert on the operational aspects of nuclear war fighting who is now at Brookings, a reasonable guess would be one of the deeply buried command complexes. The target, he says, was probably Chekhov, the Russian general staff's main command post, about 40 miles south of Moscow.
Let's assume that the war plan called for a 90 to 95 percent confidence in the destruction of this command post, which is a typical figure for that class of target. Blair dug into his notes for a statement by a high official at SAC in the mid-1980's that the highest kill probability for the United States' best weapon against deeply buried, sprawling, hardened command posts was less than 5 percent. He got out a calculator, assumed a kill probability of 4 percent for one weapon and started multiplying. To attain a 50 percent confidence in destroying the target required 17 weapons. When Blair got up to 69 weapons, the "kill probability" had reached 94 percent.
As you can see, then, it is all perfectly rational. And perfectly plannable, too, since what is a mere 69 nuclear weapons out of 12,000?
Consider, as well, how petty the targets can get when you're looking to dispatch thousands of weapons. I asked General Butler about this, and he said: "Take communications sites, for example. The most likely way to cripple a communications site is to strike its antenna. Now what is an antenna? It's an ungainly spire of structural steel. If this wasn't a nuclear war, you would send an airplane with a couple of 500-pound bombs, or even send in a Special Forces team to topple the thing with dynamite. What do you do when you're a nuclear war planner? You target a nuclear weapon against it. A nuclear weapon measured in the, what, half-megaton range? Whatever it takes!
"Part of understanding the grotesque excesses of the nuclear age is to appreciate that what might have been a seemingly reasonable war plan in the Second World War -- a thousand or more bombers delivering thousands of 500-pound bombs -- in the nuclear era you had much the same thing, only the weapons were nuclear. And they were going to targets that, taken out of this apocalyptic context, you would say: 'You're going to strike a radio antenna with a half-megaton bomb? What are you thinking about?' "
But that was the old SIOP. During Butler's tenure the number of targets was reduced from 12,500 to about 3,000. And five years have passed since that effort, during which, presumably, targeting changes have continued. Nevertheless, little comfort can be derived from the reduction in targets to the 3,000 range. Many of those targets were in eastern Europe or were units of the Red Army, which has largely dissolved, or were industrial plants that have stopped producing anything of value. What has almost certainly been retained is as complete a strike as we can marshal against the single aspect of Russia's military power that we still fear -- its nuclear forces. As the independent nuclear expert and author William M. Arkin puts it, "In essence, Stratcom has been able to manipulate -- they would say 'guide' -- reductions to retain the core, which is the ability to take out all strategic Russian forces and command and control, i.e., a first strike." In other words, those radio antennae are still in the nuclear cross hairs.
The effects on the Russian people of a counterforce strike, while inevitably horrible, are hard to predict precisely because we don't know what is in the current SIOP, which is highly classified. But Butler tells a story that suggests that debate on the subject is academic. "One of the exercises I asked my staff to go through was to remove all the weapons directly targeted on Moscow and just calculate radiation levels in the city by looking at the strikes upwind of the city in various climatological scenarios. The result was exactly as I would have predicted: the city was rendered uninhabitable for generations."
This is why critics of the Start process point out that even if Start 2 is ratified by the Russian Duma (where it is currently languishing), and even if Start 3 is negotiated and ratified, and implementation goes according to schedule, then in January 2008, after another decade of peaceful and reasonable cooperation, the Pentagon will still have 2,000 to 2,500 warheads aimed at Russia. That these would be delivered in a "counterforce" posture means, at best, slow radiological slaughter of millions rather than fast, blast-pressure, thermal slaughter of millions. Our "glide path," as the Clinton Administration likes to call it -- actually a good metaphor, since it implies no impetus from the Government -- is a "reduction" in nuclear forces that masks stasis.
Last year, the Clinton administration finally moved to update the 1981 Reagan directive, but only in response to complaints from Stratcom that the old guidance could not be carried out under the ceiling of 2,000 to 2,500 weapons proposed for Start 3. And a Presidential Decision Directive issued in November only reaffirms Reagan's guidance from the depths of the cold war, with one notable exception. According to Arkin, it stipulates that although we still must plan for fighting a protracted nuclear war, we no longer have to be sure of winning it. In other words, the White House replaced a delusional cold war guidance with a merely impractical one.
The guidance also reaffirms the longstanding policy of reserving the option in some scenarios of using nuclear weapons as deterrents against other weapons of mass destruction (W.M.D.'s), like chemical and biological weapons. Since the early 1990's, the Pentagon has had plans for targeting Libya, Iran and North Korea and other countries suspected of developing or possessing W.M.D.'s.
In April 1996, Harold Smith, an assistant to the Secretary of Defense for atomic energy, spoke to a group of defense reporters about a buried Libyan chemical weapons factory under construction 40 miles southeast of Tripoli. He said that by the end of the year, the United States would have a nuclear weapon (presumably, the B-61-11) that would be capable of destroying the plant.
Good news -- except that the United States has declared since 1978 that it would not use or threaten to use nuclear weapons against a non-nuclear state that was a member in good standing of the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty, and Libya is such a member. When this contradiction was pointed out, William Perry, then Secretary of Defense, failed to clearly uphold the policy, saying, "We could have a devastating response without the use of nuclear weapons, but we would not forswear that possibility."
Last month, the United States Embassy in Moscow used the same formulation to counter (and yet not counter) angry speculation in the Russian Duma that Washington was considering using nuclear weapons against Iraq: "We are able to mount a devastating response without using nuclear weapons. Nevertheless, we do not rule out in advance any capability available to us." It so happens that Iraq is not a member in good standing of the Nonproliferation Treaty, but the implications for the treaty are the same because it is primarily Hussein's chemical and biological weapons, not his stalled nuclear capability, that the United States is after. Therefore the Administration has repeatedly undermined our key promise to signers of the Nonproliferation Treaty, while conceding it has no military reason to do so. The implication -- presumably, a deliberate one -- is that the United States does not accept as a matter of principle any restrictions on its nuclear posture.
 
Edging Back to the Brink
In 1980, a computer-chip failure at Norad -- the United States command post in Colorado for assessing nuclear attacks -- generated a false alarm of an all-out Soviet missile attack. The officer in charge, who fretted for eight minutes about whether the attack was real, was subsequently fired. Regulations called for him to decide in three minutes. As recently as 1995, an American research rocket sent up off the coast of Norway to study the aurora borealis so alarmed the Russians that for the first time in their history, they activated the nuclear suitcase that accompanies the president. They were a couple of minutes from a decision on whether to launch before they determined that the rocket was not headed toward Russia.
It is widely assumed that the threat of a nuclear holocaust has subsided along with the relaxation of cold-war tensions and the absence of any conceivable reason to use nuclear weapons. In fact, the end of the cold war and the attendant collapse of the Russian military have produced a situation in which the chances of a nuclear exchange have arguably never been higher.
As long as there are nuclear weapons mounted on delivery vehicles and aimed at targets, there is always the chance that they will be used, inadvertently or otherwise. A task force in the Pentagon is looking at various de-alerting options that, by significantly increasing the time needed to prepare a missile for launching, would accomplish what Clinton's "de-targeting" only pretends to. But the armed forces and the Administration are apparently in no hurry. "I don't buy, if you will, the picture that we are on a 'dangerous hair-trigger' today," says one Administration security official, who spoke on condition of anonymity. General Habiger also spoke reassuringly about the state of the Russian nuclear forces when he returned from a trip there in November.
Think about the incongruity: General Habiger can visit Russia and be shown "a great deal about specifically their strategic rocket forces, from their command and control to allowing me to be the first, as I understand it, non-Russian to ever go into a nuclear weapons storage area and to see how they keep their nuclear weapons secure and safe." And Russia's head of Strategic Rocket Forces has previously visited Stratcom. Yet we don't have something as simple and inexpensive as a direct link between Norad and its counterpart outside Moscow, so that when the research rockets take off and the 15-minute countdowns begin there would be less chance for confusion. Sam Nunn, the former Senator, suggested such a link back in the 1980's, and Bruce Blair of Brookings has talked it up for years. Blair finds no particular objection to it in the Administration. It has simply been, he says, "crowded off the plate by other issues."
Meanwhile, the Central Intelligence Agency disagrees with Habiger's assessment that the Russian Strategic Rocket Forces are safe. A recurrent computer malfunction in the Russian system has lately been switching part of the force to combat mode automatically. Two-thirds of their early-warning radar installations no longer work, and they are missing two satellites, leaving holes in their warning system.
"I worry a great deal about the erosion of Russia's defense satellites," says Sam Nunn, former chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee and hardly an alarmist. "This is a serious national security problem." Nunn says that, back in the late 1970's and early 1980's, he had SAC assess "our ability and the Soviets' ability to detect the origin of a missile attack. That report is classified, but I can say this: the United States' ability wasn't at a desirable level, and Russia's was a lot worse. Since then we've gotten better and the Russians have gotten still worse."
 
Growing Instability
Accidental launch is only the most obvious danger posed by existing nuclear arsenals. Americans tend to think of nuclear weapons as an insurance policy, admittedly expensive but necessary in an uncertain world of Saddam Husseins and dangerous Russian nationalists. But that ignores the basic fact that nuclear weapons are highly political, and that perceptions of vulnerability on either side of the nuclear equation inevitably breed instability. Here again, the paralysis in nuclear policy is creating an increasingly dangerous situation.
William Arkin puts it starkly. "We actually have a greater capacity to destroy Russian nuclear forces than we did 10 years ago." Bruce Blair agrees: "The situation is more unstable than it has been, ever since the early 60's. The Russians are very vulnerable." The impoverished Russians cannot afford to keep more than one or two of their missile submarines at sea at any one time, and all of their rail-mobile ICBM's are in garrison, as are all but one or two regiments of their road-mobile ICBM's. Their bomber force appears to have degraded almost to insignificance. Thus, while the United States at all times has about 1,600 nuclear warheads at sea, where they are invulnerable (because submarines cannot be located), the Russians have only 200 to 300 warheads that are similarly protected.
Now, it may seem obvious that having 200 or 100 or even 50 invulnerable weapons should be a sufficient deterrent. If we nuked them, they could still bomb our 50 largest cities. But that's not the way deterrence theory works. Recall the "window of vulnerability," a central theme of Ronald Reagan's 1980 Presidential campaign and a central rationale behind the subsequent defense buildup. The Pentagon feared that the Soviets had acquired enough accurate, multiple-warhead missiles to destroy America's entire land-based ICBM force with only a portion of their strategic forces. In that event, the remaining U.S. forces would lack the firepower to wipe out Soviet nuclear forces, and thus our only recourse would be to retaliate against Soviet cities. But that would spur a retaliation against our own cities, resulting in scores of millions of American deaths. Thus, Washington's threat of retaliation would lack credibility, and the Soviet Union could dictate terms to its effectively disarmed foe.
To return to the present, the point is not what America's intentions are, but what some Russians believe them to be. And if there were a new period of political tension with Russia, the Russians' fears would very much be America's fears, too, because in this mirror-image game of use 'em or lose 'em (land-based forces must be launched before they are destroyed by opposing missiles with 15- or 30-minute flight times), the weaker a partner gets, the more dangerous it is. Furthermore, it is a downward spiral: realization of Russia's desperation and the increased chance of its acting irrationally could create incentives for America to launch first. An operational posture enforces its own logic.
 
Why Start Is Stuck
No one in the Clinton Administration argues that it is desirable to be poised on the brink of nuclear holocaust with a nonadversary. Officials contend that the tortuous Start process is the best path away from the brink because treaties "lock in" agreements and establish verification regimes to make both reversion and cheating more difficult. However, it is relevant to consider why the Start 2 treaty, ratified by the U.S. Senate in January 1996, still hasn't been ratified by the Russian Duma.
During the Start 2 negotiations in 1992, Boris Yeltsin proposed a ceiling on deployed strategic weapons of 2,000 on each side. Remarkably, the United States rejected that figure, insisting on 3,500. Gen. Colin Powell, who was Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff at the time, says, "We wanted 3,500 because, targeting-wise, it was what we felt we needed." However, he goes on, "I don't think it did any damage to our modernizing programs, either. That was not the major factor, but still, you spend a lot of money on a new program. . . ." He left the sentence unfinished, but in 1992 the Navy was in the middle of refitting Trident submarines with more accurate D-5 missiles and higher-yield warheads. This was to increase our ability to "kill" Russian missile silos.
General Butler insists, contra Powell, that we did not need 3,500 weapons for targeting purposes but, like Powell, he stresses the importance of bureaucratic and economic reasons. "When you go to those levels," he says of the 2,000 figure, "you start trading off systems. That always triggers interservice rivalry. We're talking tens of billions of dollars. You're talking about the future, the pride, the standing of the ballistic missile submarine force."
Washington's insistence on a higher ceiling quickly became a stumbling block. Start 2 centers on the banning of land-based missiles with more than one warhead, the so-called MIRV's (for multiple independently targetable re-entry vehicle). Because of the high number of Russian MIRV-ed missiles, if they wanted to de-MIRV and still have 3,500 deployed warheads, they would have to build hundreds of new single-warhead missiles, which they can't afford. Meanwhile, their whole force is aging, and officials on both sides agree that the Russian force will degrade to a level of 2,000 to 2,500 warheads within the next 10 years purely through attrition.
Officials in the Clinton Administration and at Stratcom contend that no one could have foreseen in 1992 that the Russian economy would deteriorate so fast, but that leaves unaddressed the question of why Yeltsin offered 2,000 in the first place. In Helsinki last March, Clinton and Yeltsin agreed to push back the date at which Start 2 was to take effect, thereby easing the financial problems for Russia by lowering the annual costs. Thus, having first slowed down the process by insisting on a ceiling of 3,500, we have fixed the ensuing problems by slowing down the process some more.
 
A 'Fatal Miscalculation'
But when it comes to souring the United States-Russian strategic relationship, the details of Start 2 are nothing compared with NATO expansion, a centerpiece of Clinton's foreign policy that was approved recently by the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. Besides sending a hostile message to Moscow, the expansion of a nuclear-capable NATO means moving the nuclear threat, at least theoretically, closer to Russian borders. In a recent New York Times Op-Ed column warning against NATO expansion, Howard Baker Jr., Sam Nunn, Brent Scowcroft and Alton Frye drew the right historic parallel: Germany after World War I. "The central failure of Versailles," they wrote, "lay in the fatal miscalculation of how to deal with a demoralized former adversary. That, above all, is the error we must not repeat."
Franklin C. Miller, Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Strategy and Threat Reduction, says that it's "counterintuitive" for the Duma to stall on Start 2 because of the expansion of NATO. "If the United States could stay at Start 1 levels indefinitely, and the Russians can't afford to stay even at Start 2 levels, the last thing you want to do, if you believe NATO expansion is a threat, is allow an imbalance to grow in the strategic arsenals of the two sides. You want to ratify Start 2 and lock the United States in." But then he goes on to concede, "O.K., politics is politics."
Exactly. Russia is now a democracy, with the same sorts of power struggles that America has, in which logic sometimes matters less than perceptions. Imagine the reverse: Russia expanding a military alliance toward our borders while the Senate debates an arms treaty that can easily be made to look unfair to the United States, its imbalances to be redressed in a future treaty that Russia promises but refuses to formally negotiate. White House officials may be right when they say Yeltsin could win ratification of Start 2 if he fought hard enough. But like any president he has to choose his battles. Why is the United States making it so difficult for him?
In September, Yeltsin, on the day of a meeting with his defense minister, Igor Sergeyev, said that Russian security could be insured "even with 1,000 warheads, not to mention the 2,000 to 2,500 which are mentioned in the proposed Start 3 treaty." Stansfield Turner, the former C.I.A. director who has recently published a book advocating unilateral cuts in the American arsenal, asked in wonderment, "Why isn't Clinton saying: 'Yes! Let's get there!' " Subsequently, on a visit to Stockholm in December, the Russian President announced a unilateral one-third cut in the Russian strategic nuclear forces. Washington responded with a yawn. "We don't take what he says all that seriously," a senior American diplomatic official told The New York Times after the Stockholm comment (which was later retracted).
The Clinton Administration continues to insist that it will commit to nothing further in the realm of nuclear policy until the Duma ratifies Start 2. Officials call this "keeping pressure" on the Russians, or "holding their feet to the fire." Whenever you ask if the strategy is working, they express optimism. "I think we've turned a corner," Robert Bell of the National Security Council told me in October.
Start 2 was sent to the Duma on June 20, 1995.
It is now conventional wisdom that President Bush's 1991 letter to Saddam Hussein, hinting at U.S. willingness to retaliate with nuclear weapons, is what kept the Iraqis from using biological or chemical weapons in the gulf war. (It is rarely recalled that the letter warned in the same terms against igniting the Kuwaiti oil fields, but Hussein did it anyway.) Our nuclear threat, as many have argued, is empty, even fatuous. We now have many more bombs smarter than the ones we used in the gulf war. We have bombs guided by Global Positioning System satellites that can land within 30 feet of their targets when fired from 10 miles away. We have bombs that count floors as they crash down through a building, and detonate on the floor we want them to. With that kind of precision, we simply have no military need for nuclear weapons.
If the United States actually did use a nuclear weapon against Iraq, it would destroy its nonproliferation efforts, make Saddam Hussein a martyr and make itself an international pariah. Furthermore, the target is inconceivable. Baghdad? Out of the question. A chemical weapons site? All right, but which one? Or would America nuke each of the 60 suspected sites?
Defenders of "calculated ambiguity," as these coded threats are often called, shrug off such argumentation, however convincing. In the last analysis, they say, no matter how ridiculous your threat, your opponent cannot be 100 percent sure that you aren't nuts enough to carry it out, and that tiny, unreasonable doubt encourages a salutary caution. This is called "existential deterrence," and of the various deterrences, it seems to me the most plausible. If there is any utility to nuclear weapons, it resides here.
But remember, we are in a hall of mirrors. Is it in our interest to be broadcasting this utility, which after all is a much better argument for a conventionally weak nation than a conventionally powerful one? Why shouldn't Iran, which has been a victim of Iraqi gas attacks, argue the same?
It is often countered that the behavior of the United States has no effect on would-be proliferators. In the words of Franklin Miller, "Any proliferant is going to develop nuclear weapons based on their own desires to either dominate their region or respond to their neighbor's development program." That may be true, but to contain those countries we need the support of France, Germany, England, Russia and China -- and they will be swayed by the perception that we are or are not serious about reducing our own reliance on nuclear weapons.
 
Easing the Paralysis
As the only conventional superpower in the world -- with a military research-and-development budget that, at $38 billion, is nearly twice as large as that of all other nations of the world combined -- the United States is in the unprecedented position of having no vital threats from any quarter, other than the use of nuclear, biological or chemical weapons. At the same time, as the only conventional superpower in the world, America has no practical use for its nuclear weapons, because they will always be weapons of last resort. The United States, more than any other nation, has an interest in reducing the numbers of nuclear weapons in the world and marginalizing those that remain by devaluing their importance.
The Iraq crisis pointed up a contradiction. When President Clinton responded to Kremlin objections to the use of force against Baghdad by saying things like, "'Nyet' is not 'no' for the United States," he was openly discounting the importance of Russian opinion. Well, which is it? Are the Russians so weak that we no longer heed their foreign policy desires? Or are they so threatening that we have to keep thousands of warheads trained on them to preserve our security? In fact, they are both weak and strong, and this is an explosive combination. Our blindness to the consequences of shaking this particular vial is appalling.
The current perverse paralysis is not inevitable. Vice President Al Gore and Russia's Prime Minister, Viktor S. Chernomyrdin, were scheduled to meet last week to discuss nuclear matters, with the hope of resolving enough issues to prepare the way for a summit meeting in the summer. That is promising but, by itself, insufficient. The United States needs to take a more proactive role in nuclear policy. There are several practical steps Washington can take immediately:
* Place a high and public priority on exploring de-alerting options. But more than this, America can act unilaterally. Bruce Blair, who has studied de-alerting for years, has proposed that Washington unilaterally remove the warheads from its MX missiles and pin open the safety switches of the Minuteman III's, a procedure that would take a couple of hours to reverse for each missile. If the Russians reciprocated, we could go further. Ideally, Blair and Sam Nunn envision an arrangement in which warheads would be removed from all land-based missiles and stored in the vacant silos of missiles that had been cut from the force. They further recommend that the silos be partly filled with concrete to insure that they could not quickly be made operational. In this posture, both the warheads and the missiles would be secure in hardened silos, so it would take two attacking warheads to "kill" one missile-warhead pair (this is stabilizing, since the attacker would be disarming faster than the victim), and it would be easy to verify compliance, since remating warheads and missiles would be highly visible.
The Administration and Stratcom like the idea but argue that the Russians have no secure storage for their warheads, and thus if we're worried about "loose nukes," the safest place for them is on the missiles. But if that is the only problem, it could be solved by financing Russian construction of the secure storage they need, an expense that Blair's most generous estimate pegs at less than $1 billion. Since 1991, Washington has spent more than $3 billion through Cooperative Threat Reduction and associated programs to help Russia secure its fissile materials and reserve warheads; the Congressional Budget Office puts the cost of maintaining U.S. forces at Start 1 levels pending Duma ratification of Start 2 at $12.5 billion through 2010, or roughly a billion per year.
* Immediately and unequivocally declare that the United States would not use nuclear weapons except in response to a nuclear attack, and push for a global treaty of No First Use.
* Try something to move the Start process forward. Stansfield Turner proposes a provisional, unilateral "cut" in strategic forces -- in fact, a de-alerting arrangement -- of 1,000 warheads (which even Stratcom concedes are unnecessary). Robert Bell of the N.S.C. counters that unilateral moves are undesirable because they are reversible, but that is exactly the point of Turner's idea. Instead of arguing endlessly about what the Russians would or would not do in response to such a bold move on our part, the United States could simply try it. If they didn't respond, we could put the warheads (which we don't need) back on alert.
* Propose formal negotiations on Start 3. (We negotiated Start 2 before Start 1 went into effect.) For that matter, the White House could propose immediate negotiations toward deeper reductions irrespective of Start 2 ratification. This was one of the proposals in a recent statement issued by 128 world leaders, including Mikhail Gorbachev, Jimmy Carter and Paul H. Nitze. We could take Yeltsin seriously and propose a ceiling of 1,000 warheads.
* Change the Presidential guidance, so that it contains no references to the deterrence of biological and chemical weapons and lowers the requirements of counterforce targeting, to diminish the first-strike threat to the Russians.
Presidential power in the area of national security, as opposed to that of domestic issues, is huge. President Clinton, like Ronald Reagan with his bolt-from-the-blue Star Wars speech of 1983, could change the terms of the debate tomorrow. Lamentably, he gives no indication that he will. The Administration projects an image of a superpower of elephantine helplessness. Not a giant, tied down by little nations, but a knight fallen from his horse, pinned to the ground by his own oversize armor.

GRAPHIC: Photos: High Maintenance- B-83 bombs, each with one-megaton yield (equal to about a million tons of TNT), at Barksdale Air Force Base, Shreveport, La., 1995. This year the U.S will spend $25 billion to maintain and operate its nuclear arsenal; Decommissioned, but Only Temporarily- A Trident submarine in dry dock in Wash ington in 1992. Refitting of the Tridents with more accurate, more powerful missiles continued even after negotiations for the Start 2 treaty had begun; Preparing for the Unthinkable- Second Lieut. Aaron R. Greaver and First Lieut. John T. Jose at a launch-control center for Minuteman III nuclear missiles in Grover, Colo; Not Ready for Mothballs- A transport vehicle near Peetz, Colo., for the Minuteman III. Minuteman missiles are still being upgraded and aimed at Russian targets; Pomp and Circumstance- A ceremony commemorating delivery of the first B-2 Stealth long-range bomber at Whiteman Air Force Base, Knob Noster, Mo., in 1993. (Photographs by Paul Shambroom)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); EUROPE (79%); IRAQ (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (54%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (74%); SHREVEPORT, LA, USA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); EUROPE (79%); IRAQ (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (54%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (74%); SHREVEPORT, LA, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC WEAPONS; ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS NUCLEAR WEAPONS (92%); MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (89%); COLD WAR (89%); ARMS RACE (78%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (78%); EXPLOSIVES (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (64%); 

PERSON: HALL, BRIAN BILL CLINTON (74%); RONALD REAGAN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1998



341 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 6; Page 24; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 940 words

HEADLINE: On Language;
Paddling Your Own Canoodle

BYLINE: By William Safire 

 BODY:
Senate judiciary chairman orrin Hatch told The New York Times that if allegations concerning the President and the former White House intern Monica Lewinsky prove to be true, "we have perhaps the first Presidential canoodler in history."
The Utah Senator is a devotee of American slang; his 1996 use of hissy fit, meaning "temper tantrum," stimulated the speculation in this space that the etymon was hysteria. 
 Whence canoodle? Slanguists J.S. Farmer and William Ernest Henley in their 1890 dictionary defined the term as "to fondle; bill and coo; indulge in endearments," its synonym firkytoodle, a verb that seems to have slipped into desuetude. Their earliest citation was from an 1859 book by the English journalist George Augustus Sala: "A sly kiss, and a squeeze. . .known to our American cousins (who are great adepts at sweet-hearting) under the generic name of canoodling."
The derivation is in furious dispute. One school is influenced by H.L. Mencken's assertion that the word was an extravagant invention created by Americans in the Missouri-Mississippi basin, home of many German immigrants. The etymologist W.E. Umbach found the German verb knudeln, "to cuddle," which has a second, fondling-related sense of "to pat, knead," as in the making of dumplings called Knoedel. Samuel Jones of the University of Wisconsin informs me that the German schmusen, also meaning "to hold close," is defined in the 1980 Collins German Dictionary as "to canoodle."
The knudeln theory (with the k pronounced as ca) is knocked (with the k silent) by the school that argues that the word is not an Americanism at all. Drawing on the 1945 research of B.J. Whiting, James Rader of Merriam-Webster says that "Merriam files have nothing to suggest it is an Americanism. The British Notes and Queries for Sept. 3, 1927, recorded it as 'Nottingham dialect for "to cuddle."' Australia's New South Wales Bulletin in 1928 wrote, 'This fuss over the possibility of the Alsatian dog canoodling with his lady dingoes annoys me."'
Merriam-Webster bases its judgment on an entry in Wright's English Dialect Dictionary that treats canoodle as a Somerset noun meaning "donkey.. . . Used also figuratively of one who makes love foolishly or 'spoonies."'
Which side to believe? Is the origin in the squeezable German dumpling or the fumbling caresses of a lovesick English lass? Fair-minded readers are urged to disregard leaks from self-serving etymologists and to reserve judgment on canoodle.
 
 SPECIAL FOR TONIGHT
William Schaefer, 76, former Governor of Maryland and a lifelong bachelor, faithfully visits Hilda Mae Snoops, 73, a divorced mother of three usually described as his "longtime companion," in her retirement home.
In a warm and sentimental Valentine's Day feature, The Washington Post's Karl Vick wrote of the lasting quality of the friendship that included the time they kept house together during his two terms in the Governor's Mansion. However, no one was quite certain how to refer to her.
"This is his girlfriend?" said Nelson Sabatini, Schaefer's friend and former Secretary of Health, running through the usual options for the reporter. "This is his close friend? His dear friend? You know, lady friend?" Then he decided on what he felt was the perfect word: "His special friend!"
Special is a Rashomon word, gleaming with different facets of meaning. Rooted in the Latin species, "a particular group," the most common sense is "out of the ordinary," one step shy of the solitary "unique." That was its meaning in The Economist recently: "All this points to a relationship between President and intern which was in some way, sexual or not, special."
But the special relationship is a phrase with its own historic connotation. Winston Churchill first referred to "our special relationship with the United States and Canada about the atomic bomb" in the House of Commons in 1945 and repeated special relationship in his 1946 "Iron Curtain" speech, meaning "the fraternal association of the English-speaking peoples."
During the 1980's, the adjective became a euphemism for "mentally or physically handicapped": special children were dealt with in special ed classes. A related meaning was "difficult."
Then there was the use of special, again with relationship, to describe gay males living together, which in the 90's is also applied to two men living together who are not lovers. The word was used against gay political activists seeking what they called equal rights by opponents who charged they were seeking special rights -- using the adjective to imply more or superior rights.
This explosion of use, on top of the previous generation's television special and journalism's Special to the New York Times, caused a backlash. On "Saturday Night Live," the comedian Dana Carvey, as "the Church Lady," derided her targets in a nasal twang with "Isn't that special!"
"The use of special in this way," notes Jim Crotty, author of "How to Talk American," "is a hyperironic spoof of the way a Mr. Rogers-type might speak, or the way a kindergarten teacher might talk down to a 'young person.' The humor is in mocking the patronizing quality of another type of person's sincere use of the word special."
When too much use debases a word's currency, it becomes specially priced.
 
 LANG SYNE
"We've been languoring here in Washington," said TV's omnipresent attorney, William Ginsburg.
Languor, a noun only, is "a state of weariness or listlessness." To languish is "to pine away" or "be neglected."
You cannot languor away. On the other hand, through such mistakes we grow the English languish.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ON LANGUAGE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); AUSTRALIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (53%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (67%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (54%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (54%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); AUSTRALIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (53%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (67%); 

SUBJECT: ENGLISH LANGUAGE LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (74%); GOVERNORS (70%); WRITERS (69%); MAMMALS (68%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM ORRIN HATCH (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1998



342 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 19; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1125 words

HEADLINE: LONG ISLAND GUIDE

BYLINE: By BARBARA DELATINER

 BODY:

Free Choices
TODAY The Mineola Choral Society marks its 50th anniversary by sending out one of its ensembles, the County Seat Singers, to perform songs from the 1940's to the 1990's at 2 P.M. at the Bethpage Library on Powell Avenue (931-3907). 
 WEDNESDAY Nassau Community College in Garden City is the host of a conference on "A Politics of Caring: Confronting the Forces That Divide -- Race, Sex, Ethnicity and the Economy." The daylong program, in the College Center, features lectures by Michael Lerner, founding editor of Tikkun, at 11 A.M.; Cornel West, professor of religion and Afro-American studies at Harvard University, at 2 P.M., and Rosemary Bray, an author, at 3:30 P.M., and a panel discussion by the three participants at 12:30 P.M. (572-7185).
Matt Haimovitz, the young cellist, joins the Massapequa Philharmonic Orchestra, conducted by Adam Rosenbloom, in an all-Dvorak program at 8:30 P.M. at Berner Junior High School on Carmans Mill Road. The dress rehearsal Friday at 8 P.M. will also be open to the public (795-4071).

More Irish
Observances of St. Patrick's Day continue today as Jim Hawkins performs "Irish Songs, Stories and Instrumental Music" at 2:30 P.M. at the Baldwin Library (223-6228); Paddy Doyle's Boots, the traditional music trio, plays Irish tunes at 2:30 P.M. at the Freeport Library (379-3274); Kevin O'Rouke, the author of "Currier and Ives: The Irish and America" speaks about "Images of the Irish in Currier and Ives Prints" at 2 P.M. at the Rockville Centre Library (766-6257), and the Rogers Memorial Library in Southampton presents a program of Irish songs and poems at 3:30 P.M. (283-0774).
On Tuesday there is a "St. Patrick's Day Sing-Along" with the Gilleece Twins and Chris Benedict at 7 P.M. at Theater Three on Main Stret in Port Jefferson (928-9100), while on Wednesday Greg Ryan, an entertainer, and Jim Hawkins join forces with Eileen Ryan, a step dancer, in a concert of Irish music and dance at 8 P.M. at the Plainview-Old Bethpage Library in Plainview (938-0077).

Music in Southold
The Arts in Southold continues its series of chamber music concerts today at 3 P.M. at the Church of the Open Door on Main Bayview Road in Southold with a joint recital by Yuri Karigut, a pianist, in an all-Chopin program, and Philip Cutlip, baritone, who will sing Mozart and Ibert arias and Broadway tunes (734-7696).

Choral Concerts
The spring choral music season opens today as the Long Island Choral Society performs Handel's "Samson" at 4 P.M. at the Cathedral of the Incarnation on Cathedral Avenue in Garden City (679-2136). Come Saturday and fans of the genre will have to choose between "A Tribute to Mozart" by the Long Island Concert Choral and the St. Rose of Lima Choir at 8 P.M. at St. Rose of Lima Roman Catholic Church on Merrick Road in Massapequa and Haydn's "Lord Nelson Mass" and other works by Beethoven, Bruckner and Mozart from the Babylon Chorale at 8 P.M. at St. Peter's Episcopal Church on Montauk Highway in Bay Shore (221-3211).

'Israel at 50'
Hofstra University marks the 50th anniversary of the state of Israel with "Israel at 50," three months of lectures, films, concerts and exhibitions. It starts tomorrow when the films "Jerusalem: Rhythms of a Distant City" and "You, Me Jerusalem" are shown at 7:30 P.M. at the Monroe Lecture Center Theater (463-4873). On Wednesday at 8 P.M. Dore Gold, permament representative of Israel to the United Nations, opens the lecture series with a talk on "Israel's Quest for Peace and Security" in the Student Center Theater (463-5669). For a complete schedule: 463-5669.

Circus in Town
The Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey Circus opens a weeklong run Tuesday, through March 23, at the Nassau Veterans Memorial Coliseum. This year's edition with its international flavor features acrobats from Gabon in Central Africa; Olympic silver medal-winning rhythmic gymnasts from Bulgaria; the Quiros of Spain on the high wire; Khan, the "World's Tallest Man," and Michu, "the Smallest Man on Earth," from Pakistan; Tong, "the Prince of Pythons" from Vietnam, and Marina, a contortionist, from Russia (794-9300).

'An American Journey'
The Waverly Consort, an early music ensemble of singers and musicians, comes to Staller Center on the Stony Brook campus of the State University Friday at 8 P.M. with "An American Journey: Bound for the Promised Land," a mix of songs, dance and instrumentals that traces the musical pathways of America from Colonial times to the Civil War (632-7230).

'Spring into Poetry'
Although Poetry Month isn't until April, Teenspeak and the Cinema Arts Center in Huntington are starting early -- Saturday to be exact -- with the first of four "Spring Into Poetry" programs designed to bring together poets and poetry lovers. There will be workshops for would-be poets from high school age and up led by professionals like Gerald Stern, Thomas Lux, Marie Howe and performance poets, A Little Bit of Louder, from the Nuyorican Cafe at 10 A.M., readings at 11:30 A.M. and, from 12:15 to 1 P.M., book signings and an open mike. The series continues on April 4, 25 and May 2 at the center on Park Avenue (549-8831).

Long Island Philharmonic
The Long Island Philharmonic begins its spring season Saturday at 8 P.M. at Staller Center on the Stony Brook campus of the State University with a program that offers a world premiere along with standards from the repertory. Under David Lockington's baton, the orchestra will introduce "Three Places on Long Island," by Dana Perna, a Long Island composer; a series of three orchestral essays depicting the Walt Whitman Birthplace in Huntington; Theodore Roosevelt's home, Sagamore Hill, in Oyster Bay, and the Montauk Point Lighthouse. Joined by Dylana Jenson, a violinist, the Philharmonic also plays Tchaikovsky's Violin Concerto in D major (Op. 35) and Beethoven's Symphony No. 2 in D major (Op. 36). The concert will be repeated next Sunday at 7:30 P.M. at Tilles Center in Brookville and Ms. Jenson will conduct a master class at 1 P.M. Friday at North Shore High School in Glen Head (293-2222).

'Celebrating Bach'
Since Johann Sebastion Bach was born on March 21, the Long Island Baroque Ensemble on Saturday marks his 213th birthday with a program of his works, including trio sonata duets for lute and harpsichord and obligato arias for oboe and tenor. William Zito on lute, guitar and Baroque oboe; Daniel Pincus, tenor, and Sonia Grib, harpsichordist, will do the musical honors at 8 P.M. at St. Andrew's Lutheran Church on Brooksite Drive in Smithtown. The concert will be repeated at 3 P.M. next Sunday at Christ Church on East Main Street in Oyster Bay (724-7386). BARBARA DELATINER

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (56%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); CALENDARS (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); MUSIC (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (89%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); WRITERS (89%); DANCERS (78%); DANCE (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (76%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (76%); COUNTIES (73%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (73%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); THEATER (71%); POETRY (69%); RELIGION (69%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (69%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (67%); 

PERSON: CORNEL WEST (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1998



343 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 15; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1623 words

HEADLINE: In the 90's, Take-Out Becomes Take-In

BYLINE: By LESLIE CHESS FELLER 

 BODY:
WHAT does a molecular biologist have in common with a 73-year-old widow, a restaurant chef, two dentists, a police detective and a teacher of gifted children? They all want to enjoy hot, fresh, healthy dinners in the comfort of their own home. They want to eat the kind of food they would prepare themselves if only they had the time. None have the time. Instead, they are becoming happily addicted to different forms of gourmet takeout, an option that puts dinner on the table efficiently, creatively and perhaps most importantly, guilt-free.
Harry Balzer, vice president of the NPD Group, an international market research company with headquarters in Port Washington, said Americans were changing the way they prepare food at home. For many, there is no better shortcut than eliminating it altogether. 
 "Restaurant visits are up, but in-restaurant dining is not," he said. "The number of takeout suppers has doubled in the past decade."
Although the new buzz word in the industry is "home meal replacement," Mr. Balzer suggests this is merely the 1990's version of an old trend. "In 1876, Heinz Ketchup was marketed as a new product 'for the blessed relief of mother.' In 1930, Kraft Macaroni's slogan was 'a meal for four in nine minutes.'
"In the 1950's,there were frozen dinners that moms could just heat and serve."
These days, Mr. Balzer said, "grab-and-go" is the usual preliminary for "heat-and-serve" and the person doing the pick-up is as likely to be dad as mom. Dual-career couples juggling jobs and children are relying on teamwork and innovative meal solutions.
Gary Sokaitis, a Sag Harbor resident who was once Richard Nixon's personal chef and is currently cooking at the Bay Street Cafe in Sag Harbor, is happy to get out of the kitchen at the end of his work day.
"My wife works as an insurance agent until 5 P.M. and then we have to pick up our two sons, one from the baby sitter and the other from school," he said. "My boys want to eat right away."
Mr. Sokaitis uses some sort of takeout option at least two to three times a week. He is a frequent customer of Razzano's, a gourmet Italian restaurant with locations in Port Washington and Bridgehampton.
"I like the quality of their food," he said. "I might pick up a prepared lasagna or frozen pasta and one of their sauces and it's delicious and convenient."
From 7:15 A.M. until 6 P.M., Anita Bickman, a Long Beach middle school teacher, does not have one second to spare. "I teach sixth-grade English and coach the cheerleaders," she said. "Then I have to take my daughter to gymnastics or pick up my son from track practice. And then there's his S.A.T. course. Once I leave school, I'm busy car pooling. Plus there are activities scheduled in the evenings."
To keep pace with a life style that has become "even more hectic as the kids have grown older," the Bickmans bring in dinner two or three times a week.
"My husband is an electrician who commutes from our Lido Beach home to New York City," Ms. Bickman said. "We discuss it in the morning. If I don't have time to pick up dinner, he'll do it on his way home. If we're both tight for time, we'll order in from a place that delivers."
As consumers explore takeout options, retailers are scrambling for their share of this newly defined food dollar. On Long Island, the competition between small specialty gourmet shops and giant supermarkets like King Kullen, Edwards and Waldbaum's is fierce. Lou Mairitis, one of the owners of Stony Brook's Three Village Inn, said, "home meal replacement on Long Island is booming and it is busting."
Mr. Mairitis cited the demise of the North Country Market in Setauket and the Three Village Inn's own auxiliary Gourmet Shop and Bakery (recently converted from retail to an all-catering operation) as an indication that high-end suppliers are struggling.
"Manhattan-style markets like Balducci's or Zabar's don't work in suburbia," he said emphatically. "There's not enough density, too much overhead and the supermarkets are overwhelming competitors. They don't offer the same quality, but they are charging less and it's convenient, one-stop shopping."
Nancy Moore, owner of Moore's Gourmet Market in Port Jefferson, agreed. "It's extremely difficult to compete with the supermarkets," she said. "Also, lately, it seems like there's a gourmet shop on every corner. In 1985, when I opened, there were three others in this area. Now there are eight."
Ms. Moore revamped her store two years ago and offers a menu that includes a variety of vegetarian and specially labeled "heart-smart" choices along with the sort of personal service that keeps people coming back. "We're all on a first-name basis here," she said. "Our customers feel like friends."
"We consider Nancy part of the family; it's a delight to have her cooking for us," said Elliot Taynor, a Port Jefferson orthodontist whose wife, Kathleen, is a police detective who frequently works night shifts. "We are often on opposite schedules," he said. "Sometimes our main meal together is lunch. Whoever has the time will call Nancy and pick up the food."
Dr. Iris Mastrangelo, a molecular biologist, and her husband, Dr. Paul Hough, a biophysicist, can both end up working six or seven days a week, round the clock, doing research at Brookhaven National Laboratory.
"I have built Nancy's offerings into the way I prepare our meals," said Dr. Mastrangelo. "I stock up over the weekend on things we like, her grilled cajun chicken breasts, for instance. I might add rice or peas I saute with shallots. Nancy's food is healthy and very tasty. It has a homemade quality, like it was prepared in a household where the cook is really particular."
The Red Horse Market's general manager, Gregg Deger, described his East Hampton store as a countrified Dean and DeLuca's. "Business is good," he said. "There is competition, of course, like the Barefoot Contessa, which is on a smaller scale but has very good food."
Regarding the new King Kullen 10 minutes down the road, Mr. Deger said: "It's certainly drawn away customers because we don't carry paper products and diapers, but their prepared foods are nothing compared to what we offer. We've built a clientele that appreciates quality."
Meg Young, a 73-year-old widow and retired real-estate agent, relies on the Red Horse Market for "fresh, delicious food" and courteous personal service to match.
"They know me by name," she said. Along with The New York Times the staff puts aside for her every day, Mrs. Young appreciates the individual, pre-prepared servings of dishes she loves.
"Everything is of the highest quality," she said, "and they have daily half-price specials. I find it much more economical than going out to buy all the ingredients to do it myself. These days, unless I am giving a dinner party, I don't choose to cook."
Ina Garten, owner of the Barefoot Contessa, cited her shop's location on Main Street in East Hampton as a major advantage. "We're in the center of town, right in the walk-by traffic pattern, so people in to do some shopping can easily pick up dinner."
By contrast, Razzano's which offers a selection of 25 or 30 hot, fresh home-style entrees, is what the manager Joe Dia calls "a destination retailer."
"We are not on the main drag," he said. "People drive to us specifically. We do a big takeout business from 4 P.M. to the final rush before closing time at 6:30 P.M."
The Golden Pear, with locations in Southampton, East Hampton, Bridgehampton and Westhampton Beach, describes itself as a "food boutique." Their "Home in a Hurry" takeout dinners, available for the past three months, have been selling well to professional people between the ages of 40 and 55.
"We're getting dual-career couples, empty nesters and singles," said the manager, Keith Davis, pointing out that the Golden Pear is actively advertising its new option. "We make it easy for customers to take advantage of it," he said. "They can phone us to order in advance and we'll have it packaged and ready."
Dr. Robert Reiner and his wife, Dr. Ann Nasti, Old Field residents and dentists, jumped on the gourmet takeout bandwagon at its inception.
"We've been in practice together for 15 years," said Dr. Reiner. "Neither of us ever wanted to come home and cook." For many years, the couple had a standing arrangement with Elegant Eating in Stony Brook to prepare their dinners. "We told them what we liked and didn't like and they took it from there," Dr. Reiner continued. "We would be surprised when we opened the bag. To be very honest, I don't think there is a single adult meal consumed in this house that hasn't been brought in pre-prepared. Since our son was born, seven years ago, we want to spend quality time with him when we get home from work."
Cooking in the 90's is regarded as recreation rather than obligation. People who can't stand the heat during the week can't wait to get into the kitchen on the weekends.
"I see people wandering the aisles with cookbooks," said the Red Horse Market's Gregg Deger. "They've never cooked before, but suddenly it's fun. They're into it."
Ina Garten pointed out that many Barefoot Contessa customers were more than just capable cooks. "Some of them are superb chefs, but they are too busy to cook," she said.
A case in point. At Lindell Elementary School in Long Beach, Susan Abraham of Great Neck, a teacher of gifted children, is orchestrating another fairy-tale trial. "Last year, we sued Mother Goose for being an unfit mother," she said. "Now Captain Hook is suing Peter Pan for slander.During the school year, who has time to cook? But in the summer, I love to get creative. I do really fancy main courses and extravagant desserts."

GRAPHIC: Photos: At Moore's Gourmet in Port Jefferson, Lisa Cucinello prepares food on a stove top in the kitchen. The large pot contains mussel saffron soup. Takeout gourmet meals are rising in popularity. At Moore's Gourmet, Nancy Moore, right, weighs a takeout meal for Iris A. Mastrangelo. At bottom, Ms. Mastrangelo leaves the store with her packages. (Photographs by Maxine Hicks for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: MOORE'S GOURMET (PORT JEFFERSON, NY, RESTAURANT) NPD GROUP INC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: MOORE'S GOURMET (PORT JEFFERSON, NY, RESTAURANT)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS CHILDREN (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); FROZEN FOODS (77%); PREPARED FOODS (77%); CONVENIENCE FOODS (77%); PASTA & NOODLES (77%); DIETING (77%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (70%); MARKET RESEARCH (69%); INSURANCE (69%); NEW PRODUCTS (66%); 

PERSON: FELLER, LESLIE CHESS RICHARD NIXON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1998



344 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 11; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1304 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property/Florham Park, N.J.;
Once Sleepy Hamlet Now Bustling Corporate Haven

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA 

 BODY:
A GENERATION ago, Florham Park, N.J., was a sleepy residential hamlet nestled along the Columbia Turnpike between Morristown and South Orange, known largely for its bowling alley and roller skating rink. But due to a combination of improved transportation and accidents of history, the borough has become a corporate haven, with over a million square feet of office space completed in the last decade, and more on the way.
Stanley C. Gale, one of the principals of the Gale & Wentworth, L.L.C., a development and management firm based in Florham Park, is about to begin building a speculative 175,000-square-foot office building in the company's campus-like development called Park Avenue at Morris County. The building will complete a 1.15 million-square-foot office park started in 1988, but slowed by the real estate recession of the early 90's. 
 Slightly to the west, the Rockefeller Group is constructing a 175,000-square-foot building for AT&T Laboratories, which has an existing 240,000-square-foot building on the site that was modified for its purposes.
The company, which formerly owned and managed the Rockefeller Center properties east of Avenue of Americas in Manhattan, has made arrangements to acquire 80 acres of land in addition to the 63 acres occupied by the AT&T project, and is developing plans to build 440,000 square feet of office space in two buildings.
Officials of the Rockefeller Group say they are reluctant to build entirely on speculation, despite the booming office market in northern New Jersey. They say they want advance commitments for about 50 percent of the space in each of the planned two buildings before a spade goes into the ground. Nevertheless, they say they expect to start building before the end of the year.
Mr. Gale of Gale & Wentworth said the reason for the attractiveness of the Florham Park site was its good transportation, with I-287 just a short distance away and the proximity of the relatively new Route 24, which provides high speed access to the interstate route. He said the ease of movement combined with the availability of housing in many price ranges convinced companies like Allied-Signal, AT&T, Merck and Warner-Lambert to put their headquarters closer to where their executives lived.
The proximity of Morristown Municipal Airport, which can accommodate corporate jets, was a big help as well, added Rick L. Genthe, a vice president of Gale & Wentworth.
The corporations who chose to locate in northern New Jersey "proved you could function outside the central business district," Mr. Gale said. "Now there is 21st century corporate activity in a bucolic community. "
THE corporate offices have attracted the lawyers, accountants, consultants and other businesses that tend to their needs and whose principals did not mind trading a punishing daily commute into the city for a short car ride. The list of tenants at Park Avenue at Morris County includes McKinsey & Company, Price Waterhouse, Smith Barney, Prudential and Merrill Lynch.
And, Mr. Gale, the presence of of Fairleigh Dickinson University, Drew University and the College of St. Elizabeth close by provide a cultural assurance for executives being transferred to the area.
Mr. Gale said it was thanks to the Sisters of Charity who continue to operate St. Elizabeth's and other institutions in the area, that a 138-acre parcel of undeveloped land was available in a crowded state. The site was formerly operated as a farm by the Sisters, who grazed cattle there until shortly before the site was made available for development in the late 80's.
"This was the first open land west of Short Hills," Mr. Gale said. The big brick barn that was part of the farm remains, although it is no longer used to house cattle on the lower level and to store hay in the upper loft. After extensive renovation, it was reopened in 1994 as the Park Avenue Club, a private gathering spot for meals and meetings.
Another attraction of the area, real estate executives say, is the presence of the Short Hills and Livingston malls, both a short drive from Florham Park.
Around the turn of the century the Morristown area was where as many as 100 millionaires from New York built their country houses and owned expansive estates. The Erie Lackawanna Railroad line, now a part of New Jersey Transit, which serves tens of thousands of commuters today, was originally built, in part, to spare the wealthy from having to endure the primitive roadways of the time during their trips from the city to the country. Madison Avenue, the old Route 24, now Route 124, was called "millionaires' row" because of the number of mansions lining the road.
The 143-acre Rockefeller Group Corporate Park is a legacy of one wealthy couple who contributed, among other things, the name of the borough. Florence and Hamilton Twombly named their 100-room house, now the chief administrative building of Fairleigh Dickinson University, using a combination of their first names, Florham.
When the Afton section of Chatham Township broke away in 1899, it took the name of its largest landowner and became Florham Park.
THE Rockefeller development is on part of the old 900-acre Twombly farm, which had been preserved as relatively open space by Exxon Corporation as a site for some of its research and development operations. Part of the tree-lined driveway that led to the Twombly house still exists on the property, as does a small pond, formed by damming a small stream. It was at this location in 1893 that the Twomblys spent $6,000 to build an electrical generating plant to illuminate a barn dance.
"Florham Park is our kind of neighborhood," said Jonathan D. Green, president of the Rockefeller Group Development Corporation. He said the ambiance of the location and the scarcity of other sites for development are producing some of the highest rental rates in the state. Real estate executives said gross annual rentals in the area were in the high $20's per square foot.
Mr. Green, whose company also is developing the 685-acre International Trade Center in the far western part of Morris County, said the woodsy nature of the location belied its proximity to New York. With the new direct service into Penn Station, real estate executives said, a trip from the nearby station in Madison to the city is no more than 50 minutes.
Plans for the new development are still incomplete pending approvals from the borough, said Eugene A. Preston, a vice president of Rockefeller Group Development. This means prospective tenants have some ability to shape the future buildings to their needs.
"Our initial thought was to make the two buildings of equal size," he said. "But we could make one a little larger and the other a little smaller, depending on what a tenant needs."
The long building drought in New Jersey, has led to a pent-up demand for high quality office space in the area, said Charles Kushner, president of Kushner Companies, real estate developers and investors, which are headquartered in Florham Park. "Morris County is very desirable now, but there is no real space of any size available," he said. "Tenants who need 100,000 square feet are begging me to build."
As a result, he said, developers are busily planning new projects, although few are under way as yet. "There is not a lot going on, but there is a lot on the drawing board," he said. He said he had land under contract on another part of the Exxon site to build 750,000 square feet of office space and is negotiating for land to build an additional 250,000 square feet.
Although the empty parcels of land in places like Florham Park are being developed, a lot of green remains. Mr. Preston of the Rockefeller Group said that even when fully developed, about 77 percent of the 143-acre site would still be open space.

GRAPHIC: Photos: AT&T Laboratories building under construction. Above, Park Avenue at Morris County office park. (Photographs by Dith Pran/The New York Times)
 
Map showing the location of Florham Park, N.J.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WWM (ASX) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531311 RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (85%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GALE & WENTWORTH LLC; ROCKEFELLER GROUP INC WENTWORTH HOLDINGS LTD (85%); PARK AVENUE CLUB (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: GALE & WENTWORTH LLC; ROCKEFELLER GROUP INC PARK AVENUE CLUB (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORHAM PARK (NJ); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); ROLLERBLADING & ROLLERSKATING (77%); AIRPORTS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); BOWLING CENTERS (58%); 

PERSON: HOLUSHA, JOHN DAVID DAVIS (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1998



345 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 11; Page 5; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1248 words

HEADLINE: Historic Buildings in Houston Getting New Roles

BYLINE: By DEBRA BEACHY 

DATELINE: HOUSTON

 BODY:
THE homeless people who once congregated under the cast-iron portico of an abandoned old downtown hotel have been replaced by construction crews working to transform the historic, red-brick 18-story Rice Hotel into 312 rental apartments.
The reincarnated 1913 structure, which will be known as The Rice, will have a restaurant, a coffee house, a health club, ballroom, art gallery and an Italian grocery. 
 Directly behind The Rice, an 1882 vintage building on the edge of the theater district has been transformed into the Solero, a trendy Spanish restaurant.
On Travis Street, three blocks north of The Rice, the eight-story Hermann Lofts, an office building completed in 1917, has been converted into 26 condominium apartments, all but one of which has been sold, and a restaurant. Apartment prices range from $95,000 for 700 square feet to $350,000 for 2,100 square feet. Its 6,500-square-foot penthouse has been sold for in excess of $1.4 million.
Nearby, another historic turn-of-the-century red-brick office building, Hogg Palace, has reopened with 79 open-loft apartments renting for $800 a month for a small studio to a two-bedroom for $2,100, a gym and a restaurant. Its penthouse office, with a large terrace, rents for $8,500 a month.
Four blocks to the east, work has begun on the conversion of the 1910 Southern Pacific office building into 105 apartments. Completion is expected within a year.
The historic buildings being revived for re-use are in a downtown best known for its modern glass-and-steel skyscrapers. Most are within 10 blocks of the city's theater district, home to the Houston Ballet and the Houston Grand Opera, the Houston Symphony and theaters where Broadway plays and musicals are performed. The new $23 million Bayou Place, in the theater district, opened last November with restaurants, clubs and an eight-screen movie theater.
The proximity of renovated buildings to the city's cultural center and the eclectic mix of remodeled turn-of-the-century buildings and futuristic skyscrapers is drawing residents like John Axelrod, who rented a fifth-floor one-bedroom apartment in Hogg Palace six months ago for $1,000 when he returned to his native city after living in Vienna, Prague and St. Petersburg.
"I like the juxtaposition of the old and new buildings," he said. "They represent some of the most outstanding architecture in the country, and they're all next to each other."
MR. AXELROD, a conductor who founded Orchestra X, which performs classical music in clubs and restaurants, said he also likes living close to the action. "Downtown Houston is like Lincoln Center and Broadway all rolled into one," said Mr. Axelrod. "You have one of the top 10 musical theaters, symphonies, operas, and ballets in the country that are consistent in their excellence, and they're all right next to each other."
Houston's museum district is five minutes away, and the University of Houston, nationally recognized for its creative-writing program, as well as Rice University, with its renowned music school, add to the draw downtown for the young and artistically inclined, Mr. Axelrod said. "I don't think there is one person over 35 living in Hogg Palace," he said.
The accent on saving these historic buildings is far different from just a few years ago, when conservationists could not keep a three-story red-brick 1883 historic Victorian office building on Main Street from being demolished, said Stephen Fox, an architectural historian and author of the Houston Architectural Guide. He teaches at Rice University and the University of Houston.
"What is so great is to see Houstonians waking up to the value of these buildings," said Mr. Fox.
The Rice is the crown jewel of the buildings, he said. Historically, the site itself is significant. It was where a temporary capitol building for the Republic of Texas stood from 1837 to 1839. President John F. Kennedy napped at the hotel the day before he was assassinated in Dallas, and a special suite with his name and memorabilia is on the building's fifth floor.
At the turn of the century, Main Street was the most prestigious downtown address. A major public food market was in what is still known as Market Square, where loft buildings are a recent addition.
Randall Davis, a local developer who is renovating The Rice, along with his partner, Post Properties of Atlanta, said the $32 million redevelopment project could not have occurred without $6 million in a tax abatement and grants from the city.
Before all the financing for the project was in place, Mr. Davis said, he would "drive around the building asking myself if I wanted to fight all the battles."
The building had an absentee owner and violations for asbestos and lead paint throughout the building, a leaky roof and chemicals in the basement. The city bought the building in 1996 for $3 million, then gave a 40-yearlease to Mr. Davis and his partner with the stipulation that they redevelop it.
"How many times do you get to do something in your life that really makes a difference," he said.
Mr. Davis said that a third of the apartments at the Rice, where rents range from $750 for an efficiency to $3,800 for the largest three-bedroom, had been preleased. The opening is scheduled for next August, he added.
The renovated condominium and rental apartments are expected to attract 1,000 new residents to downtown, adding to the 2,000 people who already live there, said Nancy Brainerd, president of the Downtown Houston Association.
Chuck Russell, part owner of the Solero tapas restaurant and bar, which opened last April, said business at 910 Prairie Street was three times greater than projections at the outset.
THE pioneering efforts of Mr. Davis in renovating historic structures, local developers say, helped to spur the current downtown revival. That effort, begun in 1993, has sent prices soaring in the area. In all, Mr. Davis is responsible for the creation of 525 apartments in four historic buildings, including the Rice Hotel.
"People expected a lot of downtown housing," he said. "Prices were cheap. Now the economics don't make sense for rental apartment buildings."
The prices have risen from the $8 a square foot that Mr. Davis and his partners paid for the Rice Hotel to $20 a square foot, said Michael Hassler, vice president of CB Commercial Real Estate Brokerage Services here.
"The single event that changed downtown for inventory was the sale of the Rice Hotel," said Mr. Hassler. The fact that the city provided some financing for the conversion, he said, was "an endorsement" for other such projects downtown.
ANOTHER downtown developer, Doug Crosson, who with his partner, the Spire Realty Group, based in Houston, is renovating Hermann Lofts, said that although the economics had changed for renovating rental properties, there still were profits to be made in resurrecting older buildings as condominiums and small hotels.
Six blocks east of The Rice, land is being cleared to build a new baseball park to open in 2000 and replace the Astrodome as the home of the Astros. The project has attracted developers to what was a blighted neighborhood, said Mr. Hassler of CB Commercial. The Astrodome will continue to host the Houston Livestock Show and Rodeo, and other events. "Five months ago, the area around it was in a dormant state, surrounded by liquor stores and low daily rental hotels," he said. Now, he added, "the area is cleaning itself up."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Former Rice Hotel, left, is being converted into 312 rental apartments. Hermann Lofts, a former office building, now has 26 condominiums. (Photographs by F. Carter Smith for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CENTRAL EUROPE (51%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: PACIFIC OFFICE FURNISHINGS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON (TEX); UNITED STATES (94%); CENTRAL EUROPE (51%); TEXAS, USA (94%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); THEATER (89%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (86%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); HOME PRICES (77%); ART DEALERS (76%); DANCE (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); FILM (76%); DANCE COMPANIES (75%); MUSICAL THEATER (75%); HOMELESSNESS (73%); CITY LIFE (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (72%); MOVIE THEATERS (70%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (68%); MUSIC (68%); 

PERSON: BEACHY, DEBRA MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1998



346 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 9; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1086 words

HEADLINE: AGRICULTURE;
Farmers Hear From Young Members of Their Fan Club

 BODY:
This is National Agriculture Week, an annual celebration of the farmers who provided food and fiber to consumers worldwide. This year the New Jersey Agriculture Society sponsored an essay contest, asking students from the 6th grade to the 11th grade to write on this theme: "New Jersey Agriculture -- How It Makes My Life Better." Here are the first-place winners, who will be honored this week at a ceremony in Trenton.
 
From Rich Soil, Lots of Jobs and Food 
 New Jersey is among the top 20 states in the commercial production of vegetables and plants. New Jersey has approximately 8,000 farms with an average of 104 acres per farm. These farms include fruit, vegetable, plant and livestock farms. I will explain each of these as follows.
All of the above are made possible by New Jersey's very rich soil. New Jersey had previously been heavily covered by forests and in fact 40 percent of New Jersey is still covered with forests. The soil was made rich by wood chips, animal waste and dead plants. Over the years, New Jersey's soil became among the richest in the region.
Vegetables and fruits are the chief produce of New Jersey. They are raised in orchards and farms throughout the state. Significant fruits and vegetables are soybeans, tomatoes, peaches, apples, potatoes, eggplants, onions, peppers, asparagus, cranberries, blueberries, strawberries and, most popular, corn. Corn is grown in several varieties, being consumed in vast quantities by both people and livestock. I have been on several trips with my family where we picked apples and peaches and my mom made homemade pies.
Livestock is important because New Jersey's large corn crop supports many farms which are livestock farms. Cows and pigs and chickens are important industries in New Jersey. Cows provide an important source of dairy products to our region. Also cows provide beef to our markets. Pigs and chickens are also important to our market. On a recent field trip to Popcorn Zoo we saw many animals that are important to New Jersey's agriculture.
New Jersey also has a large amount of farmers who specialize in growing flowers and plants. While New Jersey grows many flowers and plants outdoors, many are raised in greenhouses and nurseries throughout the state.
Jobs are my last topic and a very important one. It is easy to see why New Jersey is called the Garden State. Many of the people who live in New Jersey are employed in the state's agricultural economy. While farmers would be the obvious answer, many people have jobs because of selling all the products from the Garden State.
In conclusion, I think New Jersey agriculture is very good and profitable. When the economy is good in New Jersey, we all prosper. I think, living in New Jersey, I will never have to worry about lacking in vegetables, fruits and livestock.

Pete Guerriero
 Grade Six, Memorial Middle School
Point Pleasant
 
Good for Economy And Environment
When you think of New Jersey, do you think of dirty factories pumping out pollutants? Or do you envision pastoral farms and peaceful cranberry bogs? Many do not realize that about two-thirds of New Jersey's land is farms and forests. The state of New Jersey stands in the front ranks of the agricultural states. Out of the whole nation, it ranks second in production of blueberries, third in cranberries and fourth in tomatoes. New Jersey also produces cabbage, lettuce, cucumbers, squash, pumpkins, melons, peaches, apples and grains. The abundance of food New Jersey produces gives it the nickname "The Garden State." The Garden State provides many benefits for the residents.
The agriculture of my state, New Jersey, is important to me and makes my life better. One way it makes life better is by providing excellent fruits and vegetables for me. I can eat sumptuous blueberries, peaches, squash and other produce, thanks to Jersey farms. Cranberries from New Jersey go perfect with Thanksgiving turkeys!
Another way New Jersey agriculture benefits me and everybody in the state is to make an environment-friendly use of the land. The orchards, farms and bogs help enrich the atmosphere in which I live. They do not contaminate the air we breathe but put the land to good use.
Finally, New Jersey agriculture makes my life better by contributing to our national economy. Jerseyans help feed people all over the United States, so our country does not have to import as much food. My state contributes to the food self-sufficiency in America. This self-sufficiency helps to make my country great. New Jersey's farms do their part in making me a citizen of a great nation.
For all these reasons, and more, the agriculture of New Jersey is very beneficial to me. Good food, a clean environment, and a productive country are only some of Jersey agriculture's benefits to me, The agriculture of the Garden State truly makes my life better.

Joanna Perrick
Ninth grade, home-schooled
Haskell
 
Eating Fresh Means Eating Healthy
New Jersey agriculture is very important to me. I've always lived in New Jersey and eaten New Jersey food products, I've grown up with New Jersey's agriculture. Tomatoes in the summer and apples in the fall. The fruits and vegetables in New Jersey always taste fresh and are always good to eat.
Without New Jersey's agriculture, I wouldn't be able to take a fresh apple out of the refrigerator any time I wanted. I would have to buy fruits and vegetables from a different state or country that wouldn't taste as fresh. New Jersey's agriculture has, sort of, spoiled me because I always want everything to be fresh and taste good.
Everything you eat in New Jersey is fresh and so I've grown up to be very healthy, which has made my life much better. Eating right has become very important to me since I've always eaten healthy New Jersey food.
Without New Jersey's agriculture, Halloween wouldn't be the same. We wouldn't take hayrides out on the farms and pick fresh pumpkins off the vines. This has always been an exciting tradition to our family and friends every year.
Growing up with New Jersey's agriculture, I've been able to be healthy and go to school each day and to avoid getting sick. Having what New Jersey's agriculture has to offer has been what I've grown up to. Tomatoes, cherries, apples, peaches, pears, pumpkins, green beans, broccoli and many more. All of them are fresh and I feel very fortunate to be able to have them nearly all year round.

Kristen Costa
Grade 10
Hunterdon County High School

GRAPHIC: Photo: Saving farmland is the theme of a quilt, designed by Sally King of Toms River, that hangs in the New Jersey Museum of Agriculture. (Frank C. Dougherty for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; ESSAY CONTESTS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH FRUITS & VEGETABLES (93%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); ANIMAL FARMING & BREEDING (89%); ANIMALS (89%); MAMMALS (87%); VEGETABLE & MELON FARMING (78%); SCHOOL FIELD TRIPS (78%); MISC VEGETABLE FARMING (78%); FLORICULTURE PRODUCTION (78%); AGRICULTURAL OUTPUT (78%); AGRICULTURE (78%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); SNACK FOODS (72%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (62%); CORN FARMING (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1998



347 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 9; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: SEASONS;
The Winter That Wasn't Means Woe For Many

BYLINE: By DAVID HERSZENHORN 

DATELINE: NEWARK

 BODY:
The cherry blossoms are blossoming here in Branch Brook Park. The shad have started swimming up the Delaware to spawn. Pollen floats through the air, irritating noses, making eyes burn red. Yes, spring is here and it is early, very early.
Remember when there used to be four seasons? 
 Last week's cold snap notwithstanding, meteorologists are ready to declare this the winter that never was. September somehow turned into March, pausing, it seemed, only briefly for New Year's Day, the one day this winter when the temperature in Newark stayed below freezing for an entire 24 hours.
At Newark International Airport, for the first time on record, there was no measurable snow in the month of February, according to Paul Knight, a meteorologist at Pennsylvania State University. This followed a January in which average daily temperatures were 8.5 degrees above normal.
While there may have been no complaints from household snow shovelers and heating oil customers, for businesses that rely on wintry weather, the unseasonably warm temperatures, lack of snow and heavy rain made this the worst winter ever, economically speaking.
All but one of New Jersey's handful of ski slopes have already closed for the year. "It's hurt a lot of people who sort of count on snow," said Don Benanti, whose New Brunswick concrete company, D. F. Benanti Inc., also does snow plowing and removal.
There is an economic domino effect, Mr. Benanti said. "Body shops don't have the work they used to have from fender benders. The auto parts places aren't selling parts to the body shops. It just mushrooms from one thing to another."
Even though the warm temperatures might have permitted it, the heavy rains often prevented construction companies from working through the winter. Mr. Knight, the meteorologist, offered an expert assessment: "Things turned to mush pretty quickly," he said.
In a normal winter in Newark, there would be 22 days when the temperature remained solidly below freezing for an entire 24 hours, Mr. Knight said. This year, there was only New Year's Day, which was followed by a warm spell and temperatures as high as 60 degrees.
The only snow to fall in urban, northeastern New Jersey was a half inch on Jan. 18. Some areas of southern New Jersey had no snow at all this year and in higher-altitude areas to the north and west, there were 5 to 10 inches of snow, well below the seasonal norms, Mr. Knight said.
School districts have been left with unused snow days. In Bridgewater-Raritan, officials allocated four days in this year's schedule as snow days. None have been used.
"They are days that we have contracted for our teachers to teach," said the superintendent, Joseph P. McGarry. "If we don't have any snow, we are lucky. We have more instruction for our students."
The mild temperatures coupled with the lengthening hours of daylight have sparked a premature budding of spring. Allergy suffers have started sneezing weeks earlier than usual.
Visitors to flower festivals, like the cherry blossom celebration in Branch Brook Park, may see no flowers. Ed Obdens, the assistant parks superintendent in Essex County, predicted that the park's 2,000 cherry trees -- a larger grove than the more famous collection in Washington, D.C. -- would be in full bloom 10 to 15 days before the mid-April festival.
The budding trees are threatened by dips in temperature. "With this cold right now, water in the tissues of the blossoms will freeze and will in turn damage the blossoms that are out," he said.
The early spring is breeding other frustrations.
"People want to get on the ball fields right now," Mr. Obdens said. But the fields are not ready and cannot be worked on yet. "Since the ground did not freeze this year, we have to wait until it dries out. You take the truck out, you tear all the turf up trying to get out to it."
Mosquitoes are one problem not affected by the early spring.
"It is a popular belief that a mild winter means you are going to have a lot of mosquitoes the following year," said Wayne Kranz, an entomologist. He said mosquito eggs "are well adapted to survive the worst winters. Generally, weather patterns over the winter have nothing to do with what you can expect over the summer."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); DELAWARE, USA (88%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: BRANCH BROOK PARK (60%); PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); DELAWARE, USA (88%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: WEATHER; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS WEATHER (89%); METEOROLOGY (89%); TRENDS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (75%); SKIING (71%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (65%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (63%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); AIRPORTS (55%); 

PERSON: HERSZENHORN, DAVID M PAUL KNIGHT (77%); DON BENANTI (56%); ED OBDENS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1998



348 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 11; Page 1; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 3666 words

HEADLINE: Mortgage ABC's in a Borrower's Market

BYLINE: By JAY ROMANO 

 BODY:
TRADITIONALLY, the biggest challenge faced by first-time home buyers, typically a young couple or family, was coming up with a big-enough down payment to qualify for a mortgage. After that, they would need the right combination of confidence, brashness and humility to be able to walk into a lender's office, ask for a huge amount of money and wait nervously for an answer.
Today, the need for amassing a large down payment to buy a house has all but disappeared. It is not uncommon for buyers with good credit and steady incomes to get mortgages with as little as 3 percent down -- and in some areas of the country even that can be borrowed. 
 In fact, bankers and brokers say, the mortgage market is so competitive, with so much money available and so many lenders willing to lend, that the balance of power has shifted dramatically. Now picky borrowers audition eager lenders rather than the other way around. Even first-time buyers often have the luxury of choosing the lender and loan most suitable to them. And that, the bankers and brokers say, combined with interest rates near historic lows, makes right now one of the best times in recent memory for first-time buyers who may be short on cash but long on dreams of owning a home.
"The mortgage market today offers consumers an incredible array of choices," said Barry Zigas, a senior vice president of Fannie Mae, a Washington-based, government-regulated shareholder-owned company that is the largest source of residential mortgage funds in the country. "And no one considering purchasing a home should make any assumptions about what isn't possible."
Effectively navigating the quirky, murky waters of mortgage finance, however, requires at least a basic understanding of some of the more arcane concepts and insider jargon that are certain to be encountered. Here, then, is a primer for neophytes, first-time buyer-borrowers and anyone else who has ever struggled with the question: "What's the difference between a note and a mortgage, and what does P.I.T.I. mean, anyway?"
"Think of a mortgage as two documents," said Richard Nardi, a Manhattan real estate lawyer and past president of the Mortgage Bankers Association of New York. "One document is a promissory note that memorializes a debt you owe to a lender. The other is a pledge of security that gives the lender the right to take your house away if you don't pay what you owe."
And while details of different mortgages vary on such specifics as the amount of the loan, the term, the interest rate, whether the rate can change over the life of the loan and the property secured by the mortgage, Mr. Nardi said, most mortgages are similar in most other respects.
"These are basically non-negotiable documents on standardized forms," he said, explaining that since many lenders ultimately sell their mortgages on the secondary market, in which large groups of individual mortgages are packaged as securities for sale to investors, most mortgage forms contain terms and conditions required by Fannie Mae, the dominant force among secondary-market lenders.
Mr. Zigas, the executive director of Fannie Mae's National Housing Impact Division, explained that the secondary market is what enables mortgage lenders to come up with the seemingly endless supply of money needed to continue making loans to consumers. Secondary-market lenders, he said, typically use investor capital to buy blocks of loans packaged by consumer and commercial lenders. And of the millions of mortgages sold on the secondary market, he said, more than half are bought by Fannie Mae, formerly the Federal National Mortgage Association, and another government-regulated company, Freddie Mac, formerly the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation.
In 1938, "Congress wanted to create a standardized national system of housing finance," he said. "Before Fannie Mae, there was no secondary market." In 1997 alone, Mr. Zigas said, Fannie Mae provided funds for 1.45 million residential mortgages amounting to more than $129 billion.
As a result, most lenders want to keep open the option of being able to sell mortgages on the secondary market -- whether they intend to or not -- and since Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are the biggest kids on the block, the standards they use have become the de facto standards for the industry. And while there are different standards for different types of loans, the loans that meet the minimum standards for sale to the secondary market are generally considered "conforming" loans, while those that do not are typically considered "nonconforming."
"Most nonconforming loans are loans that exceed our $227,150 maximum loan limit," Mr. Zigas said, adding that loans can also be considered nonconforming if the criteria used to approve the borrower for the mortgage do not meet Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac standards.
There are scores of different mortgages available to borrowers today, each with its own combination of terms, qualifying standards and costs, some designed for buyers seeking the smallest possible down payment, others for borrowers for whom the size of the down payment is of less concern. Some are Government-insured mortgages, from the Federal Housing Administration, designed for low-and middle-income borrowers, or the Veterans Administration. SOME are sponsored by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac, some are underwritten by other big investors on the secondary market, such as pension funds and insurance companies, and some are offered directly by lenders who may keep the loan in their own portfolio.
F.H.A.-insured loans, for example, allow for mortgages of up to $170,362 on single-family homes with as little as 3 percent down, and no income limitations. Fannie Mae, for example, also offers 3-percent-down mortgages of up to $227,150 under what it calls the 97 Percent Neighborhood Mortgage Program to first-time buyers in New York City and Nassau, Suffolk and Westchester Counties.
Ellen Bitton, president of Park Avenue Mortgage Group in Manhattan, said that the program, which is limited to one- and two-family houses and condominiums, allows borrowers to get a mortgage with a down payment of as little as 3 percent. To qualify, Ms. Bitton said, total household income cannot exceed $75,570 for borrowers in New York City; $66,500 in Nassau and Suffolk, and $69,800 in Westchester. Another Fannie Mae program, Flexible 97, also permits a 3 percent down payment, but that program, available only in Nassau and Suffolk Counties, allows borrowers with very good credit to borrow the down payment.
At the other end of the spectrum, Ms. Bitton said, is a program offered by a lender who makes mortgages available on one-family homes for borrowers who have a down payment of 25 percent or more. The program, which does not require borrowers to provide any information whatsoever about income or profession, clearly falls outside the "normal" standards of the secondary market. Yet, Ms. Bitton said, the terms of the mortgage are quite reasonable.
"For a borrower with a good credit history, this loan would cost about a half-percent more in interest and one point more than a more traditional loan," Ms. Bitton said, explaining that in mortgage-speak, one point is equal to one percent of the mortgage amount. Generally speaking, she said, points reflect the amount of money being charged by a lender or broker for a particular loan. The number of points being charged, she said, can vary from none to several, depending on factors such as the type of loan sought, the interest rate, the amount of the down payment, the creditworthiness of the borrower, and the relationship that the broker has with its lenders.
"You might go to one broker who'll quote you a mortgage at 7.5 percent and two points," Ms. Bitton said, and "the broker next door" will "quote you 7 percent and one point."
The bottom-line question for most first-time buyers, of course, is whether they will qualify for the mortgage they need.
"Most mortgage decisions are made in four dimensions," said Oded Ben-Ami, a senior loan officer for Sterling National Mortgage, a mortgage banker and broker based in Great Neck, L.I.
Those four dimensions, he said, are income, assets, creditworthiness and the value of the mortgaged property.
"The borrower obviously has to have enough income to afford the mortgage payments, taxes, insurance, and whatever other debt the borrower is carrying," Mr. Ben-Ami said, adding that while employment income is the easiest to document -- W-2 forms or pay stubs along with a verification of employment from the employer are usually sufficient -- self-employment income is equally acceptable as long as it can be documented. Generally, he said, that can be done by producing tax returns for the previous two or three years.
The second dimension -- the borrower's assets -- is considered because the lender wants to know that the borrower can pay for closing costs and still have some reserves left over, Mr. Ben-Ami said.
The third factor, credit history, he said, "should be predictive of prompt and responsible payment of the new obligation." That means that while minor blemishes on credit may be overlooked if an acceptable explanation is provided, more serious problems should be addressed -- if at all possible -- before applying for a mortgage.
In fact, Mr. Ben-Ami said, anyone considering applying for a mortgage in the near future should obtain a copy of his or her credit report from one or all of the national credit reporting agencies to insure that the reports are accurate. Incorrect entries, he said, can and should be removed from the reports by immediately contact the credit bureaus in writing.
The fourth dimension -- the value of the property to be mortgaged -- is actually more than just an assessment of whether the market value exceeds the amount of the mortgage. Instead, Mr. Ben-Ami said, it is an assessment of the relationship between the market value of the property and the equity the borrower has invested in the property -- typically referred to as the "loan-to-value ratio."
"By factoring in the borrower's equity, the bank is betting that the borrower has enough of his own money invested to keep him making payments on time," Mr. Ben-Ami said. "And by factoring in the market value of the property, the bank is making sure that the property is salable enough that the bank can afford to lose that bet."
But if the borrowers' equity is so important to a lender, how is it possible for borrowers to obtain mortgages with down payments of as little as 3 percent?
"With Private Mortgage Insurance," said Mr. Zigas of Fannie Mae, referring to insurance coverage that protects the lender for the difference between the borrower's down payment and the amount of equity needed to make the lender feel the investment is secure -- generally around 20 percent.
"P.M.I. is not a significant expense for the borrower," Mr. Zigas said, "but it enables the mortgage industry to extend credit much more broadly and with interest rates that are no higher than the rates charged on conforming mortgages." He explained that since Fannie Mae's standards require a loan-to-value ratio of at least 20 percent, P.M.I. is necessary to make the loan acceptable to Fannie Mae.
"Most people just starting out haven't been able to accumulate the down payment and the closing costs they would otherwise need to get a mortgage," he said. "P.M.I. helps put those people into homes and at the same time protects the investor." Mr. Zigas said, for example, that the monthly insurance premium on a $150,000 mortgage with 3 percent down would be $112. A homeowner may be able to discontinue the insurance when the equity reaches 20 percent.
Qualifying for a mortgage, of course, involves more than just proving you have an income, a bank account, good credit and a down payment. Lenders need to be satisfied that a borrower's income is going to be sufficient to cover the additional expense involved in carrying the mortgage. Accordingly, many lenders follow Fannie Mae's "debt-to-income ratio" standards.
Regina Huber, director of banking operations for Park Avenue Mortgage Group, explained that most Fannie Mae loan programs permit borrowers to spend no more than 28 percent of their gross income on fixed housing expenses. Those expenses -- which include principal and interest on the loan, real estate taxes and any insurance required -- are often referred to as P.I.T.I. (principal, interest, taxes, insurance).
IN addition, she said, Fannie Mae generally will not allow a borrower's total fixed monthly payments -- which include P.I.T.I. expenses plus recurring debt like credit cards and automobile loans -- to exceed 36 percent of the gross income.
Moreover, Ms. Huber said, since the amount of income considered adequate to support a mortgage is determined largely by the monthly payment, and since different types and terms of mortgages result in different monthly payments, it is possible that a borrower who does not qualify for one mortgage may qualify for another.
For example, she said, the monthly payment on a 15-year mortgage is usually going to be greater than the payment on a 30-year mortgage for the same amount and for the same borrower, even though the interest rate on the 15-year loan will be slightly less. For example, she said, a 15-year, $150,000 mortgage at 7 percent -- the current interest rate for such loans -- is $1,348.24. A 30-year mortgage for the same amount but at 7.25 percent -- also the current rate -- would be $1,023.26.
On the other hand, she said, the monthly payment on the 30-year fixed-rate mortgage is generally going to be more than what will be initially required on, say, a three-year adjustable-rate mortgage for the same amount. The reason, she said, is that adjustable rate mortgages carry, for a specific period, an interest rate lower than that on a fixed-rate mortgage.
When the period ends, the rate can fluctuate up or down based upon a predetermined formula. An adjustable-rate mortgage with an initial interest rate of 6 3/8 percent, Ms. Huber said, would cost $935.81 a month, making such a loan easier to qualify for than either the 15- or 30-year fixed-rate mortgages.
By contrast, in 1982, when rates rose as high as 18.75 percent on new fixed-rate loans and 14.75 percent on new adjustable-rate loans with a three-year intial fixed rate, the monthly payments on a new $150,000, 30-year fixed-rate mortgage were $2,352.62, while the payments in the first three years of the variable-rate loan were $1,866.72.
Ms. Huber added that while adjustable-rate loans may carry lower interest rates than fixed-rate mortgages, they also carry some inherent risks because their interest rates can increase if rates in general rise. At the same time, however, most adjustable mortgages being written today, she said, contain interest increase "caps" of 2 percent per adjustment and 6 percent over the life of the loan.
Paulette Bonanno, a vice president of the National Cooperative Bank in Manhattan, said that even though co-op share loans are technically not mortgages -- which only apply to real estate -- but are pledges of stock certificates and the proprietary lease, the criteria used to qualify borrowers for share loans are typically the same standards used by Fannie Mae.
Ms. Bonanno added that the influence and consistency of Fannie Mae were what made it possible for mortgage brokers to arrange loans, because the brokers can be sure they are submitting only qualified borrowers to the lenders. On the other hand, she said, since not all lenders sell their loans to Fannie Mae, an efficient broker who works closely with several lenders will know the procedures and requirements of each and submit borrowers accordingly.
"Lenders have their particular way of doing things," Ms. Bonanno said. "And a good broker knows what the lender wants."
As a result, Ms. Bonanno said, while a borrower may end up paying for the broker's services, a reputable one is usually worth the extra cost. "You just have to ask around, shop around and compare brokers," she said.
Many first-time buyers, of course, make their initial contact with a mortgage broker or lender only after finding a property to buy. And while those who go shopping for mortgages at that point are no less likely to obtain one than others who do it sooner, the ones who wait may be overlooking a valuable tool that can be used when negotiating the terms of a sale with an owner. "The first thing we do is make sure our buyers get prequalified for a mortgage," said Peter Bell, chief executive officer of Balch Buyers Realty, a buyers-only broker based in Mamaroneck, N.Y.
Mr. Bell explained that prequalification means that a specific lender has determined that a specific borrower has the ability to obtain a mortgage for a certain amount of money and that the lender is likely to provide that mortgage if the value of the property warrants it. That, he said, can be useful in two ways: first, it provides the buyer with a clear assessment of how costly a house he can buy, and second, it provides the buyer with leverage in negotiating with a seller.
IN fact, whether or not prequalification is the goal, it usually pays for a borrower to begin shopping for a mortgage sooner rather than later.
"You're going to spend six months looking for a home and then find you have just a couple of weeks to go shopping for the mortgage," said Keith T. Gumbinger, vice president of HSH Associates, a mortgage-industry publisher in Butler, N.J. "So giving yourself as much time possible to shop in advance is crucial to getting the best deal." He added that in addition to comparing mortgages offered through brokers, borrowers should contact lenders directly and check the Internet for prevailing rates and fees. Some useful Web sites include Fannie Mae's Home Path (www.HomePath.com), which provides lists of lenders offering Fannie Mae mortgages; Intuit's Quicken Mortgage (www.QuickenMortgage.com) where borrowers may be able to get pre-qualified for a mortgage by one of the 11 participating national lenders; and the HSH Associates home page (www.hsh.com) which lists current rates offered by area lenders and other information of interest to borrowers.
 It is also prudent, Mr. Gumbinger said, for buyers who find a mortgage with terms they like to lock in the interest rate. While some lenders permit lock-ins at no additional cost, others can charge as much as a half point for a lock-in that exceeds 60.
A lock-in, he said, insures borrowers against unexpected increases in the interest rate. And while a rate lock may deprive the borrower of a lower rate if interest rates fall, Mr. Gumbinger said, the benefits of a lock-in usually outweigh the risks.
"My feeling is that by not locking in a good rate," he said, "you leave yourself with too little to win and too much to lose."
 
Guide to Vocabulary of Mortgage-Speak
 Here is a glossary of terms used in the mortgage process, with definitions provided by Fannie Mae, the name formally adopted by what was once the Federal National Mortgage Association, which purchases mortgage loans from issuers, either as an investment or for resale in secondary markets, and as such is the largest source of residential mortgage funds in the country.
Amortization: The gradual repayment of a mortgage by installments, calculated to pay off the principal at the end of a fixed period of time.
 Amortization Schedule: A timetable for payment of a mortgage showing the amount of each payment applied to interest and principal and the balance remaining.
Cap: A provision of an adjustable rate mortgage limiting how much the interest rate or mortgage payments may increase or decrease.
Commitment Letter: A formal offer by a lender stating the terms under which it agrees to lend money to a home buyer.
Conforming Loan: A loan that meets the underwriting guidelines of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and does not exceed the maximum allowable loan limit of $227,150.
Due-on-Sale Clause: A provision in a mortgage allowing the lender to demand repayment in full if the borrower sells the property that is securing the mortgage.
Equity: A homeowner's financial interest in a property. Equity is the difference between the fair market value of a property and the amount still owed on the mortgage.
First Mortgage: A mortgage that has first claim to the secured property in the event of a default.
Fixed-Rate Mortgage: A mortgage in which the interest rate does not change during the entire term of the loan.
Foreclosure: The legal process by which a mortgaged property may be sold when a mortgage is in default.
Lock-In: A written agreement guaranteeing the home buyer a specified interest rate provided the loan is closed within a set period of time. The lock-in also usually specifies the number of points to be paid at closing.
Mortgage Banker: A company that originates mortgages exclusively for resale in the secondary market.
Mortgage Broker: An individual or company that, for a fee, acts as intermediary between borrowers and lenders.
Mortgagee: The lender in a mortgage agreement.
Mortgagor: The borrower in a mortgage agreement.
Origination Fee: A fee paid to a lender for processing a loan application.
P.I.T.I.: Stands for principal, interest, taxes and insurance, the components of a monthly mortgage payment.
Points: A one-time charge by the lender to increase the yield of the loan; a point is 1 percent of the amount of the mortgage.
Principal: The amount borrowed or remaining unpaid; also, that part of the monthly payment that reduces the outstanding balance of a mortgage.
Qualifying Ratios: Guidelines applied by the lenders to determine how large a loan to grant a home buyer.
Underwriting: The process of evaluating a loan application to determine the risk involved for the lender. It involves an analysis of the borrower's creditworthiness and the quality of the property itself.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Barry Zigas of Fannie Mae sees a huge array of mortgage choices. (Michael Geissinger for The New York Times)(pg. 6)
 
Drawing (John S. Dykes)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FNM (NYSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (66%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (74%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (74%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (74%); NEW YORK, USA (74%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; INTEREST RATES; MORTGAGES MORTGAGE LOANS (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING (77%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (72%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (72%); DEBT NOTES (71%); EXECUTIVES (64%); 

PERSON: ROMANO, JAY BARRY ZIGAS (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1998



349 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 14; Page 10; Column 5; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 434 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: NEW YORK ON LINE;
A Voice for the Irish

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ 

 BODY:
No shamrocks or leprechauns here.
 "Traditional musicians and their year-round fans view St. Patrick's Day in the same jaundiced light that seasoned drinkers see New Year's Eve: it's amateur night," said Don Meade in his column On the Fiddle, a regular feature of a Web site called Irish Voice Online. Music events on "Paddy's Day," he continues, "tend to attract a lot of once-a-year, 'Kiss-me-I'm-Irish' types who can't tell a hornpipe from a gaspipe." 
 Behold Ireland for the Irish (and the Irish in America). Mr. Meade, who is Irish-American, also writes for the Manhattan weekly newspaper Irish Voice. It was founded some 10 years ago as a forum for Irish immigrants, who were flocking, legally and illegally, to the Northeast when Ireland's economy took a nasty spill in the 1980's. A rudimentary version of the paper went up on the Web in summer 1996. The latest site, with many of the articles in the newsstand version, went up last August.
 "We are still writing for the Irish newly arrived," said Darina Molloy, 27, a former reporter for The Connaught Telepgraph in County mayo who came to New York in 1994. Besides writing and reporting for the Irish Voice, she also organizes stories for the Web. "But we've also tride to expand the audience to Irish-Americans and to anyone interested in Ireland and Irish affairs," she said.
 The number of visitors to the site, while still small, is growing quickly. Weekly hits, or page views, are averaging 3,000, up from 800 hits a week last fall. The Irish Voice says the newspaper's circulation is 65,000.
 WHAT YOU SEE Irish Voice Online covers news about the Republic of Ireland, Northern Ireland and Irish communities in America, especially those in the New York region.
 An article on Feb. 11 by Ms. Molloy, for example, reported that recent Irish immigrants were returning to a New York institution where their numbers had been dwindling: the New York City Police Department.
 An article on March 4 bearing the headline " 'I Owe Nothing,' Says gertie Byrne," brings readers up to date on a complex lawsuit pitting two Irishmen in County Mayo against an Irish-American woman in New York over a festival held at Yonkers Raceway in 1994.
 OUTSIDE LINKS Scores, including news groups and chat rooms in Scottish Gaelic, Irish Gaelic and Manx, a nearly extinct language spoken on the Isle of Man.
 WHAT YOU GET A work in progress. Ms. Molloy says the newspaper's first priority is to establish digital archives so more than one issue at a time can be displayed on the Web.
 IRISH VOICE ONLINE
(http://www.irishvoice.com/index.htm)

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); IRELAND (88%); ISLE OF MAN (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); SCOTLAND (71%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: IRISH VOICE ONLINE (96%); NEW YORK CITY POLICE DEPARTMENT (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK CITY POLICE DEPARTMENT (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (96%); IRELAND (88%); ISLE OF MAN (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); SCOTLAND (71%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; IRISH-AMERICANS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES INTERNET & WWW (90%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); IMMIGRATION (88%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); FESTIVALS (78%); INTERNET AUDIO (78%); MUSIC (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (76%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (73%); CHAT ROOMS (71%); WEB SITES (71%); SUITS & CLAIMS (69%); REFUGEES (69%); LITIGATION (68%); POLICE FORCES (61%); ANCIENT & EXTINCT LANGUAGES (60%); 

PERSON: DON MEADE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1998



350 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 15, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 11; Page 1; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 383 words

HEADLINE: POSTINGS: Redeveloping the Hammerstein Estate in Queens;
Wildflower to Blossom Again in Beechurst

 BODY:
For the last decade, there have been several proposals to develop the Tudor-style mansion built in 1924 for Arthur Hammerstein, the Broadway producer and uncle of lyricist Oscar Hammerstein 2d. The two-story, 15-room house called Wildflower, for Arthur Hammerstein's 1923 hit play, sits abandoned along the waterfront in Beechurst, Queens, a victim of arson, vandalism and time.
But now the five-acre grounds of the estate at 168-11 Powells Cove Boulevard have been cleared and work is to begin this month on restoring the mansion and reshaping it into six residences. 
 Thirty-two simplex and duplex units will also be built on just over two acres in four, three-story town-houses designed to blend with the mansion, which was designated a landmark in 1982.
The aim is that the community "looks like it has been there from the start," said Faruk Yorgancioglu, a Bridgehampton L.I., architect who designed the project in association with Beyhan Karahan & Associates of Manhattan
The mansion and duplex units will have two to four bedrooms and 1,329 to 2,342 square feet; the two-bedroom simplexes will have 1,013 to 1,117 square feet. Prices are expected to be $232,690 to $276,060 for the simplexes and $373,930 to $682,740 for the duplexes. Monthly charges are to be $194 to $425.
The developer of the $10-million project is Wild Flower Developers of Whitestone, Queens. It is the real estate arm of Kiska Construction Corporation U.S.A. -- the North American subsidiary of a Turkish engineering firm based in in Ankara.
Kiska is no stranger to the site. In 1987 the company bought it and proposed making the mansion a clubhouse for a 171-unit condominium project, which was thwarted by local opposition.
In 1993, Kiska sold the site to another developer and last October repurchased it believing the current project "was economically viable and pleasing to the community," said Meir Kahtan, a spokesman for the developer. Future plans call for 30 more town houses.
The mansion is one of the last architectural links to a time, in the 1920's, when Beechurst was a retreat for Broadway's elite and stars of the budding film industry.
That sense of history and the site's setting "will be a big plus" to attract buyers, said Mr. Yorgancioglu. Sales are expected to begin in May.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 12, 1998, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
A report in the Postings column on March 15 about redeveloping the former Arthur Hammerstein estate misspelled the name of the estate's Queens neighborhood. It is Beechhurst, not Beechurst.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Model of former Hammerstein mansion with 32 town-house units around it. (Guler Ugur)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (66%); 

COUNTRY: TURKEY (91%); UNITED STATES (91%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); ANKARA, TURKEY (53%); 

COMPANY: WILD FLOWER DVELOPERS KISKA CONSTRUCTION CORP (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: WILD FLOWER DVELOPERS

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; ; TURKEY (91%); UNITED STATES (91%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); ANKARA, TURKEY (53%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION; HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES REAL ESTATE (90%); ENGINEERING (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (74%); HISTORIC SITES (73%); VANDALISM (72%); ARSON (56%); 

PERSON: ARTHUR HAMMERSTEIN (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1998



351 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 16, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: Taxing Sales on the Internet: Many Governors vs. Congressional Legislation

BYLINE: By PETER PASSELL 

 BODY:
Buoyed by White House support and facing only tepid opposition from the nation's governors, Silicon Valley has state and local tax collectors on the defensive: Congress is on the verge of passing legislation that would effectively bar sales taxes on Internet transactions until 2004.
"The outcome is not in doubt," said Representative Christopher Cox, Republican of California, who is sponsoring the Internet Tax Freedom Act in the House. 
 The bill responds to fears that a thicket of conflicting taxes will choke off the growth of Internet commerce, in particular inhibiting its use by small businesses that could not cope with the burden of the paperwork. But some analysts -- and many governors -- worry that a Federal moratorium would set a precedent that would permanently deprive state and local governments of a huge potential revenue source.
"If we don't tax Internet commerce now, it will never be taxed," said William Gale, an economist at the Brookings Institution, the research group in Washington.
With a few exceptions, states have made little effort to tax Internet service providers like America Online. Retail sales through the Internet are, in theory, covered by "use" taxes that require consumers to pay taxes in their home states no matter where they buy. But under Supreme Court rulings, one state cannot compel a merchant in another to collect use taxes unless the merchant has a substantial business presence in the state where the buyer lives.
That has not prevented businesses from imagining a day when states try to tax Internet use. In a survey of executives from large retailers and media corporations conducted by KPMG Peat Marwick in 1996, half said that tax ambiguities had already tempered plans for Internet commerce. And Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon, along with Representative Cox, has been leading the charge for a legislative remedy.
The Senate and House bills that have emerged from committee would bar taxes on monthly Internet access charges until January 2002. State and local governments would remain free to tax purchases made on the Internet, but the Cox-Wyden bill would bar attempts to go beyond the limits on out-of-state collection set by the Supreme Court. "The states would be no less able to collect sales taxes than they are today," Mr. Cox said.
Many tax specialists sympathize with efforts to avoid discriminatory taxes on Internet service providers. "States are notorious for their inconsistencies, taxing services on a hit-or-miss basis," said Joel Slemrod, an economist at the University of Michigan's business school.
By the same token, many sympathize with the problems that businesses -- particularly "mom and pop" stores expanding onto the Internet -- potentially face in selling to customers in thousands of different tax districts. But they are wary of precedents that effectively put Internet sales out of bounds to state and local tax collectors. "Internet commerce is small today," Mr. Gale said, "but what happens to local tax bases when the Net becomes a major presence in retailing?"
With flat-out opposition to the Internet legislation no longer a realistic option now that the President and the Governors of New York, California and Virginia have taken a stance in favor of the Cox-Wyden bill, the National Governors' Association is pressing an alternative.
Led by Gov. Michael O. Leavitt of Utah and Gov. Roy Romer of Colorado, the association is willing to accept a permanent prohibition on taxing access to the Internet. But in return, it wants Washington to give individual states a powerful incentive to create a single consolidated tax on out-of-state purchases, both electronic and mail order.
The association's proposal would override the Supreme Court ruling by requiring large vendors to collect use taxes on behalf of states as long as the states conformed to a single tax structure. "Now is the time for a system that creates a level playing filed for all sellers," Governor Leavitt said.
But the governors' approach faces strong opposition. Although their bill would meet the primary objective of Internet service providers, it would also open Internet commerce to taxation. "We see this as a new tax that would generate $16 billion in revenue by the year 2000," Senator Wyden said.
Probably more important, it would tie Internet tax legislation to the fate of the states' attempts to force mail-order vendors to collect taxes from out-of-state customers. And because there is hardly a ground swell for such a move in Congress, there might be no legislation at all -- a result that would not unduly disturb most opponents of the Internet Tax Freedom Act.
The governors, it is generally conceded, are playing a weak political hand. House leaders are promising a floor vote on the Cox-Wyden bill this month. And last week, Senator Trent Lott, the majority leader, predicted that the bill would come to a vote in the Senate by May.
The real question, then, is whether the governors can salvage a compromise with the bill's Congressional sponsors. "I'm persuaded there is still a lot of common ground here," Governor Leavitt said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (55%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL GOVERNORS ASSN KPMG LLP (66%); AOL INC (55%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (56%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GOVERNORS ASSN BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (56%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; SALES TAX; INTERNET AND WORLD WIDE WEB; LAW AND LEGISLATION; STATES (US) TAXES & TAXATION (93%); LEGISLATION (91%); INTERNET & WWW (91%); GOVERNORS (91%); INTERNET RETAILING (90%); INTERNET SALES TAX (90%); SALES TAX (90%); TAX LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); RETAIL SALES (89%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (89%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (87%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); RETAILERS (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (75%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (74%); TAX CONSULTING (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (67%); SUPREME COURTS (65%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER CHRISTOPHER COX (79%); RON WYDEN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1998



352 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 16, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 928 words

HEADLINE: MEDIA: ENTERTAINMENT;
The Simpsons and their progeny colonize television in a golden era for animation.

BYLINE: By James Sterngold 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES

 BODY:
AS everyone knows, television viewers are growing increasingly sophisticated and are demanding ever more thoughtful shows from an expanding number of channels. And so, as the networks look for ways to appeal to our high-mindedness, they have latched on to a new tool: a flood of animated shows.
When Fox Broadcasting put "The Simpsons" on the air in 1989, featuring an odd family with overbites and brilliant yellow skin, most experts scoffed. After all, it had been years since "The Flintstones" and "The Jetsons" had attracted audiences with what was often characterized as contrived silliness. 
 Now, the networks are ushering in a golden era of animated shows. "The Simpsons," a hugely profitable show about a deliriously dysfunctional family, has been joined by another Fox success, "King of the Hill," a chronicle of the woes of a conservative Texan confronting changing times. (There are also animated shows on cable including "Daria" on MTV; "Spawn" on HBO, and "South Park," "Dr. Katz: Professional Therapist" and "The Critic" on Comedy Central, plus, coming this summer, "Bob and Margaret.")
There are at least six more adult animated shows in the works, two on Fox, three on the WB Network and one on UPN. Many more are being developed and could be on the air within three years.
The sudden proliferation of animated shows is a tribute not just to the desire of network executives to try to replicate the success of "The Simpsons," which has earned hundreds of millions of dollars, but to tap into a medium with several economic advantages: It does not get dated like live-action shows and thus can run in syndication longer, it tends to sell well overseas, and it tends to generate large merchandise sales. "You don't see a lot of 'Home Improvement' T-shirts out there, but we get an enormous number of requests for 'The Simpsons' merchandise," said Rick Jacobson, the president of Twentieth Television, Fox's syndication unit. "It can be very profitable."
Dean Valentine, the president of UPN, which is developing a show based on the "Dilbert" comic strip, noted the breadth of the audience for well-made animated shows. "Animation has the capacity to appeal to a broader audience than many live-action shows," he said. "It has an inherent appeal to kids, but over all it is far more culturally transportable. It is easier to sell internationally, and that can be very important to a show's financial success."
Fox is adding "The PJ's," about a family in the projects in New Jersey, starring Eddie Murphy as the voice of the lead character, and "Futurama," a futuristic show by Matt Groening, who created "The Simpsons." Negotiations to finalize the contract for "Futurama" have not been completed, said Peter Roth, the president of Fox Broadcasting. But he said that the show had been in development for three years and that Mr. Groening had already made a three-hour pitch for the show, which he described as "staggering."
"The PJ's" will be slightly unique in that it will employ a form of claymation, which involves using clay models -- or in the case of "The PJ's," foam models -- and numerous still shots of the models as they are bent and twisted to create the illusion of movement.
Mr. Roth emphasized, though, that the success or failure of the shows would depend on their writing, not the realism of the figures. "The animation enhances the success of the show, but the real basis of the appeal is the writing and the characters," he said.
The WB Network is developing three shows: "Invasion America," which is being done by Steven Spielberg; "Baby Blues," based on the comic strip about a young couple raising a baby, and an untitled show aimed mostly at teen-agers that is being produced by two "Simpsons" alumni.
Mr. Roth of Fox summed up the simple logic behind the new wave of animated shows. "The animated form is slightly more expensive to produce," Mr. Roth said. "On the other hand, the profit potential on a show like 'The Simpsons' is astronomical. The animated form is universal in its appeal."
There are, in fact, several potential liabilities to animation. For one, it can take six months or more to produce a single episode compared with a few weeks or so for a live-action show. There are many more steps in animation as the shows are written and rewritten, the voices recorded, the basic animation laid out and the material sent overseas -- usually to Korea or Taiwan to save money -- for the final animation to be generated.
Several executives said that a typical animated show, in its first year, could cost $600,000 to $800,000 an episode to produce. A sitcom will usually cost closer to $500,000 to $700,000.
On the other hand, animated characters do not make increasing salary demands as a show's success grows. In addition, writers can have more latitude.
"You can have 40 scenes in an animated show, whereas there might be 7 or 8 in the typical sitcom," said Garth Ancier, the president of entertainment at the WB Network. "That's a big difference, and a good writer can really take advantage of that. You can go anywhere, do anything."
The real payoff for any television show is syndication; if a show remains on the air for about four years, it has accumulated enough episodes to be offered to independent stations. If "The Simpsons" is any indication, this is a particularly rich realm for animated shows. "The Simpsons" has been earning about $1.5 million an episode in syndication, a handsome sum, but less than the top shows, like "Seinfeld," which has received closer to $3 million.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Steven Spielberg is creating "Invasion America" for the WB Network. (Dream Works L.L.C.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FOX (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (91%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (68%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (68%); NEW JERSEY, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; ANIMATED FILMS NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); ANIMATION (90%); ANIMATED TELEVISION (90%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (88%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); ANIMATED FILMS (72%); EXECUTIVES (64%); RETAIL SALES (62%); 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES STEVEN SPIELBERG (58%); EDDIE MURPHY (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1998



353 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 16, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1237 words

HEADLINE: Second Chance at Defiance For a British Newspaper

BYLINE: By WARREN HOGE 

DATELINE: LONDON, March 15

 BODY:
The Independent, the newspaper that defiantly challenged the partisan practices of Britain's press at its founding in 1986 but has been losing money, staff and readers in recent years, has been given a new start.
Coming to the newspaper's rescue and pledging a return to its founding values is Anthony J. F. O'Reilly, the Irish industrialist who is the chief executive of the H. J. Heinz Company in Pittsburgh and who heads a chain that owns newspapers in Ireland, Australia, New Zealand, Portugal and South Africa. 
 In an announcement that ended months of uncertainty about the future of The Independent, Mr. O'Reilly's Independent Newspapers, based in Dublin, said on Wednesday that it was taking full control of the paper, promising an end to cutbacks and establishing a United States-style division between the news and editorial departments to reinforce the notion, rare in Britain, of coverage free of bias.
"It's the American model, very important, something that guarantees a sort of separation of powers," Mr. O'Reilly said on Friday in an interview from his vacation home in Lyford Key in the Bahamas.
Mr. O'Reilly, 61, is himself a storied figure, starting out as Ireland's greatest rugby player and becoming one of America's leading executives with a renown for his after-dinner speeches, his talent at mimicry, his friendships with world leaders and the peripatetic life he leads on private jets around the world.
He said he had no quarrel with the right of papers like The Times, The Daily Telegraph and The Guardian to have their particular points of view, but he felt Britain lacked and needed "an independent voice, neither right nor left, a voice for inquiring, skeptical Britons."
The Independent's original owners placed the paper at the top end of the market, pursuing readers disenchanted with the new popular direction The Times of London took after Rupert Murdoch bought it. The Independent proved to be a strong attraction not just for readers but for writers from The Times and other broadsheets.
Its founding editor, Andreas Whittam Smith, wrote in its first issue, "We will both praise and criticize without reference to a party line." This phrase, unremarkable in some societies, resonated in Britain, where newspapers often reflect the views of their owners in their news pages as well as on their editorial pages. The Daily Telegraph and The Times are notably conservative, and The Guardian is dependably liberal.
Just this month, The Times demonstrated the limits on its editorial independence by ignoring for a week reports that the HarperCollins publishing house had disguised its reasons for dropping the memoirs of Chris Patten, the former British Governor of Hong Kong, to cloak the involvement of Mr. Murdoch, who owns HarperCollins and The Times. Mr. O'Reilly said Mr. Patten was joining the board overseeing operation of The Independent.
Using the slogan "It is . . . are you?", The Independent had astonishingly developed a circulation of 415,000 by 1990, running slightly ahead of The Times and The Guardian. It also established an eye-catching policy of running photographs on its front page of a size and artistic composition unusual in daily journalism.
Then came a series of blunders compounded by a recessionary downturn in advertising and a rise in newsprint prices. Its management controls proved to be too lax, and it started a costly and ill-timed Sunday edition. When Mr. Murdoch began a price war in 1993, selling some editions of The Times at less than cost, The Independent was particularly hard hit. The circulation of The Times doubled while that of The Independent declined to 200,000, and its staff of known writers deserted the failing ship.
Faced with enormous financial problems, The Independent was sold to an odd partnership led by the tabloid Mirror Group and Mr. O'Reilly's Independent Newspapers, publishers of upscale broadsheets. Each ended up with 46 percent, with the remaining shares in the hands of Spanish and Italian publishing groups and Mr. Whittam Smith.
Sales continued to slide, and the two principals, Mr. O'Reilly, and the head of the Mirror Group, David Montgomery, took different approaches to the problem. Mr. Montgomery wanted to make further cuts in the editorial budget and take the paper into the middle market dominated by the tabloid Daily Mail, while Mr. O'Reilly favored aiming it higher and feared the effect of further reductions in financing.
The paper's editor, Andrew Marr, ordered up a stylish redesign opposed by Mr. Montgomery, who ordered a reduction in its promotional budget and other cutbacks. In January, Mr. Marr, a cerebral and literate man who is a favorite of Mr. O'Reilly, refused to carry out the order and was dismissed. Rosie Boycott, already running The Sunday Independent, was made editor of the daily, too, and she quickly undid Mr. Marr's redesign and promised a livelier read.
Mr. O'Reilly then made his move, buying out his partners for $49.5 million and inviting Mr. Marr back as editor in chief, running the editorial and opinion pages. Ms. Boycott was named the editor of the news and feature pages. In a letter to readers in Friday's issue, Mr. Marr wrote: "Rosie Boycott and I have been told in simple terms to make the paper steadily more intelligent and serious. During an era when most papers are dumbing down, it came as an unusual and exhilarating instruction. Further, we have been given some money to spend on journalists -- another happy surprise."
Asked why he should be considered different from other wealthy newspaper owners who meddle in their newsrooms, Mr. O'Reilly said: "Get a telephone and ring any of the 200 papers we have around the world, The New Zealand Herald, The Cape Times, The Johannesburg Star, Diario in Portugal and ask, 'Has he ever interfered, has he ever phoned and talked to you ?' and you will get a 100 percent response. Not that I don't have the right to do it; it's an entirely valid thing for a proprietor to do, but it simply is not applicable to me. I don't do it."
He said that he was not promising any "quick fixes" and that he thought his plan to restore The Independent would take three to five years. If he can get the circulation of the daily up to 250,000 and the Sunday to 300,000, he said, the papers would be "modestly profitable."
Mr. O'Reilly, who will step down next month as chief executive of Heinz and become the company's chairman, disputed British news reports that it had been his "dream" to become a publisher in Britain. "This is not a trophy purchase," he said.
"The London market is the centerpiece of a great deal of both political and newspaper activity as far as printed words in English are concerned, and to own a major broadsheet, a quality paper at the top end of one of the most visible markets in the world has a halo effect on Independent Newspapers and its claim to be a truly independent newspaper group," Mr. O'Reilly said.
He compared his belief in hands-off proprietorship to that of the last Irishman to become a London press baron, Brendan Bracken, who once held a controlling interest in The Economist and The Financial Times. Mr. O'Reilly recalled a time when the editor then, Gordon Newton, placed a call to Lord Bracken. "He talked at some length about some problem he had at the paper, and Bracken answered by saying, 'Are you the editor of the FT?' Then he hung up."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Rosie Boycott, The Independent's editor for news and features, and Andrew Marr, the paper's editor in chief. (Andrew Buurman); Anthony J. F. O'Reilly has taken control of The Independent. (Tony Andrews/FT Pictures & Graphics)(pg. D7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HNZ (NYSE) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311941 MAYONNAISE, DRESSING & OTHER PREPARED SAUCE MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (72%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (72%); SIC2035 PICKLED FRUITS & VEGETABLES, VEGETABLE SAUCES & SEASONINGS, & SALAD DRESSINGS (72%); SIC2033 CANNED FRUITS, VEGETABLES, PRESERVES, JAMS, & JELLIES (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRELAND (88%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); AUSTRALIA (77%); BAHAMAS (75%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (72%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: DUBLIN, IRELAND (72%); LONDON, ENGLAND (58%); 

COMPANY: INDEPENDENT (BRITISH NEWSPAPER); INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPERS LTD H J HEINZ CO (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: INDEPENDENT (BRITISH NEWSPAPER); INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPERS LTD

GEOGRAPHIC: GREAT BRITAIN; UNITED KINGDOM (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRELAND (88%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); AUSTRALIA (77%); BAHAMAS (75%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (72%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (72%); LONDON, ENGLAND (58%); 

SUBJECT: NEWSPAPERS; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (78%); PUBLISHING (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); WRITERS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); GOVERNORS (68%); BOOK PUBLISHING (62%); 

PERSON: HOGE, WARREN; O'REILLY, ANTHONY J F; MARR, ANDREW; BOYCOTT, ROSIE KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1998



354 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 16, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1032 words

HEADLINE: Aetna Deal for New York Life's Health Unit Is Expected Today

BYLINE: By JOSEPH B. TREASTER 

 BODY:
Aetna Inc., the giant health insurer, is expected to announce today that it is buying the health care business of the New York Life Insurance Company for $1.05 billion in cash.
Reflecting some of the negotiating that has gone into the deal and some of the uncertainties in the health care business, Aetna has agreed to pay New York Life as much as $300 million more if the unit, NYLCare Health Plans, meets certain growth targets in the next two years, people close to the transaction said. 
The deal would significantly increase Aetna's market share in metropolitan New York, in the Washington-Baltimore area and in Texas. It would also enable New York Life to concentrate on the sale of life insurance and annuities and on strengthening its money management businesses, including the Mainstay mutual funds.
"This should work out well for both sides," said Kenneth S. Abramowitz, an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Company. "Aetna will be acquiring more regional strength and more management talent. And New York Life will be getting some funds it can immediately use in its core businesses."
Spokesmen for Aetna and New York Life said company policy forbade them from discussing reports of pending transactions. Aetna has been negotiating since late last year to buy NYLCare, which provides health insurance for 2.2 million people, including 1.5 million under managed care. Aetna has 13.7 million health insurance customers.
The merger is not expected to have an immediate effect on costs, benefits or physician relationships for customers of the two companies. Eventually, it should provide a wider choice of physicians.
New York Life is following the lead of several other big life insurers in selling health care businesses in the last few years. Health insurers are buying these companies to gain market share, which gives them leverage in negotiating better prices with doctors and hospitals. And the life insurers are happy to be able to focus on selling life insurance and other financial services.
Since becoming the chief executive of New York Life last April, Sy Sternberg has been painting a picture of growth through acquisition for his company, the nation's fourth-largest life insurer, and analysts said yesterday that they expected him to use the proceeds from the sale of NYLCare and other money he has been accumulating to carry out those plans.
The analysts said they thought Mr. Sternberg was looking at life insurance and mutual fund companies in the United States and abroad. While he might buy a company for $1 billion or so, the analysts said, it would not be surprising to see a series of acquisitions in the range of $200 million to $300 million.
Aetna, which had sold its property and casualty business and is looking for a buyer for its individual life insurance unit, became one of the nation's biggest health insurers with the purchase in 1996 of U.S. Healthcare for $8.2 billion. Richard L. Huber, chief executive of Aetna, has told analysts to expect further acquisitions, particularly of companies like NYLCare that could offer large concentrations of managed-care customers in fast-growing regions like the Southwest and the Atlantic Seaboard.
In metropolitan New York, including New Jersey and Connecticut, NYLCare has about 146,000 managed care customers, which would give Aetna 1.5 million customers in the region. In Texas, one of NYLCare's strongest markets, it has 634,000 managed-care customers compared with 157,000 for Aetna, giving a merged company 791,000. In another main market, the Washington-Baltimore area, NYLCare has 477,000 managed-care customers, which would be combined with Aetna's 176,000 to give a combined company 653,000.
Because New York Life is formally owned by its policyholders and is not required to disclose as much financial detail as publicly traded companies, analysts said it was difficult to evaluate the price Aetna was expected to pay for NYLCare. But they said that with health care companies struggling for profits, sale prices have been much lower since Aetna paid the equivalent of about $2,000 per health plan member when it bought U.S. Healthcare.
While U.S. Healthcare had been turning good profits, NYLCare just about broke even in 1996 and it lost about $30 million on revenue of $3 billion last year. Still, analysts said NYLCare was clearly a potential money maker when coupled with Aetna's huge operations.
"Strategically this makes sense," said Peter Patrino, an insurance industry analyst with the Duff & Phelps Credit Rating Company in Chicago. "The health insurance companies that are going to succeed are the ones that have the large-scale economies to offer the best price and the top level of service."
Even so, analysts say melding NYLCare with Aetna may prove challenging, especially in light of the difficulties Aetna has had in absorbing U.S. Healthcare. Third-quarter earnings for Aetna, for example, were 16 percent below the consensus estimate on Wall Street. Part of the problem was that in the course of integration, Aetna had lost track of rising health claim costs.
But Douglas Meyer, another Duff & Phelps insurance analyst, said most of the Aetna-U.S. Healthcare merger had been completed and "the hope is they've learned some of the pitfalls and things they need to be wary of" as they take on NYLCare.
One person close to Aetna said the company had, indeed, learned some lessons and planned to merge the NYLCare business "much more gradually," beginning with the smaller, more manageable operations in states like Illinois, Delaware, Washington and Maine. Aetna plans to operate the two largest segments of NYLCare's business -- those in Texas and in the Washington-Baltimore area -- separately for the first two years, partly because they will be harder to blend. It will also be easier to follow the performance of the acquired company in calculating how much of the additional $300 million goes to New York Life.
Aetna was advised in the transaction by Wasserstein Perella & Company and Davis Polk & Wardwell. The advisers for New York Life were Morgan Stanley, Dean Witter, Discover & Company and Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AET (NYSE) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (98%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (98%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (98%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (96%); NAICS525920 TRUSTS, ESTATES & AGENCY ACCOUNTS (69%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (69%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (77%); 

CITY: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: AETNA INC; NYLCARE HEALTH PLANS; NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE CO; US HEALTHCARE AETNA INC (98%); NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE CO (96%); SANFORD C BERNSTEIN & CO LLP (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: AETNA INC; NYLCARE HEALTH PLANS; NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE CO; US HEALTHCARE

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (77%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; HEALTH INSURANCE HEALTH INSURANCE (92%); ACQUISITIONS (90%); INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); LIFE INSURANCE (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (88%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (87%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); MERGERS (77%); MARKET SHARE (75%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (74%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); EXECUTIVES (68%); 

PERSON: TREASTER, JOSEPH B SEYMOUR G STERNBERG (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1998



355 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 16, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 622 words

HEADLINE: Editorial Observer;
'Primary Colors': Hollywood Offers an Apology

BYLINE: By ELEANOR RANDOLPH 

 BODY:
When the book "Primary Colors" appeared in early 1996, it seemed like a sleazy parody of President Clinton's 1992 campaign. Now, here comes the movie "Primary Colors," and suddenly it feels like an apology.
The story line has not changed much, as adapted by the director Mike Nichols and his longtime teammate Elaine May. It is our political world that has changed, not merely in the last two years, but in the last two months. With news of a Presidential intern boasting about sex in the Oval Office and a prosecutor veering from real to surreal in his pursuit of Clinton wrongdoing, Americans cannot help being politically distracted. President Clinton's lofty speeches about education, Social Security and the Asian economy fall on ears now pricked for innuendo, eyes focused on the small signs of personal distress. And then, there are the jokes. Every locker-room knee slapper has been recycled in the last few months to include our President. 
 So a movie that might have appeared to be in extremely bad taste in December is suddenly a sad lesson in modern politics by March. That lesson, boiled down a bit, is that it is not a good idea to expect a totally decent human being underneath a splendid politician. The passions, the rages, the pettiness, the grand appeal to history, they are all part of the same imperfect package.
To drive home this point, even the humble doughnut takes on higher symbolism. John Travolta, in his role as the barely fictional governor of Arkansas, Jack Stanton, does a good imitation of the real President, his accent, his petulant lower lip, even the little sashay as the President struts away from some political victory. So, if President Clinton is also known as a man who likes his food jumbo, Mr. Travolta does a good glutton, and when Governor Stanton tucks into an oversized cruller, it is not a pretty sight. The sugar cakes his lips as he talks, making some point that is lost under the crystalline flakes drifting onto his midriff. We wince, gag even, at the combination of sugar, fat and philosopher king.
That counterpoint of the exalted and the gross, in fact, seems to be the movie's most basic point. It serves to remind us that our politicians are people and that even the best were never ideal. Franklin Roosevelt was a rascal. So was Harry Truman. Even President Eisenhower had imperfections that went far beyond his golf swing.
With Matt Drudge and the media "scorps," as the Stanton team refers to the press corps, we know more about Presidential defects in real time instead of a few decades later. Details are not sifted and mulled over by historians so much as they are handed out raw to the American public. We have to do the sifting and mulling now for ourselves.
That next step, of course, is more difficult, and this movie could not manage to sort out something that is far more complicated and subtle than the basic primary color chart offered on the screen. Now that we know too much about every candidate's "character," how do we figure out which sins are peccadilloes and which are deep human flaws? Where do we give the candidate a break? A sideline romance? A shady stock deal? How does a weakness of the flesh compare with a weakness of the will to govern?
The movie, of course, does little more than hint at these bigger questions. After all, this is Hollywood, where larger thoughts have been known to provoke smaller profits. No matter. "Primary Colors" will probably get its public laughs in the movie houses and its private salutes from the White House. Jack Stanton is a long way from being a good person, but by the end of the movie, the audience has been seduced into thinking that he's about as good as we'll get in today's Oval Office.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TITLE: PRIMARY COLORS (MOVIE)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (74%); ATHLETES (71%); HISTORY (65%); GOLF (60%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); RANDOLPH, ELEANOR; LEWINSKY, MONICA S BILL CLINTON (90%); MIKE NICHOLS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1998



356 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 16, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 304 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Policy Held Hostage

 BODY:
House Republican leaders flaunt their disregard for America's broader interests by letting anti-abortion crusaders hold up funding for the International Monetary Fund and the United Nations. The money is being held hostage to an obnoxious amendment by Representative Christopher Smith of New Jersey that would block American financing of any foreign group lobbying for less restrictive abortion laws abroad. President Clinton rightly threatens to veto any bill with the Smith language.
A similar ploy by Mr. Smith blocked I.M.F. and U.N. funding measures last fall. Speaker Newt Gingrich should understand that I.M.F. and U.N. payments are too vital to American interests to be ensnarled in abortion politics and ought to let an unencumbered bill pass the House. 
 The $18 billion for the I.M.F. is meant to replenish its reserves after the recent bailouts of Thailand, South Korea and Indonesia. Asia's financial crisis is not over, and the fund may need the money in the coming months. America's trade interests and even the health of the economy could be jeopardized by delaying this funding.
The nearly $1 billion for the U.N. would pay off most of America's debt to the world organization. For years, Congress has withheld some of America's dues to leverage reforms at the U.N. Many of those changes have now been adopted under the leadership of Kofi Annan, the new Secretary General. Other countries have had to make up for the loss of American money, undermining Washington's bargaining power in the U.N. If the back dues remain unpaid, the United States will lose its voting rights in the General Assembly next year, an embarrassment for the nation that led the effort to create the United Nations half a century ago. Abortion politics has no place in determining America's role in the U.N. and the I.M.F.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); INDONESIA (79%); ASIA (79%); THAILAND (69%); 

COMPANY: F IS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (92%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (92%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (99%); INDONESIA (79%); ASIA (79%); THAILAND (69%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; ABORTION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; VETOES (US) INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); LEGISLATION (90%); HOSTAGE TAKING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); VETO (90%); ABORTION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); POLITICS (89%); BAILOUTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); 

PERSON: SMITH, CHRISTOPHER (REPR); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) CHRIS SMITH (79%); BILL CLINTON (73%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1998



357 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 16, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 938 words

HEADLINE: Seoul Journal;
Korea Deflated, but a Diplomat's Hopes Are High

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF 

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea

 BODY:
Last year, Stephen W. Bosworth agreed to be the American Ambassador to a booming industrialized nation with a single dominant political party.
Now Mr. Bosworth has taken up his duties in what seems quite a different country. South Korea's economy popped in November, just as Mr. Bosworth arrived, and it is now as limp as a burst balloon. Meanwhile, a former political prisoner named Kim Dae Jung has just been inaugurated as President and is promising sweeping change. 
 The vast uncertainties about Korea's future give an ambassador here unusual leeway, and that prospect helped lure Mr. Bosworth, 58, out of diplomatic retirement to take the job (although it seems that the tennis court on the grounds of the Ambassador's residence here played a supporting role).
"Because of the nature of the relationship, you have the opportunity to have an influence that is not often true elsewhere," Mr. Bosworth said. "This is one of the three or four embassies in the world where you really have an opportunity to make a difference."
Mr. Bosworth and his wife, Christine -- who, he says, persuaded him to take the job when he was initially reluctant -- are now unpacking their furniture in the Ambassador's residence (and watching the weather for the beginning of tennis season). Mrs. Bosworth, a formidable cook with 200 cookbooks to unpack, is planning a good deal of entertaining and is also writing a book about the role of food and entertainment in diplomacy.
A Michigan native, whom his wife describes teasingly as "so Midwest," Mr. Bosworth attended Dartmouth -- where he is now chairman of the board of trustees -- and then faced a key career choice. After some debate, he turned down law school and joined the Foreign Service.
Why?
"I was broke."
Presumably expressing his motivations in more eloquent terms at the time, he quickly impressed his bosses. By the age of 38, he was the Ambassador to Tunisia, one of the youngest career diplomats ever appointed to an ambassadorship in American history. Later he served as Ambassador to the Philippines in the 1980's during the "people power" uprising that ousted Ferdinand E. Marcos, but Mr. Bosworth quit the State Department in 1987 to move to the private sector.
Why?
"I was broke again."
In 1995, his finances apparently remedied, Mr. Bosworth returned to diplomacy as head of a consortium to provide energy to North Korea in exchange for its dismantling its nuclear program. That led to an interest in Korea, and to a call from the White House last year asking if he would like to be Ambassador.
President Kim, who by all accounts has an excellent relationship with Mr. Bosworth, was inaugurated on Feb. 25 and is now aiming to improve relations with North Korea. This is an area of special interest to Mr. Bosworth, for he is the first American Ambassador to be appointed here with experience visiting and dealing with the Government in the North.
"The fact that he's been to North Korea, that he's dealt with the North Koreans, gives him a whole new dimension which is going to stand him in good stead," said Donald P. Gregg, a former American Ambassador to South Korea.
In many countries, American ambassadors have arguably been victims of improvements in telecommunications. They still get nice homes and cars with flags, but they are sometimes reduced to delivering messages that are formulated in Washington -- or, worse, plaintively reading copies of messages transmitted by other channels.
Korea, however, has been an exception. James T. Laney, Mr. Bosworth's predecessor, took advantage of uncertainties in Washington to promote an American policy of engagement toward North Korea. He got away with making policy rather than carrying it out.
Mr. Bosworth is not a longtime Korea buff like Mr. Laney, and he does not speak Korean. On the other hand, Mr. Bosworth does speak economics.
While the most prestigious postings for young diplomats are as political officers, Mr. Bosworth rose as an economics officer. He later took graduate-level courses in economics, and his background has won him praise from Koreans in the Government.
"He's an excellent Ambassador, and especially in a time of economic crisis to have somebody well versed in economics is a great plus," said You Jong Keun, the economic adviser to President Kim. "He's very well respected."
The same could not be said of the American Embassy's economic work during the fall. The embassy appeared to be well behind private commentators and analysts in anticipating the crisis, and some in Washington thought its economic reporting was wildly insufficient. Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin and other top economic officials are said to have been greatly relieved when Mr. Bosworth arrived to take charge.
The problem apparently was that American diplomats and military intelligence experts in Seoul are first-rate in monitoring North Korean troop movements but much less attuned to capital flows. Mr. Bosworth has long argued that embassies need to re-orient themselves to pay more attention to economics, and since becoming Ambassador he has allocated more embassy resources to the economic work.
"There has always been a feeling in the State Department and Foreign Service that economics officers were not quite the creme de la creme, that what you really wanted to be was a political officer carrying diplomatic notes to the Foreign Ministry and making demarches," Mr. Bosworth said.
He added, "I think it's a justifiable criticism, though I don't know quite what you do about it, that the State Department does not have enough first-rate economic talent."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Stephen W. Bosworth, 58, America's new Ambassador in Seoul, hopes this is a moment when a diplomat can really make a difference. (Nicholas D. Kristof/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); TUNISIA (79%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (79%); 

CITY: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH KOREA; UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); TUNISIA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; UNITED STATES FOREIGN SERVICE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (91%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (74%); TENNIS (69%); SPORTS (69%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (65%); HISTORY (60%); 

PERSON: BOSWORTH, STEPHEN W (AMB); KRISTOF, NICHOLAS D KIM DAE JUNG (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1998



358 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 16, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: Bill to Push Africa Trade Is Approved

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 15

 BODY:
In approving a broad trade bill with Africa last week, the House gave President Clinton an important carrot to bring on his trip to the continent later this month.
The legislation, which still needs Senate approval, promotes private United States investment for the 48 countries of sub-Saharan Africa, many of which are some of the poorest in the world. Nations are eligible for preferential treatment if they move toward democracy and free-market economies. 
 In many respects, the bill has more symbolic than substantive importance because trade with Africa is only a tiny fraction of the United States' total foreign commerce
But in a refrain repeatedly heard on the House floor, and one that Mr. Clinton will undoubtedly hammer home during his six-country visit that begins next Sunday, the bill's proponents say the measure underscores a fundamental shift in American relations with Africa that favors trade over aid.
"This legislation creates a reward system that insures those market reforms in Africa are more likely to continue," said Representative Doug Bereuter, a Nebraska Republican.
The bill allows duty-free and quota-free exports to the United States for 10 years, encourages the creation of free-trade zones, and creates a position in the office of the United States trade representative to focus on African issues.
It would encourage the Overseas Private Investment Corporation to set up two investment funds -- one $150 million and another for $500 million -- to stimulate private-sector and public works development.
Only countries demonstrating progress in adhering to human rights, a commitment to a free-market economy and a reduction of tariffs would be eligible. House aides said of the region's 48 countries, 6 to 8 might qualify now, including South Africa, Uganda, Ghana, Ethiopia, Botswana and the Ivory Coast.
The legislation would not affect the $700 million a year in American foreign assistance to Africa, an amount that has been dwindling steadily as Africa's strategic role in the post-cold-war world diminishes.
Africa received sporadic attention from the United States during Mr. Clinton's first term. But Hillary Rodham Clinton visited there in 1997, and the White House has been working with Congress since then on legislation to remove tariffs, particularly on textiles and apparel, for African countries that reduce trade barriers and promote private investment.
Mr. Clinton's 11-day visit includes stops in Ghana, Uganda, Rwanda, South Africa, Botswana and Senegal.
"When the President of the United States visits these countries, it not only sends a message of friendship, but also says to investors, the U.S. has an interest," Representative Charles B. Rangel, a New York Democrat and a main sponsor of the bill, said in an interview.
The vote in the House last Wednesday was 233 to 186, with 92 Democrats joining 141 Republicans in favor. Eighty-four Republicans, 101 Democrats and one independent opposed the bill.
It is unclear whether the Senate will act on the bill this year. Senator Richard Lugar, an Indiana Republican who is the bill's main sponsor in the Senate, said he was encouraged by the House vote.
No vote will happen before May, Senate aides said.
The House bill drew bipartisan support from lawmakers who emphasized that many of sub-Saharan African countries were moving toward the political and economic reforms that would qualify them for the new incentives.
Representative Newt Gingrich, the Speaker of the House, gave a rare floor speech in favor of the bill, saying it would promote jobs in the United States through more exports to Africa.
But the bill ran into opposition from some lawmakers, like Representative Jesse Jackson Jr., Democrat of Illinois, who expressed fear that the legislation would lead to the exploitation of African workers. Randall Robinson, president of TransAfrica, a Washington-based group that seeks to influence United States policy in Africa and the Caribbean, raised similar concerns.
Indeed, the vote divided the Congressional Black Caucus, whose members backed the bill by a vote of 24 to 12.
But African nations strongly supported the bill, and sent representatives to lobby for the measure.
"The legislation is drafted in such a way so as to allow African countries themselves to determine what should be the proper balance between foreign corporations and indigenous African economic interests," Roble Olhaye, Djibouti's Ambassador to the United States and the dean of African diplomats here, wrote in a letter to Mr. Robinson. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (67%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); AFRICA (97%); GHANA (92%); UGANDA (92%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (92%); BOTSWANA (92%); ETHIOPIA (79%); RWANDA (79%); COTE D'IVOIRE (79%); SENEGAL (79%); 

STATE: NEBRASKA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORP (67%); OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES TRADE REPRESENTATIVE (55%); OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORP (54%); OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORP (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES TRADE REPRESENTATIVE (55%); OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORP (54%); OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORP (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA; UNITED STATES (99%); AFRICA (97%); GHANA (92%); UGANDA (92%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (92%); BOTSWANA (92%); ETHIOPIA (79%); RWANDA (79%); COTE D'IVOIRE (79%); SENEGAL (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; FOREIGN AID; QUOTAS; FREE PORTS AND TRADING ZONES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (87%); INTERVIEWS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); POLITICS (78%); COLD WAR (77%); TRENDS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); HUMAN RIGHTS (64%); TEXTILES (60%); 

PERSON: SCHMITT, ERIC BILL CLINTON (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); CHARLES B RANGEL (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1998



359 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 16, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1865 words

HEADLINE: Fighting Over the Ugliest Wilderness;
Developer's Megamall Plan Forces Decision on Meadowlands' Future

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN 

DATELINE: CARLSTADT, N.J., March 13

 BODY:
For generations, travelers have usually rushed past the Meadowlands, barely acknowledging its long, flat marshes, the acres and acres of tall, brown reeds bowing low in the wind, the murky waters and, more recently, the unnatural peaks of former garbage dumps, the squat warehouses and vapid office parks.
It is here, in these forgotten badlands, where for decades only dump trucks, mobsters and the most determined muskrat trappers dared to go, that the Mills Corporation of Arlington, Va., plans to spend $1 billion to build the state's largest mall, Meadowlands Mills. It is to be a 2.1 million square foot compound of brand-name outlet stores and flashy entertainment venues accompanied by office towers and a 1,000-room hotel. 
 By any measure, it is a bold proposal, particularly in a state some already regard as the shopping mall capital of the Northeast. And because the mall would be in Bergen County, which has a blue-law ban, it could not open on Sundays. Undeterred, Mills, one of the most ambitious builders of megamalls in the world, is determined to push ahead with what would be its biggest project ever.
The location -- at the heart of the largest retail market in the country, just nine miles from midtown Manhattan -- could not be more perfect for Mills. The company, a publicly traded real estate investment trust, has generated billions in sales by taking outlet shopping from out-of-the-way places to the shadows of major cities across the United States, including Los Angeles, Miami, Dallas and Phoenix.
But some environmentalists see the meadows as the last great unprotected wilderness area in the New York region. Building the mall would require filling 206 acres of polluted but still federally protected wetlands, a move the environmentalists utterly oppose.
The fight over Meadowlands Mills is just one aspect of a larger, decadelong battle over the destiny of the Meadowlands as a whole. The Hackensack Meadowlands Development Commission, the state agency with zoning authority in the area, has proposed a "special area management plan" that, in essence, concedes that some development in the Meadowlands is inevitable. But the plan would limit the number of acres of wetlands that could be filled and developed and would require developers to pay for more than $800 million in environmental repairs.
For its part, the Mills Corporation says it would restore 380 acres of wetlands, more than any other developer under the commission's plan. "I think it's a wonderful opportunity," said Edward B. Vinson, the company's vice president for development: "To develop one-third and mitigate the balance and return the property to a true wetlands, functioning fresh water and brackish water wetlands, which has not existed on this site in 80 years."
Local environmental groups, however, say sacrificing some wetlands to save others is unprecedented and violates Federal environmental policy, which since the Bush Administration has mandated no net loss of wetlands. Until now, builders who obtain permits to fill wetlands have generally been required to create an equivalent amount of wetlands elsewhere.
"One of our biggest fears here is that this would set a national precedent that would essentially put public trust wetlands up for sale to finance other schemes," said Andrew J. Willner, director of New York-New Jersey Baykeeper, an environmental group, and one of the most vocal opponents of development in the Meadowlands. "We don't think the case law nor the moral code allows for that."
 
A Place Some Say Is Not Worth Saving
The standoff in the Meadowlands is unlike traditional feuds between developers and environmentalists. It is a dispute not over a tract of pristine natural territory but rather over a swath of some of the most highly polluted land in the country, a nasty mix of closed landfills, toxic waste sites and waterways fouled by garbage.
Developers argue that parts of the Meadowlands are so degraded they are not worth saving, and they point to the overwhelming presence of phragmites, the common brown reeds that grow where little else will and that choke out other life. But environmentalists note that the water quality in the Meadowlands has improved markedly since the garbage dumps were closed. Since 1970, when the Meadowlands hit its low point, the number of bird species has risen to more than 260 from fewer than 200, they say.
The wrangling continues as President Clinton has made wetlands preservation his top environmental priority. Last month, Mr. Clinton announced a five-year, $2.3 billion plan to combat water pollution, with a goal of restoring 100,000 acres of wetlands a year by 2005.
In recent weeks, national environmental groups have joined local organizations in sending letters to the White House urging protection of the Meadowlands. The Mills Corporation has already enlisted several heavyweight lobbyists in Trenton and in Washington, including Ann Richards, the former Governor of Texas, who was known to be pro-environment in a state where such causes often have little support.
Since last summer, the President's Council on Environmental Quality has been involved in trying to broker an agreement on the future of the Meadowlands. Officials said this week that they hoped to reach a deal within a month.
"This 10-year impasse over the environmental and economic issues not only diminishes confidence in the regulatory system but also threatens the wetlands themselves," said Bradley M. Campbell, associate director of the White House council, "because we lack any comprehensive constraints on wetlands fill in the district."
Wetlands are considered ecologically valuable because they shelter wildlife, act as a water filtration system and provide flood protection. Even the damaged Meadowlands plays these roles to varying degrees.
Under the Meadowlands Commission's plan, about 8,500 acres of remaining wetlands would be restored. The plan also includes complex provisions to compensate private landowners who would not be allowed to develop.
The commission says it fears that a ban on all construction, which the environmentalists would prefer, would result in lawsuits by private landowners. Under the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution, private land cannot be taken for public use without just compensation.
Commission officials said they saw little alternative but to allow some development.
"These are probably the most assaulted wetlands in an urban area anywhere in the world," said Anthony Scardino Jr., executive director of the commission. "How do you go about the process of cleaning it up? Where do you get the resources, the financial resources?"
Final approval of the plan requires the cooperation of many government agencies, including the commission, the State Department of Environmental Protection, the Army Corps of Engineers, the Federal Environmental Protection Agency, the United States Fish and Wildlife Service and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
Officials have been trying to decide how few acres could be filled and still allow enough development for the plan to remain economically viable. The commission's plan would also streamline the state and Federal reviews of developers' proposals.
"We have gone back to the drawing board to see if we could come up with a development program and an environmental improvement program and other benefits that would be acceptable to the stakeholders and ultimately achievable," said Joseph J. Seebode, chief of the regulatory branch of Army Corps of Engineers in the New York District. "We're not there yet."
 
Mastodons, Oysters, Farmers, Mobsters
To understand the problem requires a brief review of several millennia. The Meadowlands started as a vast glacial lake stretching roughly from Perth Amboy north across what is now the border of New Jersey and Rockland County, N. Y. The area was inhabited by mastodons. The lake began receding in 8000 B.C. and the metamorphosis of the Meadowlands was under way.
Its fate has always shifted with its inhabitants. Thousands of years ago, refuse left by people in the Meadowlands amounted to piles of oyster shells. Native tribes fished and hunted here. In the 1700's, Dutch and British colonists farmed salt hay and chopped cedar trees. More recently, industrialists built factories and heaped trash. Murderous mobsters dumped corpses.
By 1970 it had become one of the largest, most toxic dumping grounds in the world. Starting in 1974, the state built a huge sports complex with a football stadium, a horse racing track and an indoor basketball and hockey arena. From 1977 to 1997, the Corps of Engineers granted 34 permits for filling and developing wetlands in the region. The entire Meadowlands district, including the 750-acre sports complex, encompasses 32 square miles, making it larger than Manhattan.
The Hackensack Meadowlands Development Commission was created by state legislators in 1969 when the dumping situation seemed to be at its all-time worst. The goal was to create a single state agency and centralize authority over zoning and other planning matters for the whole Meadowlands, which stretches across parts of 14 municipalities in Bergen and Hudson counties.
Legislators gave the commission three contradictory missions: to protect nature, to provide for orderly development and to provide space for the disposal of solid waste.
For the last decade the commission's main objective has been pushing its plan to chart the course of the Meadowlands for the next century. And there is a real chance that the debate will be resolved soon, officials say.
One obstacle to the Meadowlands Mills project has been surmounted. Carlstadt, the site of the proposed mall, now supports the plans after winning several concessions from Mills, including elimination of plans for housing.
"My feeling is this company owns that property and they are going to develop it and we got the best deal we could out of it," said Buddy Davis, a Councilman. Carlstadt stands to gain millions of dollars in tax revenues from Meadowlands Mills, which will also generate 2,500 construction jobs and about 9,000 permanent jobs once completed. A decision from the Army Corps of Engineers on the Mills project is expected by the end of the year.
Mills already operates some of the most popular malls in the country, including Potomac Mills in Prince William County, Va., which attracts more visitors annually than Colonial Williamsburg, and Ontario Mills, about 40 miles east of Los Angeles, which is rivaling Disneyland.
For designers and department stores, outlets offer the chance to appeal to more shoppers and to sell past seasons' styles. Retail financial analysts say outlets and their parent stores are complementary, not competitive, even when they are just a few miles apart.
Market researchers say that Meadowlands Mills would serve an existing market about twice as large as that for the other Mills projects. "At the Meadowlands, the density is at your front doorstep," said Mr. Vinson, the company's vice president for development. He added, "This is not a development program for the faint of heart."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Egrets, shown near the mall site, are among 260 species of birds in the Meadowlands. The proposed site of a $1 billion mall in Carlstadt, N.J. "These are probably the most assaulted wetlands in an urban area anywhere in the world," said Anthony Scardino Jr., head of the Hackensack Meadowlands Development Commission. (Photographs by Keith Meyers/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 
Map showing the location of the proposed shopping mall in Carlstadt, N.J.: The open-space zoning plan of the 14-town agency that controls the Meadowlands. (pg. B1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLS (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (73%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (77%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: MILLS CORP MILLS CORP (73%); HACKENSACK MEADOWLANDS DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: MILLS CORP HACKENSACK MEADOWLANDS DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEADOWLANDS (NJ); CARLSTADT (NJ); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (77%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SHOPPING CENTERS; WETLANDS; ZONING RETAILERS (90%); RETAIL CONSTRUCTION (90%); ZONING (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); WETLANDS (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (86%); REAL ESTATE (76%); RETAIL PROPERTY (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (72%); LANDFILLS (72%); ORGANIZED CRIME (71%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (70%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (69%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (65%); LAND RECLAMATION (64%); WILDERNESS (63%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (50%); 

PERSON: HERSZENHORN, DAVID M JOHN MAJOR (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1998



360 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 16, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1121 words

HEADLINE: Giuliani and Council Want to Cut a Tax, but Not the Same One

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI 

 BODY:
With New York City government awash in cash for the second year in a row, the talk in City Hall revolves around cutting taxes. The question is which one to cut.
Peter F. Vallone, the Speaker of the City Council, says that a cut in the city's personal income tax will put more money in people's pockets. Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani prefers to eliminate the sales tax on clothing. 
 Those differences are coming into focus as the City Council prepares to respond later this month to Mr. Giuliani's preliminary budget, setting off negotiations that should lead to a final budget in June. Despite the disagreement, the consensus in City Hall that money should be returned to taxpayers reflects how much things have changed in a city that in a more liberal era would have used budget surpluses to finance popular programs.
The Mayor has been a tireless cheerleader for the tax cut on clothing, crisscrossing the city during tax-free weeks to shop in store after store. The Speaker, who declared his candidacy for governor last week and is sharpening the themes of his campaign, is hoping to link himself with tax cuts.
Mr. Vallone's aides said the Council's response to the Mayor's budget would call for changing the city's income-tax structure, in keeping with the Speaker's message that, under Gov. George E. Pataki, working-class and middle-class New Yorkers have not shared fully in the national economic recovery. They said the Council would also recommend that a 12.5 percent surcharge on the city's personal income tax, approved in 1990 to help the city balance its books and reauthorized in 1991 to help hire thousands of new police officers, should be allowed to expire at the end of the year.
"It's time now to give a break back," Mr. Vallone said last week. "And while we're doing it, I don't think that this personal income tax is as progressive as it should be. It hits the middle class a little bit too hard."
Mr. Vallone's aides said they were willing to compromise on the size of the personal income tax cut, so long as the Speaker could claim to have cut taxes significantly. If the surcharge were eliminated, the city would lose about $190 million in revenue next year and $530 million the year after that.
To a family of four with a $60,000 annual income, the elimination of the surcharge would yield a savings of $184 a year, Thomas L. McMahon, the City Council's finance director, said. The Speaker's proposal to overhaul personal income tax rates would increase that savings to $325 a year. The change in tax rates, which would lead to savings for middle-income families but to higher taxes for wealthier ones, would not cost the city revenue, Mr. McMahon said.
In January 1996, Mr. Giuliani himself suggested letting the surcharge expire, but quickly abandoned that idea. Now, his aides say that its elimination would cause a revenue loss that would worsen future budget gaps. Randy M. Mastro, the Deputy Mayor for operations, said the Mayor favored targeted tax cuts, like the 8.25 percent one on clothes, consisting of 4 percent in state tax, 4 percent in city tax and a 0.25 percent tax assessed by the Metropolitan Transportation Authority. Albany has approved the elimination of the 4 percent state tax on clothes under $100, to take effect on Dec. 1, 1999. The change would allow local governments to eliminate their own sales taxes -- usually 4 percent.
But the Giuliani administration is pressing to remove city taxes on all clothes, beginning this December. If the Mayor gets his wish in Albany, the city will lose $176 million in revenue next year and $312 million the following year. The average saving per household would be $103, according to the Mayor's projection. "The Mayor has implemented tax cuts that directly stimulate the local economy," Mr. Mastro said. "A personal income tax cut has a less direct effect."
Charles Millard, the Mayor's senior economic adviser, said that the elimination of the tax on clothing that costs under $500 would eventually create 20,000 jobs and bring the city hundreds of millions of dollars in new tax revenue. The Independent Budget Office, a city-financed watchdog agency, said that a tax cut on clothes would increase sales, though it would not create such a high number of jobs.
Charles Brescher, the research director for the Citizens Budget Commission, an independent fiscal monitor, said his organization preferred to eliminate the surcharge instead of the sales tax. The city's personal income tax is much higher than those of other municipalities, whereas the sales tax difference is not so great, Mr. Brescher said.
Both Mr. Vallone and Mr. Giuliani agree that the city cannot afford to cut both taxes. They also agree that most of this year's projected budget surplus -- an estimated $1.6 billion -- should be set aside to close future budget gaps. But the politics of taxation are influencing the rhythm of budget negotiations this year, just one sign of how the workings of city government are becoming linked to the gubernatorial race.
By calling for deep tax cuts, Mr. Vallone is also seeking to inoculate himself against inevitable charges in a race that he is a tax-and-spend Democrat, his aides said. It was Mr. Vallone who endorsed Mayor David N. Dinkins's surcharge proposal in 1990. What is more, they hope to draw a sharp contrast between Mr. Vallone and the Republican incumbent, Mr. Pataki, whose recently proposed state budget would increase spending by 7.6 percent.
Mr. Vallone said he is not opposed to cutting the sales tax on clothes. Indeed, his aides said that cutting the tax would be politically more popular than letting the surcharge expire. But they said that the Mayor had become so identified with the policy that it would be hard for the Speaker to share any credit in its elimination.
The Council has seized on the surcharge, partly because it is in the unusual position of having leverage over the Mayor in this particular case. Albany has final say over taxes. But in practice, the surcharge will likely die at the end of the year unless Mr. Vallone agrees with the Mayor to renew it.
What is more, the Speaker's aides said their position was strengthened by the fact that last year the State Legislature rejected a proposal to cut the tax on clothing under $500. This year, they said, elections made it even less likely that lawmakers from outside the city would endorse a measure that would draw shoppers from the suburbs to New York City.
But given the popularity of tax cuts in New York, both sides of City Hall are reluctant to criticize the other side's proposal. "There may be differences of views about how to cut taxes, but there's unanimity that we should," Mr. Mastro said.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "DIFFERENT VIEWS -- Where to Cut Taxes"
The proposal by Peter F. Vallone, the Speaker of the City Council, to eliminate the 12.5 percent surcharge on the personal income tax would cost the city $190 million next year and $530 million in 2000. Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's proposal to eliminate the sales tax on clothing would save households an average of $103, but the city would lose $176 million in 1999 and $312 million in 2000. Chart compares Mr. Vallone's estimated tax savings for a family of four in 1999 with the current 1999 tax with income-tax surcharge. (Sources: City Council Finance Division; Mayor's Office of Management and Budget)(pg. B5)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; INCOME TAX; SALES TAX; APPAREL; ELECTION ISSUES; GOVERNORS (US); ELECTIONS CITIES (94%); CITY GOVERNMENT (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (93%); BUDGETS (92%); TAX RELIEF (90%); SALES TAX (90%); TAX LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); FAMILY (77%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (75%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (73%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (68%); 

PERSON: ONISHI, NORIMITSU; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); VALLONE, PETER F (SPEAKER) RUDY GIULIANI (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1998



361 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 16, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1274 words

HEADLINE: States Appear Ready to Raise Their Spending on Education

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN 

 BODY:
Lawmakers in many states are negotiating budgets that include substantial increases in education spending in response to a strong economy, widespread concern about the quality of public schools and, in some cases, court decisions requiring new systems of school financing.
With these increases, states will likely shoulder a larger share of overall education financing, while local districts will bear a smaller share. 
 "In state of the state addresses, we heard a strong interest in education," said Kathy Christie of the Education Commission of the States, a nonprofit group that tracks education issues. "There was a lot of talk about making technology available in schools, reducing class sizes and doing more early childhood education. And thanks to the economy, more states have surpluses this year."
While it is too soon to know exactly where the numbers will come out, David Liebschutz, associate director of the Center for the Study of the States in Albany, estimated that state education spending would increase 5 percent to 7 percent in the next fiscal year.
He and others said, however, that what is happening is less an increase in overall education spending, than the states taking over a greater share of school budgets from the local districts.
"You have the states, with these big surpluses this year, riding in on their white horses to rescue the local districts, and offer property tax relief, and taking on a bigger share of the education budget," Mr. Liebschutz said. "That may make taxpayers happy, but it has some real long-term risks for the schools."
The most serious danger is that in a bad economy, state revenues drop far more precipitously than property taxes, the most common source of local financing. So schools dependent mostly on state money would face large budget cuts. And there are many competitors for the state dollars, so if the political winds shift, and the current enthusiasm for education gives way to concern about crime or health, school spending could suffer.
But there are potential benefits, too. Increased state involvement in education can pave the way for greater equity: Generally, the larger the share of school budgets the state controls, the less disparity there is between rich districts and poor ones.
"Over all, I think it's a good thing for states to carry more of the burden, both for equity reasons and because it's appropriate for the states to be out in front as we move to more emphasis on standards and assessment," said Terry Whitney, a senior policy specialist with the National Conference of State Legislatures.
Until the mid-1970's, the lion's share of school money came from local property taxes. But that shifted as many states began to face legal challenges to their systems of financing education. Critics said the states discriminated against students from poor districts that could not raise as much revenue as rich districts, even if they imposed high tax rates.
In 1994-95, states provided 47 percent of all education spending; local districts, 46 percent, and the Federal Government, 7 percent. And next year, the state share will likely increase further.
Part of the proposed increase in state education spending, the largest single component of state budgets, is due to higher enrollment, since the number of students in public schools has grown steadily since the mid-1980's, and, at nearly 47 million, tops even the old baby boom records.
But per-pupil spending -- $6,564 last year, according to the U.S. Department of Education -- is rising as well. In recent years, overall per-pupil spending, on average, has risen 4 percent to 5 percent a year -- twice the rate of inflation.
Based on the proposed state budgets and enrollment projections, Mr. Liebschutz estimated that per-pupil spending in several of the largest states would grow substantially next year. In Illinois, where Gov. Jim Edgar has proposed raising education spending more than $600 million for fiscal 1999, per-pupil spending would increase 12 percent next year. The proposed increase in per-pupil spending would be 9 percent in New Jersey, 7 percent in Florida, 5 percent in Ohio and 4 percent in New York, Michigan and Pennsylvania.
"Education has definitely taken a priority in this year's state of the state messages and budget addresses," said Steven Murphy, director of the public finance department at Standard & Poor's. "It's easier than in the past to put money into schools, because there's more money in the coffers. When a state has a big surplus, there's pressure to do one of two things: cut taxes, or spend it on something most of the population benefits from. Since taxes haven't increased much in the last few years, there's not much pressure for cuts. And a whole lot of people care about education."
In New Jersey, which has been mired in school finance litigation for two decades, Governor Whitman swept into office four years ago pledging to cut taxes and did so -- and now she proposes a $540 million increase to local school districts.
"A lot of this is the economy, but a lot is demographics," Mr. Liebschutz said. "You have all the baby boomers with kids in school, and quite frankly, education is in vogue. The Presidential jawboning on education has proved to have some staying power, and it doesn't take a genius politician to know that if you've got elections coming up and a huge population worrying about their kids' schools, you spend money on schools. In states like Georgia, where the hiring of teachers has been a real bugaboo, raising teacher salaries has become a politically salable issue."
In Georgia, Gov. Zell Miller's proposed budget for fiscal 1999 includes nearly $200 million for education pay increases. In most states the proposed budget increases would go toward meat-and-potato education concerns like reducing class sizes and expanding kindergarten and pre-kindergarten programs.
But there are capital needs, too. In states with older schools, there is a push to rehabilitate crumbling buildings. In states where the population is growing fast, the struggle is to build enough schools to accommodate the baby boomlet -- and hire enough teachers to educate those children.
Almost everywhere, the rewiring of schools and purchasing of computers is a political and financial issue.
"In Iowa, they put together a fiber optics network and so the next question is upgrading all the electrical outlets and training the teachers," said Chris Pipho, of the Education Commission of the States. "But technology is a onetime expenditure. If you use your surplus on it, you're done. Reducing class size is harder, because it's expensive and once you start, you've got to keep going."
In several states, the pressure for increased education spending comes directly from the courts. The mechHanisms for school funding in more than a dozen states have been found unconstitutional because of disparities between rich and poor districts, and in several states, legislatures are scrambling to comply with court mandates to revamp their systems.
"New Hampshire, Colorado and Ohio and some others still have school finance litigation forcing them to do something," Mr. Pipho said. "One factor in where the numbers end up is what kind of legal settlements there are, and it's not clear where they'll come out. I've been watching the education budget process for a long time, and I think most of the budget proposals are going to come down before we get to the real numbers. But if there was ever a year to be optimistic, this is it, because the proposed numbers are coming in so high and so many states have surpluses."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF THE STATES EDUCATION COMMISSION OF THE STATES (57%); EDUCATION COMMISSION OF THE STATES (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF THE STATES EDUCATION COMMISSION OF THE STATES (57%); EDUCATION COMMISSION OF THE STATES (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; STATES (US); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; PROPERTY TAXES; TAXATION EDUCATION FUNDING (95%); BUDGETS (91%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); LITIGATION (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); TAX LAW (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); MAMMALS (76%); CHILDREN (73%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); TAX RELIEF (65%); 

PERSON: LEWIN, TAMAR; LIEBSCHUTZ, DAVID DAVID LIEBSCHUTZ (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1998



362 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 16, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1796 words

HEADLINE: SOUTH'S EMBRACE OF G.O.P. IS NEAR A TURNING POINT

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK 

DATELINE: ATLANTA, March 15

 BODY:
One by one, they have fallen. During the last three decades, each of the once solidly Democratic states of the old Confederacy have elected Republican governors; each, that is, except Georgia.
Now the Republicans have a chance -- a better than even chance, polls and political analysts say -- to complete the transformation. If they win this year's gubernatorial race in Georgia, Republicans can declare with some authority that their party, once held in contempt in the white South because of its associations with emancipation and Reconstruction, has become the dominant political force in the region. 
 "If the Republicans elect a governor in Georgia, I think the South is moving irrevocably and irreversibly toward being a one-party region," said Ralph Reed, the former executive director of the Christian Coalition and now a Republican political consultant based in the Atlanta suburbs.
The symbolically significant Georgia race, which Mr. Reed calls "the big enchilada," along with important gubernatorial campaigns in Florida, Alabama and Texas, make the South one of the critical battlegrounds of the 1998 election year.
Because governors and their political networks can give an enormous lift to their parties' Presidential nominees, the campaigns in those states are drawing intense interest from Vice President Al Gore and a host of prospective Republican candidates. And with several Southern states expected to gain Congressional seats in the reapportionment that will follow the 2000 Census, both parties are also deeply aware that the governors elected this year will hold veto power over redistricting plans.
"I'm looking for the tide to turn," said Gov. Roy Romer of Colorado, the chairman of the Democratic National Committee. "We've had some down times but I think now the economy is going our way and the package of issues are our issues, like education and child care. The Republican issues -- balancing the budget, smaller government, welfare, crime -- have been taken off the table."
If that is so, Republicans respond, it is only because Democrats have embraced conservative initiatives in an effort to slow the Republican advance. The Republican Party's breathtaking gains in the South, rooted largely in the rejection of Democratic positions on economics and race, played a major role in the party's takeover of Congress in 1994 and in the Democrats' efforts under President Clinton to reposition themselves toward the center.
The party's Southern strength today, particularly in statewide and Congressional elections, is virtually a mirror image of Democratic dominance as recently as 1980. Even in state legislatures, where Democratic power once seemed unassailable, Republicans have taken control of houses in several states.
Republicans today hold eight governorships in the 11 states of the old Confederacy, the same number that Democrats held in 1980. Republicans now have 15 of 22 United States Senate seats; Democrats held 16 in 1980. The Republican advantage in the House of Representatives, now 71 to 54, reverses a Democratic majority of 77 to 31 in 1980.
In 1980, Republicans held 17 percent of the state legislative seats in the South; now they hold 41 percent. While they did not control a single legislative chamber in 1990, they now control both houses of the Florida Legislature, the House of Representatives in North Carolina and South Carolina and the Senate in Texas and Virginia. They are within striking distance of taking several other houses.
The party's legislative gains are starting to have a tangible impact, particularly on social issues. Republican lawmakers in South Carolina last year beat back a call by their own Governor, David M. Beasley, a Republican, for removing the Confederate battle flag from atop the State Capitol. The Florida Senate last week voted to override a veto of a ban on late-term abortions by Gov. Lawton Chiles, a Democrat, completing the first successful override of a governor's veto in that state in 12 years.
The unified Republican support for bans on late-term abortions has helped smooth over differences within the party, both in the South and elsewhere, on divisive social issues like abortion, school prayer and gay rights, said Jim Nicholson, the chairman of the Republican National Committee.
"One of the things that's helped in the area of social conservatism is that people have really come together around this partial-birth abortion ban," Mr. Nicholson said. "It's given everybody a common place to go."
In the seven gubernatorial races in the South this year, no Democratic incumbent is running for re-election. Four of the five Republican incumbents are considered favorites to win re-election, and Republicans are favored in early polls to win the open seats now held by Democrats in Georgia and Florida.
There are seven races for United States Senate in the South this year. At the moment, Republican incumbents are favored in North Carolina, Georgia and Alabama; Democratic incumbents are favored in Louisiana, Florida and South Carolina, and the campaign in Arkansas to fill the seat of Senator Dale Bumpers, a Democrat who is retiring, is considered a tossup.
The only Republican Governor considered vulnerable is Fob James Jr. of Alabama, who has alienated his state's business community with his active support for school prayer and other conservative stands on social issues. While Mr. James is expected to receive a vigorous challenge from Lieut. Gov. Don Siegelman, a Democrat with solid financial backing, few political experts in Alabama bet against the incumbent right now.
If Republicans sweep this year's gubernatorial races, Gov. Jim Hunt of North Carolina, who won re-election easily last year, would become the lone Democratic head of state in the South.
In Tennessee, Mr. Gore's home state, the Democrats have yet to find a credible candidate to challenge the popular Republican incumbent, Gov. Don Sundquist. In Mississippi, the party has not fielded a candidate to run against a freshman Republican Congressman, Chip Pickering.
After primaries in Texas last Tuesday, a poll conducted by Scripps Howard and the University of Texas showed Gov. George W. Bush, a Republican, with a 46 percentage-point lead over the Democratic nominee, Garry Mauro, the state land commissioner. Mr. Bush has a Texas-size campaign bankroll of $13 million and has been endorsed by the Democratic lieutenant governor, Bob Bullock, the godfather of Mr. Mauro's daughter.
The state Republican chairwoman, Susan Weddington, predicted boastfully last week that there was a "strong possibility" that Republicans would sweep all 14 statewide elections in November.
Such unbridled optimism may later haunt Ms. Weddington, said several political scientists in Texas. But it is also clear, they said, that the only challenge this year for Mr. Bush is not to win, but to win by the kind of margin needed to maintain his position at the head of the pack of potential Republican Presidential candidates.
"The main worry he has at this point is not living up to expectations, a landslide figure," said Bruce Buchanan, a professor of government at the University of Texas at Austin.
In Georgia, the only state in the nation not to have elected a Republican governor this century, both parties have endured their share of turmoil long before the July 21 primaries.
The chances of the onetime Republican front-runner, Michael J. Bowers, a former Attorney General, were seriously wounded last year by his disclosure that he had had a 10-year affair with a woman who once worked for him. That revelation enticed Guy Millner, a wealthy businessman who narrowly lost previous campaigns for governor and United States senator, to enter the race.
On the Democratic side, the presumptive front-runner, Lieut. Gov. Pierre Howard, dropped out of the race last year, citing family concerns. Secretary of State Lewis Massey and State Representative Roy Barnes are now the leading contenders.
A Georgia State University poll published last week showed Mr. Millner defeating either Mr. Massey or Mr. Barnes by about 20 percentage points. But the Democrats dismissed those numbers as the product of Mr. Millner's name recognition from previous campaigns and of more than two months of unchallenged radio advertising.
Mr. Millner has used the advertising to endorse anti-crime and education programs initiated by Georgia's popular Democratic Governor, Zell Miller, who defeated Mr. Millner in 1990.
"I'm glad I'm not running against Zell Miller," Mr. Millner said. "He's been a successful and popular Governor. I want to build on his successes."
Mr. Massey, who was appointed by Mr. Miller, and Mr. Barnes, who lost a primary to him in 1990, also hope to trade on the Governor's formula for Democratic success in a Republican world.
"I think the reason the Democrats have been able to maintain a strong base in Georgia is because the Democratic Party has been the party of cutting taxes and being tough on crime and moving families off the welfare roles and improving education," said Mr. Massey, who is 35.
Mr. Barnes said: "The reason Democrats win in Georgia is that we've done a good job. We're the fastest growing state east of the Rockies and we've produced programs that click with the voters."
In neighboring Florida, the presumptive Republican nominee, Jeb Bush, was ahead of his most likely Democratic rival, Lieut. Gov. Buddy MacKay, by eight percentage points, according to a poll conducted last month by The New York Times Regional Newspapers Group. The Democrats have endured two months of divisive infighting after the party's caucus in the state House of Representatives removed a black member, Willie F. Logan, as its chairman.
Some black leaders are openly encouraging their followers to abandon the Democratic Party in retribution. Political scientists question whether Mr. MacKay or any Democrat can win a statewide election in Florida without unified and enthusiastic black support, particularly against a well-financed and experienced politician like Mr. Bush, Governor Bush's younger brother.
Those kinds of rifts provide a perfect opening for Republican strategists who have searched for ways to diversify their party in the South.
"Historically, the way the Republican Party has made its stand in the South has been through the subtext of being a white conservative party opposing a shrinking Democratic Party dominated by minorities, labor unions and the left," Mr. Reed said. "I think by the time this story is done being written you're going to see a new Republican Party that is still primarily white and that is fiscally and morally conservative, but that also is attempting to project an image of racial tolerance and moderation."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "KEEPING TRACK: The Lineup"
Republicans hope to consolidate their hold on Southern politics in 1998. In the case of the U.S. House state legislature, shading of map of Southern states indicates political party majorities in 1980, 1990, and 1998. (Sources: National Conference of State Legislators, Almanac of American Politics)(pg. A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (53%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (95%); SOUTHEAST USA (93%); ALABAMA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (53%); CHRISTIAN COALITION (56%); CHRISTIAN COALITION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) CHRISTIAN COALITION (56%); CHRISTIAN COALITION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; SOUTHERN STATES (US); FLORIDA; TEXAS; GEORGIA; ALABAMA; UNITED STATES (95%); GEORGIA, USA (95%); SOUTHEAST USA (93%); ALABAMA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; GOVERNORS (US); REAPPORTIONMENT; VETOES (US) GOVERNORS (93%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); REDISTRICTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); VETO (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (77%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); CENSUS (67%); BUDGETS (63%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (56%); WELFARE FRAUD (50%); 

PERSON: SACK, KEVIN BILL CLINTON (79%); AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1998



363 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 16, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: Gay Cleric Among nominees to Replace Newark Bishop

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN 

 BODY:
An openly gay cleric has been chosen as one of five nominees to succeed the Rt. Rev. John S. Spong as Bishop of the Episcopal Diocese of Newark, diocesan officials said yesterday. If elected eventually, he would be the first openly homosexual bishop of the 2.5 million-member Episcopal Church in America.
The gay nominee, the Rev. Gene Robinson, 50, has been a top official of the Diocese of New Hampshire for more than a decade, is a founder of and counselor for AIDS organizations and support groups for gay and lesbian youths, and has led racism-education projects and raised funds for low-income housing. 
 Mr. Robinson, who is Canon to the Ordinary of New Hampshire and executive secretary of the Province of New England, was on vacation and unavailable yesterday for comment on his selection by a committee that considered 70 candidates to succeed Bishop Spong, who is scheduled to retire in less than two years.
But in a telephone interview from Concord, Bishop Douglas Theuner of New Hampshire said of his executive assistant: "He has worked for me for nearly 12 years. His colleagues in New Hampshire have great confidence in him. He is a very worthy candidate, and I am delighted with his nomination."
In a statement to the diocesan nominating committee, Mr. Robinson noted that he was the divorced father of two daughters and lived in Weare, N.H., with a partner, Mark Andrew, a program manager for the New Hampshire Department of Health and Human Services.
Asked what risks he had taken for his faith, Mr. Robinson wrote: "I answered God's call to acknowledge myself as a gay man. My wife and I, in order to keep our wedding vow to 'honor each other in the name of God,' made the decision to let each other go. Risking the loss of my children and the exercise of my ordained ministry in the church was the biggest risk I've ever taken, but it left me with two unshakable things: my integrity and my God."
In a church long regarded as the most upper crust of America's denominations -- producing more Presidents, from George Washington to George Bush, than any other -- questions about homosexuality and the ordination of gay priests have been deeply divisive. Bishop Spong has led movements to bring blacks, women and homosexuals into the full life of his church, and the choice of successor is widely regarded as critical to the future of the diocese and the church.
Dale Gruner, a spokeswoman for the diocese, said yesterday that besides Mr. Robinson, the nominees were the Rev. Rosemari Sullivan, 51, Rector of St. Clement's Church in Alexandria, Va.; the Rev. Jack Croneberger, 59, rector of the Church of Atonement in Tenafly, N.J.; the Rev. Gray Temple Jr., 56, rector of St. Patrick's Church in Atlanta, and the Rev. Will Wauters, 48, chaplain of the private Lawrenceville School in New Jersey. The selections were posted on a diocesan Web site on Friday.
Ms. Sullivan, if elected, would be the sixth female bishop named to head a diocese. Mr. Croneberger has long been active in the church struggle over gay rights; he was a leader of the defense of a now-retired Bishop, Walter Righter, who ordained an openly gay man in 1990. Mr. Temple has led church dialogues on same-sex marriages and the ordination of homosexuals. Mr. Wauters, who has served ministries in New Jersey, California and Texas, was active in efforts to unionize farm workers and end gang violence, and served on a governor's council in Texas on work force and economic development.
The process of selecting a successor to Bishop Spong is to be lengthy and complex, Ms. Gruner noted. She said additional nominations could be made by a petition process before April 15. In June, a 600-member convention of clerics and lay leaders will be held to elect a successor, but the person selected must be approved by majorities of the standing committees and bishops of the 110 Episcopal dioceses across the nation.
The person selected would be consecrated Bishop Coadjutor on Nov. 21. The title confers the rank of top assistant to the Bishop with an automatic right of succession. Bishop Spong, long regarded as a maverick in his church, ignited a controversy in 1991 when he wrote a book and said that St. Paul, the apostle, was a "self-loathing and repressed gay male." He was elected Coadjutor in 1976 and became the Diocesan Bishop in 1979. He has said he will retire on Jan. 31, 2000.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Rev. Gene Robinson, 50, is one of five nominees. (Episcopal Diocese of Newark)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (50%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (91%); CONCORD, NH, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: ST CLEMENT VINEYARDS (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (50%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (91%); CONCORD, NH, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: EPISCOPAL CHURCH; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; HOMOSEXUALITY RELIGION (94%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (91%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); FUNDRAISING (77%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); AIDS & HIV (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (72%); RACE & RACISM (70%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (70%); PUBLIC HOUSING (70%); 

PERSON: ROBINSON, GENE (REV); MCFADDEN, ROBERT D; SPONG, JOHN S (BISHOP); SULLIVAN, ROSEMARI (REV); CRONEBERGER, JACK (REV); TEMPLE, GRAY JR (REV); WAUTERS, WILL (REV) GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1998



364 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 16, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 185 words

HEADLINE: United Nations Bill Is Bargain for U.S.;
A Plan on Kosovo

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Peter Maass ("It's Risky to Talk Tough on Kosovo," Op-Ed, March 10) claims that "it is far easier to be the world's conscience than to be the world's policeman." He argues that there are only two possible responses to the Serbian campaign against ethic Albanians in Kosovo, a Serb province. The United States can either take direct action through military and economic measures or it can engage in more talk. 
 Why not let the world's conscience do the job for the impotent policeman? The United States can weaken President Slobodan Milosevic of Serbia in one blow. It can delegitimize him by delivering intelligence of violations committed at his command in Bosnia to the international war crimes tribunal in The Hague.
If the international community really wants to promote respect for human rights in the former Yugoslavia, it should stop protecting Mr. Milosevic. Punishing war criminals may deter new acts of war in the Balkans.
 
BRAD K. BLITZ
Seaside, Calif., March 10, 1998
 
The writer is a lecturer in global studies at California State University, Monterey Bay.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: SERBIA (97%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); ALBANIA (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); NETHERLANDS (52%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (52%); 

COMPANY: MONTEREY BAY ONCOLOGY (55%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); SERBIA (97%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); ALBANIA (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); NETHERLANDS (52%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (52%); 

SUBJECT: MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (90%); WAR CRIMES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); CIVIL WAR (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); RELIGION (74%); WRITERS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); ETHICS (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS (67%); 

PERSON: BLITZ, BRAD K; MAASS, PETER SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1998



365 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 16, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 2088 words

HEADLINE: China's New Premier: Fast Riser Who Tamed Economy in Chaos

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM with SETH FAISON 

DATELINE: BEIJING, March 15

 BODY:
Zhu Rongji, who is expected to be chosen as Prime Minister of China on Tuesday, is a career Communist planner whose meteoric rise to power has been driven largely by the sheer force of his achievements.
In the last five years, as chief of economic policy, Mr. Zhu, 69, has steered the economy out of runaway inflation without stifling its growth, a record that would do the International Monetary Fund proud. 
 Well before the Asian financial crisis hit last year, Mr. Zhu (whose name is pronounced Joo Rong-JI) had applied bitter medicine to China, including denying loans to officials' pet projects.
By this year the annual rate of inflation had dropped to just 1 percent, from 24 percent in 1993. Mr. Zhu won the respect of other Chinese leaders and superlatives from Western business executives.
He will become head of China's Cabinet at a time when the world's most populous country is emerging as an economic and political heavyweight. He will serve under the President and Communist Party chief, Jiang Zemin, who remains No. 1 in the ruling circle.
By any measure, Mr. Zhu will face daunting tasks: remaking an economy still rooted in thousands of money-losing companies owned by the Government, salvaging banks that by outside standards are insolvent, reversing the calamitous pollution of air and water, finding work for tens of millions who once thought they had jobs for life and building a new system of social welfare from scratch -- just for starters.
As he takes on new economic and social issues, Mr. Zhu will also, for the first time, have direct responsibility for foreign policy questions like volatile relations with Taiwan and for China's stand on human rights issues, which has been much criticized in the West.
Perhaps the ultimate issue that will face Mr. Zhu in his five-year term is how the Communist Party can maintain control over a society that is becoming more complex and pluralistic by the day. Trained as an engineer and state planner, Mr. Zhu has so far betrayed no strong interest in democracy, only in a more efficient economy and party.
"I see him as a classic Leninist apparatchik," said David Shambaugh, an expert on Chinese politics at George Washington University. "But it is true that he is also a no-nonsense, tough bureaucrat who is very decisive."
The two sides of Mr. Zhu were shown during a speech he gave in 1995 to the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. Impressing the gathered business and financial leaders by speaking in English, he told them to "call me" if they had any problems in China. But when asked for a phone number, he became flustered and said, "That is a state secret," recalled a person who attended the meeting.
In a system that rewards conformity, where leaders typically retreat behind dogmatic cant, Mr. Zhu is famous for his frank talk, his sometimes brutal impatience with officials and his results-oriented manner.
That approach has gained him the admiration of ordinary Chinese people, as well as the begrudging regard of the sprawling bureaucracy he will head. Those who work under him refer to him as "the Boss."
 
Reforms Gain Him Foes in the Bureaucracy
But with his determined pursuit of economic cutbacks, and now his goal of slashing the bureaucracy, he has gained many enemies around the country, too, perhaps leaving him vulnerable should his magic touch with the economy fail him.
Mr. Zhu is replacing Li Peng, who is moving to another senior position after serving the two five-year terms as Prime Minister allowed by China's Constitution. Chinese people often compare Mr. Zhu favorably with Mr. Li, who is widely disliked for his central role in the violent suppression of the 1989 student-led democracy movement.
Mr. Zhu has angrily rejected the label, sometimes applied to him by Western admirers, of "China's Gorbachev." The man who presided over the dismantling of the Soviet Union is officially loathed here. Mr. Zhu's own views on broadening participation in political decision-making have remained private, but he has not been known to question the primacy of the Communist Party.
"The touchstone for a Chinese leader is how much chaos is being created," a Western diplomat said. "If there is the threat of serious social disturbance, I don't doubt for a moment that he'll use the necessary force to stop it."
Mr. Zhu, who spent long years as a political outcast, has scaled the heights of power with astonishing speed, in large part because he was sponsored by Deng Xiaoping, another pragmatist, who also suffered under Mao.
 
Humble Birth, Technical Education
Mr. Zhu was born in humble circumstances in Changsha, Hunan Province, on Oct. 1, 1928. His father died before his birth, and his mother died while he was still a small boy, leaving him to be raised by relatives.
He studied electrical engineering at Qinghua University in Beijing, China's M.I.T. There he was chairman of the student union and in 1949, the year the People's Republic was founded, he joined the Communist Party.
There, too, he met his wife, Lao An, now said in an official biography to be on the board of directors of an engineering company. The couple has two daughters, according to the biography, but little is known publicly about the family.
Mr. Zhu worked as an industrial planner in China's northeast, then in the State Planning Commission in Beijing. But he met disaster in 1956, when he took at face value Mao's invitation to "let a hundred flowers bloom" -- that is, criticize party policy. By the next year labeled a rightist, he was ousted from the party and relegated to low-level jobs. Later, during the Cultural Revolution of 1966-76, he was forced to spend years working on farms.
Deng's climb back to power in the late 1970's allowed Mr. Zhu's rehabilitation, too, after 20 years in the political doldrums. In 1982, the Minister of Petroleum Industry, Kang Shien, gave him a senior position and brought him to the attention of Deng, who put him on the fast track.
Mr. Zhu gained national notice in 1988 when he was named Mayor of Shanghai, China's largest city and the vibrant rival of Beijing. There, too, began a complex relationship with Jiang Zemin, who as the city's Communist Party chief was his superior.
His first project in Shanghai was an anti-corruption drive, immediately winning him popularity. He instructed the city's anti-corruption body to aim its sights on 506 director-level bureaucrats. If officials at that middle level remain upright, Mr. Zhu said, they will see that the people below them do so as well.
Today, Shanghai officials who worked with Mr. Zhu recall being amazed by how relentlessly he drove those working with him, and how he took to scolding lackluster officials in a most un-Chinese manner -- in public.
As Shanghai's Mayor, Mr. Zhu went out of his way to woo foreign investors and took the unusual step of setting up a business advisory council of foreign executives. Playing host to high-powered members like Maurice Greenberg, chairman of the insurance giant AIG; John Reed, chairman of Citicorp, and John F. Smith, chairman of General Motors, once a year not only exposed them to Shanghai, it also forced recalcitrant local officials to consider outside ideas.
Another celebrated Zhu innovation was the "one-chop shop," the creation of a single office in the Shanghai government to grant swift approval for foreign investment projects. As often as the concept has been praised, though, Mr. Zhu has admitted that it never actually worked as advertised.
 
Keeping Shanghai Cool During '89 Protests
For Mr. Zhu, as for many Chinese, 1989 was a searing and telling year. As student-led demonstrations grew in Beijing and Mr. Jiang was called to the capital, Mr. Zhu took charge in Shanghai. After June 4, when the army crushed the demonstrations in and near Tiananmen Square, outraged students and workers in Shanghai threatened to mount a general strike.
Mr. Zhu went on television to address Shanghai residents directly and delivered what is still widely remembered as a brilliant address. Amazingly, he did not repeat the official line, that the killings by the army in Beijing had been a necessary response to a "counterrevolutionary rebellion."
"Historical facts cannot be covered up by anybody," Mr. Zhu said. "The truth will always come out." All sides were free to interpret his comments in their own way, and demonstrators dispersed without bloodshed.
Deng moved Mr. Zhu to Beijing as a Deputy Prime Minister in 1991. Mr. Zhu soon opened the Economic and Trade Office, which he filled with reform-minded economists and officials and used as a power base.
When Communist leaders from all over China gathered for a party congress in 1992, Mr. Zhu was just an alternate member of the Central Committee, placing him only in the top 300 members of the party hierarchy.
But at that congress, on Deng's instruction, Mr. Zhu made a rare "triple jump" -- into the 150-member Central Committee, the 20-member Politburo and even the Politburo's 7-member Standing Committee, all at once.
Suddenly, Mr. Zhu ranked fifth in the Party. Beijing's political cognoscenti saw a future Prime Minister, and some in the old guard began taking pot shots at the impudent reformer.
 
As Boss of Economy, Zhu Curbs Inflation
But the leadership, increasingly dominated by Mr. Jiang, would soon desperately need Mr. Zhu's help. By 1993, the economy was in danger of overheating, growing 14 percent on a reckless surge in money supply, rampant real estate speculation and inflation that raged at 24 percent a year, raising fears of social turmoil.
When Prime Minister Li disappeared from public view in early 1993, apparently from a heart attack, Mr. Zhu was promoted to Executive Deputy Prime Minister and given broad authority to get the economy under control.
Mr. Zhu promptly dismissed the head of the central bank and took over the job himself, personally directing an unpopular policy of tightly limiting loans and curbing Government spending. His strict enforcement of austerity measures, aided by the tongue-lashings he doled out when visiting officials in the provinces, would earn him enemies as well as admirers.
Soon, officials began spreading a Zhu-inspired line that China would aim to achieve a "soft landing" by bringing down inflation while maintaining a high and steady growth rate. The notion that was roundly ridiculed by outside economists.
But a 33 percent devaluation of the yuan, China's currency, in 1994 spurred exports without worsening inflation. By 1995 inflation declined to 10 percent, in 1996 it hit 6 percent and by 1997 inflation was close to 1 percent. Meanwhile, growth remained high, though it is projected to slide to 8 percent in 1998.
In Mr. Zhu's strategy, China is entering a difficult phase, with a vast array of state-owned companies that must be made solvent or discarded. At the same time, the old "iron rice bowl" that provided lifetime job security is being dismantled, to be replaced by a modern system of social insurance and welfare programs. It is a dangerous course politically, with the potential to breed unrest, but senior leaders seem to agree that they have no alternative.
Since Deng's death early last year, Mr. Zhu has stayed aloft politically without a senior patron, and if events go badly in years to come, he will be an easy scapegoat. Although President Jiang and Mr. Zhu have worked together for nearly 10 years, Mr. Zhu has never been considered part of the President's inner circle.
"Jiang and Zhu have always had some tension between them because of their different backgrounds and leadership styles and their shared political ambitions," said Li Cheng, a political science professor at Hamilton College. "I think this tension will become stronger as Zhu moves to the front seat now."
He will also be in a potentially awkward situation with his predecessor as Prime Minister, Mr. Li, who will apparently remain in second place in the all-powerful party hierarchy while serving in a less powerful Government job, as Speaker of the National People's Congress, the nominal Parliament. Yet Mr. Zhu, the aggressively competent achiever, has in recent years shown that he can do his own job well without totally upstaging his superiors.
And Mr. Jiang, a skilled politician and consensus builder who has surprised everyone with his ability to lead China's global emergence in recent years, may know he needs Mr. Zhu to keep the engines of China's progress running smoothly.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 19, 1998, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Monday about Zhu Rongji, China's new Prime Minister, referred to his children incorrectly, based on erroneous information in an official biography. He has a son and a daughter, not two daughters, according to a new official biography.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Zhu Rongji. (Associated Press)(pg. 1); President Jiang Zemin and Deputy Prime Minister Zhu Rongji conferred on March 6 during a session of China's National People's Congress, or Parliament, as plans to trim the country's bureaucracy were discussed. (Associated Press)(pg. A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: CHINA (98%); SWITZERLAND (92%); TAIWAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (78%); 

COMPANY: GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL (52%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; TAIWAN; ; CHINA (98%); SWITZERLAND (92%); TAIWAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (78%); 

SUBJECT: FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; ENVIRONMENT; LABOR; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CABINETS AND SUB-CABINETS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BANKS AND BANKING; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); POLITICS (89%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TRENDS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); INFLATION (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS (63%); 

PERSON: ZHU RONGJI (DEPUTY PRIME MIN); ECKHOLM, ERIK; FAISON, SETH JIANG ZEMIN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1998



366 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 16, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A;Page 2;Column 3;Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1441 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-9
 
Hindu Nationalists to Rule, But Face Policy Limits
Atal Bihari Vajpayee, the parliamentary leader of India's main Hindu nationalist party, was summoned to the presidential palace and handed a letter asking him to become Prime Minister. The invitation to establish a Government ended the party's wait for power, but the circumstances appeared to leave little room for the Hindu supremacist policies that are anathema to the country's 120 million Muslims. A1
 
China To Gain New Premier
Zhu Rongji, who is expected to be named Prime Minister of China on Tuesday, is a career Communist planner who has won the respect of other Chinese leaders and Western business executives. He will become head of China's Cabinet at a time when the world's most populous country is emerging as an economic and political heavyweight. A1 

Bosnia Decision Is Postponed
An international arbiter postponed a decision on which ethnic grouping will control the strategically important Bosnian city of Brcko for at least nine months, meaning that Bosnian Serb authorities will retain control of the town for now. A3
 
Leftists Win in French Elections
The leftist parties of Prime Minister Lionel Jospin's nine-month-old Government coalition knocked the conservative opposition out of power in about half of France's 22 regional assemblies in light voting around the country, according to partial results. Only about 60 percent of the electorate bothered to cast ballots for the regional parliaments. A3
 
Conflict Over Settlement Visit
The Israeli Government declared that the British Foreign Secretary's plan to visit the site of a disputed new Jewish settlement was "unacceptable," raising the possibility that Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu would refuse to see him. The Foreign Secretary, Robin Cook, has made it clear that he intends to exert pressure on Israel to resume the stalled peace effort. A8
 
Gun Mystery in South Africa
A former guerrilla for the African National Congress's armed wing wore a suit and reported for work at a high-level Government job for years. But last week he was arrested in Mozambique, holding some $11,000 in cash and looking over a pile of assault rifles, Mozambican police officials said. He fled on foot, trying to get back over the border. South Africans wonder: What were the guns for? A9
 
Africa Trade Pact Advances
The House gave President Clinton an important carrot to bring on his trip to Africa this month by approving a broad trade bill with the continent. The legislation, which still needs to be approved by the Senate, promotes private United States investment for the 48 countries of sub-Saharan Africa. A9
 
NATIONAL A10-22
 
G.O.P. Could Cement Its Place in the South
The G.O.P. has a better than even chance this year of completing the transformation of the states of the Old Confederacy, from solidly Democratic to strongly Republican. It has come down to Georgia, the only state in the region that has yet to elect a Republican governor. A1
 
Accusers 'Sacrificed?'
The six women who accused Sgt. Maj. Gene C. McKinney of sexual misconduct said that they were of one mind about what persuaded the jury of four officers and four enlisted soldiers to acquit the sergeant major of all but one charge: the jurors were just being good soldiers. And in protecting the institution of the Army, one of the women says, the jurors "sacrificed" the accusers. A1
 
Woman, on TV, Accuses Clinton
Kathleen E. Willey said in a television interview that President Clinton forced himself on her sexually in an Oval Office encounter more than four years ago and that his lawyer later tried to sway her testimony. The interview, on the CBS News program "60 Minutes," put a vulnerable human face and an emotional voice on a story that has so far been told in dry court documents and in second-hand accounts. A1
 
With her testimony in the Paula Jones case and appearance on "60 Minutes," Kathleen E. Willey has suddenly become a pivotal figure in the controversies swirling around President Clinton. But her story, like so many accounts in the criminal investigation of the President's dealings with various women, is murky and contradicted by others. A22
 
Kenneth W. Starr has issued a subpoena compelling a young New York woman to testify on Tuesday before a grand jury investigating President Clinton. The woman, Sherrie K. Densuk, has never met Mr. Clinton, much less had any relationship with him, and never worked in the White House, said her lawyer, Keith M. Watters. A22
 
Republican Civil Wars
Loleta Didrickson, a fiscal conservative and a social liberal, seemed the Republican Party's best bet in its effort in Illinois to unseat Senator Carol Moseley-Braun from the United States Senate. But as Tuesday's primary approaches, a conservative state representative has climbed virtually even with Ms. Didrickson. In what has become a familiar pattern around the nation, conservative and moderate Republicans are waging a virtual civil war in primaries, and in some cases nominating a candidate who can not defeat the Democrats. A16
 
Report Lauds Charter Schools
A report to be released today by a group that supports charter schools says that most of the "best" such schools it surveyed met, and sometimes surpassed, their promises to raise academic achievement. Critics of charter schools said the report provided little worthwhile information because it was not done by a neutral group, lacked independent analysis of the schools' claims and was based on a limited sample. A10
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-6
 
Haitians Marshal Forces For Political Gain
A group of Haitian clergy members, radio personalities and grass-roots organizers met recently and set for themselves a simple but momentous goal: electing the first Haitian-American to political office. The community leaders discussed three possible candidates, including Samuel Nicolas, who was the spokesman for his cousin Abner Louima, the alleged victim of a brutal police beating in Brooklyn, and who has just announced a bid for the 42d Assembly District seat in Flatbush and East Flatbush in Brooklyn. B1
 
Tax Dispute Heats Up
As the City Council prepares to respond this month to Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's preliminary budget, disputes over what taxes to cut are coming into sharp focus. The Mayor wants to eliminate the sales tax on clothing. But Peter F. Vallone, the Speaker of the City Council, says that a cut in the city's personal income tax would put more money in taxpayers' pockets. The consensus in City Hall that money should be returned to taxpayers reflects how much things have changed in a city that in a more liberal era would have used surpluses for popular programs. B1
 
No Extra Parade Security
A year after an 18-year-old Bronx High School senior was beaten to death at the St. Patricks' Day Parade, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and city police officials said there were no plans to increase the number of officers deployed. B3
 
SPORTSMONDAY C1-12
 
ARTS E1-8
 
OBITUARIES B7
 
Carleton Putnam
The former chairman of Delta Air Lines, who also wrote an acclaimed biography of Theodore Roosevelt and turned out a classic defense of racial segregation, was 96. B7
 
BUSINESS DAY D1-12
 
Aetna to Expand
Aetna Inc. is expected to announce today that it is buying the health care business of the New York Life Insurance Company for $1.05 billion in cash. The deal would significantly increase Aetna's market share in metropolitan New York, in the Washington-Baltimore area and in Texas. D1
 
Buffet Selling Some Stock
Warren Buffet says he is having a hard time finding new investments that look cheap. So he has been selling some of his huge stock portfolio. Mr. Buffett, in the annual report of Berkshire Hathaway Inc., released over the weekend, said the company had sold about 5 percent of its stocks last year while buying silver and zero-coupon Treasury bonds. D2
 
Stocks Lower in Tokyo
Stocks were trading lower in Tokyo today. At midday, the Nikkei index of 225 issues was down 162.44 points, or almost 1 percent, at 16,897.70. (Bloomberg News)
 
Business Digest D1
 
EDITORIAL A24-25
 
Editorials: The value of history; filtering the Internet; foreign policy held hostage; Eleanor Randolph on "Primary Colors."
 
Columns: Anthony Lewis, William Safire.
 
Bridge E8
 
Metro. Diary B2
 
Crossword E4
 
Weather C11

CORRECTION-DATE: March 23, 1998, Monday

 CORRECTION:
A chart last Monday with an article about Republican gains in the South misstated the party affiliations of several states' governors and senators and the makeup of their Congressional delegations in 1980 and 1990. A corrected version appears today on page A12.

GRAPHIC: Photos.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: CHINA (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); AFRICA (93%); ISRAEL (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); MOZAMBIQUE (92%); INDIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); AFRICA (93%); ISRAEL (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); MOZAMBIQUE (92%); INDIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES LIBERALISM (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (88%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); CIVIL SERVICES (77%); JEWS & JUDAISM (75%); APPROVALS (75%); RELIGION (73%); LEGISLATION (70%); PEACE PROCESS (70%); ETHNIC GROUPS (70%); POLICE FORCES (67%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (64%); FIREARMS (62%); ARRESTS (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (58%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1998



367 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1998

SECTION: Section E; Page 5; Column 4; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 505 words

HEADLINE: MUSIC REVIEW;
Hunting the Heft Amid the Delicacy

BYLINE: By JAMES R. OESTREICH 

 BODY:
A California orchestra playing a Mahler symphony on one day and a mixed program on another: next weekend, it is the Los Angeles Philharmonic, led by Esa-Pekka Salonen at Avery Fisher Hall; last Thursday and Friday evenings, it was the San Francisco Symphony, conducted by Michael Tilson Thomas at Carnegie Hall.
The San Francisco's Mahler, on Thursday, was the Sixth Symphony, which never used to be a particular favorite of performers but is now ubiquitous. Perhaps in these millennial days, its tragic overtones are heard in terms of apocalypse. 
 If so, we should be grateful to conductors like Mr. Thomas, who honor Mahler's second thought in deleting the third, fatal hammer blow in the finale. Valery Gergiyev inflicted that last wallop with the New York Philharmonic in January, and it was Mr. Gergiyev's dark vision with which Mr. Thomas was undoubtedly competing in many a mind here.
This was an altogether different sort of performance: contained, beautifully balanced and superbly played. But beauty is not necessarily the first thing one looks for in a Mahler Sixth. Indeed, it seemed a fine thing when the brasses began to blare and other roughnesses cropped up in the finale. The performers, it appeared, were finally coming to grips with that subtext. Where were the power and the sheer loudness that could have added so much to the earlier movements?
That question continued to rankle the next evening, when the orchestra produced all the heft anyone could want in Stravinsky's "Firebird" and Copland's Orchestral Variations. Once again, even with the added strength, the playing was generally beautiful in ensemble if not invariably in solos. What was lacking here, at times, was atmosphere, a matter made difficult by the repertory.
The Copland was given an excellent, virtuosic performance, but this 1957 inflation of the composer's Piano Variations, from 1930, seems not only pointless for the most part but also destructive of the original work's essence, its brilliant pithiness and point. And there is no compelling reason to play the "Firebird" ballet score complete for concert purposes. Taken simply as music, it is often diffuse, a fact that even a fine performance here did not obscure.
Rachmaninoff's Fourth Piano Concerto, a rather watery soup made from scraps of his earlier works in the genre, filled out the program. Jean-Yves Thibaudet, the soloist, complemented the orchestra's qualities nicely, playing with lovely tone and agility.
His refusal to resort to clangor kept him from being heard against some of the louder orchestral outbursts but paid dividends in a performance of such sheen that a listener was willing to overlook the sizable lack of compositional polish and inspiration.
These concerts made clear that wonderful things are happening in San Francisco with this combination of conductor and orchestra. It was too bad that with the repertory added into the mix here, the performances never carried a listener from the level of admiration to genuine excitement.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SAN FRANCISCO SYMPHONY CARNEGIE HALL CORP (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: SAN FRANCISCO SYMPHONY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; REVIEWS MUSIC REVIEWS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (89%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (73%); MILLENNIUM (70%); 

PERSON: OESTREICH, JAMES R; THOMAS, MICHAEL TILSON MICHAEL TILSON THOMAS (92%); AVERY FISHER (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 1998



368 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1998

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 1; Science Desk 

LENGTH: 2023 words

HEADLINE: What Else Lurks Out There? New Census of the Heavens Aims to Find Out

BYLINE: By JAMES GLANZ; James Glanz is a writer at Science magazine.

DATELINE: APACHE POINT, N.M.

 BODY:
PERCHED on a platform that extends like a diving board from this wind-whipped ridge 9,200 feet above sea level, between the foothills of the Sacramento Mountains and the close night sky, the new Sloan Telescope hardly looks imposing.
By astronomical standards, its 100-inch-diameter primary mirror is modest in size, and outside of its small roll-away storage garage, the squat cubelike structure of the telescope seems almost lost standing naked in the night air. 
 But next month when it is joined to a new camera that now sits, carefully tended, in a "clean room" nearby, the little Sloan will instantly become powerful enough to plunge into the largest and most comprehensive census of the visible universe that has ever been undertaken.
The project here in rugged mountain terrain 80 miles northeast of El Paso is called the Sloan Digital Sky Survey. At its heart will sit a dark array of 54 silicon chips, known as "charge-coupled devices," or C.C.D.'s, that will convert the light from huge swaths of the New Mexico night sky into digitized images that can be poured onto magnetic tapes and into computers for study. Built by Dr. James Gunn of Princeton University and his collaborators, the C.C.D. camera will be hoisted into its place behind the Sloan telescope this spring when it makes its first test observation, a moment astronomers call "first light."
Once the problems have been worked out, over the next six years or so, these C.C.D.'s should pour out a cornucopia of data: images in five different colors of 50 million galaxies, 100,000 quasars, millions of individual stars in this galaxy, and a whole menagerie of celestial oddballs. The survey will be used for everything from finding the sources of distant X-ray bursts to catching the glint of asteroids whose orbits cross that of Earth.
"We are going to compile a field guide to the heavens," said Dr. Michael Turner, an astronomer at the University of Chicago and the Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory who is the spokesman for the $80 million project. It involves researchers at Princeton, the University of Chicago, Fermilab, the Johns Hopkins University, the Institute for Advanced Study, the United States Naval Observatory, the University of Washington and a collaboration called the Japan Participation Group.
"There is nothing in the world that comes close to this," said Dr. Alan Uomoto, an astronomer at Johns Hopkins, crouching in the clean room beside the array. It represents by far the largest such device ever built to do astronomy, he said. "This is at the top."
The survey will blanket a quarter of the northern sky -- where astronomers can most easily peer into deep space, away from the disk of this crowded, dusty galaxy -- and probe selected slices in the south, Dr. Turner said.
Astronomers in many fields say that like charts guiding explorers through unfamiliar continents, the digital census will be crucial in making sense of the welter of activity that is turning up in the cosmos.
"The digital survey is absolutely unique, and it will be a gold mine of data for many, many years," said Dr. Marc Davis, an astronomer at the University of California at Berkeley.
But the Sloan Survey will not stop there. The consortium of cosmologists plans to use the data from Sloan to produce a three-dimensional scale model of a large chunk of the universe.
As images rush out of the C.C.D. camera at the rate of six trillion bytes of data a year, supercomputers at Fermilab will sift the million brightest galaxies out of the "field guide," and the Sloan telescope will more closely examine the light from them using spectrographs built by Dr. Uomoto and others. This will let team members measure precise distances to those galaxies, leading to the creation of an exquisitely detailed, three-dimensional map of Earth's corner of the universe. The filigreed patterns traced out by the galaxies -- walls, voids, clumps and filaments -- will be tracked over 1.5 billion light-years of space with an accuracy that has never before been possible.
Many cosmologists believe the seeds for those colossal structures were sown by "quantum fluctuations" in the first fraction of a second after the Big Bang, when the entire observable universe was no larger than a grapefruit. The patterns of the ripples would have depended on just how the elementary constituents of matter interacted inside that superhot ball. So mapping the galaxies today should not only tell cosmologists how the large-scale structure grew out of those ripples, but also just what kinds of matter -- and how much of it -- the universe is made of.
"We're looking into outer space to see back into inner space: the first moments of the universe and the inner space of the elementary particles," Dr. Turner said.
The Sloan project had its start around 1990 in meetings between, among others, Dr. Donald York and Dr. Richard Kron of the University of Chicago and Dr. Gunn, who had been instrumental in building the original camera for the Hubble Space Telescope.
Not since the National Geographic Society-Palomar Observatory Survey of the 1950's has a comprehensive census been attempted. Although it became part of astronomy's intellectual bedrock, the Palomar Survey relied on a 48-inch telescope and photographic plates. Dr. Gunn and his colleagues realized that with the far more sensitive C.C.D. technology and a larger telescope, they could reach much deeper into the sky, with higher precision and more detail.
The result, says Dr. Timothy Heckman of Johns Hopkins, the Sloan Survey's current chief executive officer, would be a digital "universe in a box" accessible to virtually anyone who can handle copious amounts of data. The Sloan telescope at the Apache Point Observatory was designed from scratch with this survey in mind. Perched among the tips of pine trees sticking above the edge of the platform, the Sloan telescope even looks different from its fellow instruments.
It will be protected only by wind baffles once a sort of garage-on-wheels is retracted for a night's observing. The design eliminates temperature differences that can drive air currents through the slit of a traditional dome. The platform itself keeps the telescope above turbulent flows of air along the ground. Both of these effects would tend to smear images.
"There's still the romantic idea of the lone astronomer in the dome," said Dr. Heckman. "The Sloan is a very different kind of model."
In a single image, the Sloan telescope can drink in a piece of the sky the size of the Big Dipper's bucket -- an area much wider than a typical astronomical telescope can observe in a single frame.
The images will be built up as Earth's rotation scans the telescope's field of view across strips of the sky. Almost two square feet of those light-hungry C.C.D.'s comprise the camera. Different filters over rows of C.C.D.'s will produce each series of images in five different colors -- the better to distinguish humdrum reddish stars from, say, the pristine blue stars that are nearly as old as the universe itself. With more than 50 times the number of light-sensitive "pixels" as the Wide Field/Planetary Camera on the Hubble Space Telescope, the Sloan C.C.D. camera will produce 200 billion bytes of data on a clear night.
Crediting faster computers, Dr. Gunn says coping with that data stream "is not nearly so harrowing a technological thing as it would have been just a few years ago." Magnetic tapes carrying the images go to Fermilab, where analysis by supercomputers will generate an enormous catalogue of objects inside and outside this galaxy.
The objects will be sorted by their shapes, colors, locations, brightnesses, approximate distances and other qualities. Those objects could be galaxies, hyperactive beacons called quasars, aged stars, stars on the verge of exploding, or the "failed stars" called brown dwarfs -- "every sick animal in the stellar zoo," said Bruce Margon of the University of Washington, the scientific director for the survey, adding, "There is something in this for everyone."
To find precise distances to the million brightest galaxies in that catalogue, the survey team will use a spectrograph to subdivide the colors of light coming from them even more finely. Because the universe is expanding, galaxies are rushing away from Earth at speeds that are nearly proportional to their distance away. Like the whistle of a receding train, the light from a galaxy is shifted to lower and lower frequencies -- meaning redder and redder colors -- the faster its recession speed.
That allows astronomers to measure a galaxy's distance by measuring the displacement, or red shift, of features in its spectrum. The chore will be assigned to a pair of spectrographs containing mirrors, prisms and gratings and built by a group that includes Dr. Uomoto. Such observations will be made on nights that are not clear enough for the imaging survey, said Dr. Uomoto, who projects the air of a country doctor as he makes his rounds in a down jacket and a blue flannel shirt, while a small black flashlight dangles from a leather strap around his neck. ("I'm working in the telescope at night and I can't find my way back," he said, explaining the flashlight.)
Spectra of galaxies and other objects will be taken 640 at a time through holes drilled in large aluminum disks by robots that have been given coordinates from the catalogue. Light from the sources will fall on the holes when the telescope is pointed in a particular direction and the proper disk is fitted into the focal plane. The holes will be stuffed with fiber optics that feed C.C.D. cameras in the spectrographs. On a good night, the survey team hopes to expose 10 disks.
Combining the galaxies' distances with their positions on the sky, the Sloan team will construct far and away the largest and most accurate three-dimensional map ever seen of Earth's cosmic neighborhood. The tapestry of filaments, voids and walls that will emerge was first glimpsed in smaller surveys in the late 1970's and the 1980's. But like a connect-the-dots drawing with some of the numbers missing, the sketchiness of existing surveys has frustrated astronomers' attempts to read its meaning.
Astronomers would like to compare those structures to the ripples seen in the cosmic microwave background radiation, widely regarded as the afterglow of the Big Bang. Those ripples should reflect the primordial inhomogeneities from which the large-scale tapestry grew. But those ripples have been measured with high accuracy only on scales much larger than those studied by intensive galaxy surveys.
The Sloan Survey, by stretching to 1.5 billion light-years, will let cosmologists test whether they truly understand where the structure came from. If it turns out that they do, then according to their computer models, the detailed "strength," or commonness, of galaxy structures of various sizes should reveal how much matter there is in the universe.
"A complete survey of the northern sky should have tremendous cosmological power," said Dr. Jeremiah P. Ostriker, a cosmologist who is provost of Princeton University. "The Sloan Survey will vastly repay the effort put into it."
Since the galaxies are thought to be a glowing "froth" on a much larger quantity of dark, or unseen, matter, the structures should also shed light on just what most of the universe is made of -- exotic, slow-moving, theorized particles called Wimps, perhaps, or more ordinary stuff.
The approach of first light has some Sloan members marveling over the changes technology has wrought. "When I started, cosmology was very much like philosophy," said Dr. Alexander Szalay of Johns Hopkins, who received his doctorate in Budapest in 1975. "There was very little chance of measuring something precisely. It's now turning into high-precision science."
Others are simply itching to get the survey off the ground. "Do I ever," said Dr. Gunn when asked whether he felt relief that starlight would soon fall on his C.C.D. camera. "I'll feel better when it gets on the telescope and we actually start getting some images."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dr. James Gunn of Princeton University and his collaborators built a new camera that over the next six years will be used in a huge sky survey. Dr. Gunn donned protective clothing to avoid carrying dust near the sensitive device, kept in a "clean room" at the observatory nearly two miles above sea level. In the constellation Coma Berenices, galaxies swarm in a cloud that is one in the largest conglomerations of matter in the nearby universe. Searching out such structures will be the task of the new Sloan Telescope, left. Scientists plan to use it to conduct the largest survey of the universe ever undertaken. (Photographs by Dan Long; Astrophysical Research Consortium)(pg. F1); Richard Kron, astrophysicist, inserted optical fibers into spectrograph that will measure distances to galaxies. (Thomas Nash)(pg. F5)
 
Map/Chart: "Cosmic Architecture"
By analyzing and mapping the present-day structure of the cosmos, cosmolo-gists hope to learn more about conditions during the Big Bang and the properties of the mysterious dark matter that apparently makes up 90 percent of the universe.
 
The map at right shows the distribution of some 6,000 galaxies in a slice of the northern sky. It was produced in 1986 by Margaret Geller, John Huchra, and Valerie de Lapparent of the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics. Earth is at the vertex of the pie. The dense conglomeration of dots at the center, forming the body of the little man is the Coma cluster of galaxies. Equally dramatic as Coma are several voids,regions up to 200 million light-years across apparently devoid of galaxies. Over the last 20 years, diagrams like this have slowly disabused astronomers of a long-standing presumption that galaxies are scatter-ed more or less evenly through space. In-stead the universe seems to have a bubble-like archi-tecture with the galaxies arranged in giant clouds, chains and sheets. Why and how galaxies should arrange themselves this way is a mystery. Cosmologists theorize that this pattern was originated in quantum fluctuations in the density of matter and radiation when the universe was very young and microscopic. (pg. F1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (85%); NEW MEXICO, USA (75%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (85%); 

COMPANY: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (82%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (82%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); ILLINOIS, USA (85%); NEW MEXICO, USA (75%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (85%); 

SUBJECT: SPACE; TELESCOPES AND OBSERVATORIES; SLOAN TELESCOPE (APACHE POINT, NM); PHOTOGRAPHY; STARS AND GALAXIES; SLOAN DIGITAL SKY SURVEY; COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; CENSUS; UNIVERSE OBSERVATORIES & TELESCOPES (91%); CENSUS (91%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); NAVIES (73%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); COMPUTER CHIPS (67%); PARTICLE ACCELERATORS (60%); 

PERSON: GLANZ, JAMES; GUNN, JAMES (DR) SLOAN TELESCOPE (69%); MICHAEL TURNER (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 1998



369 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 659 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING;
Wells BDDP's post-mortem begins, looking to Darwin and snowballs by clients and employees.

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:
AS once-mighty Wells BDDP in New York prepares to close, it joins a growing list of problem-plagued agencies that have dissolved faster than cookies in hot tea.
As Madison Avenue ponders that lengthening roster, which includes Leonard/Monahan, Ally & Gargano and Geer, DuBois, a question arises: Has the agency industry become so Darwinian that troubled shops are no longer afforded time to solve their difficulties and as a result must inevitably crumble? 
 In the past, it seems that struggling agencies were able to spend time restoring themselves to competitive positions. Earlier in this decade, McCann-Erickson, Ogilvy & Mather and Young & Rubicam all confronted tumultuous account losses yet managed to rebound -- even bettering their previous positions. But nowadays, to turn a Cole Porter lyric inside out, are besieged agencies fated to become too cool not to heat up?
"There are agencies that have rough patches and get through them," said Kenneth S. Olshan, who was dismissed as chairman and chief executive of Wells in 1995 and is now a director of Saatchi & Saatchi P.L.C. in New York.
"But clients are not as loyal as they were once upon a time," he said, and their departures often bring on "a point at which the critical mass isn't there to keep an agency going forward."
Soon, "there's no momentum anymore," Mr. Olshan added. "When that threshold is reached, it's out of control."
Wells, a unit of GGT Group P.L.C., is scheduled to cease operations on May 13 after being battered by a skein of lost accounts as well as management and ownership changes. Billings, which peaked at almost $1 billion in 1991, had fallen to about $500 million at the start of 1997; when the decision to close came on Friday, they had declined to less than $200 million.
Such situations have a tendency to snowball, said Lauren Rich Fine, an equity analyst who follows advertising and new media for Merrill Lynch in New York, as clients and employees "begin to think 'If that great account left, they might know something.' "
And in a strong economy, she said, when employees "know they can get jobs elsewhere," their departures can in turn accelerate the departures of important accounts, "which makes it harder to get new clients."
Indeed, the last time Wells underwent a similarly stressful period in the early 1990's, the agency industry was mired in a painful recession. Wells was able to do then what it was unable to do now: woo several big accounts to compensate for lost clients.
"I don't think it's impossible to get out of trouble," said Patrick J. McGrath, president and chief executive at Jordan, McGrath, Case & Taylor in New York, who is the 1997-98 vice chairman of the American Association of Advertising Agencies. "There are agencies that go through hard times and turn around.
"But when the trouble is so deep, so beyond repair, when you get to a certain point maybe there's no coming back. Wells reached that point -- and beyond."
So even for an agency like Wells, Mr. McGrath said, "which was big and important to the industry, with great campaigns and a fascinating history, that's tough to recover from."
The biggest blow to Wells came in late January, when turmoil on its largest account, the Procter & Gamble Company, prompted P.& G. to dismiss the agency and pull all its billings, estimated at $125 million.
P.& G. accounted for "half our revenue and a much bigger chunk of profits," said J. Steve Davis, who joined Wells as chairman and chief executive after the dismissal.
Losing P.& G. caused GGT's stock to plunge, which "put the company in play," he added, and attracted the interest of WPP Group. GGT ultimately agreed to be acquired by Omnicom Group in New York, which is hiring some Wells employees as it absorbs some Wells accounts.
"This was really a roller coaster ride," Mr. Davis said, still clearly taken aback that the ride is over.
"It hasn't really hit me yet," he said.

 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (58%); MER (NYSE) (58%); 8675 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (69%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (69%); SIC6221 COMMODITY CONTRACTS BROKERS & DEALERS (66%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: WELLS BDDP SAATCHI & SAATCHI WORLDWIDE (69%); GGT GROUP PLC (66%); JORDAN MCGRATH CASE & TAYLOR INC (60%); OGILVY & MATHER WORLDWIDE (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: WELLS BDDP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: ADVERTISING; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); INDUSTRY PROFILES MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (88%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (76%); EQUITY RESEARCH (72%); RECESSION (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); 

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART JOSEPH W MCGRATH (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 1998



370 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 36 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:
YEN FALLS. The yen hit a two-month low after Japan's Finance Minister said there were no plans for a supplementary budget to stimulate the economy. In New York, the dollar cost 129.64 yen, up from 128.15 Friday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Japanese Yen to the Dollar, since September 1996. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (87%); TRENDS (86%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 1998



371 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 133 words

HEADLINE: Let Doctors Sleep

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re "12 New York Hospitals Receive Surprise Visits From State Inspectors" (news article, March 12): Attention to residents' training in New York State hospitals over their legally mandated working hours has received much press coverage. What is less well known is that the mentors of these residents -- the attending physicians -- are frequently subjected to sleepless schedules, as the law does not pertain to them. 
 Financial crises in some hospitals have forced many supervising physicians to work extended hours: for some, a 36-hour shift can be the norm. The law should be extended to cover all physicians so that everyone who is charged with making lifesaving medical decisions can do so with adequate rest.
 
LAURIE MELTZER
East Norwich, N.Y., March 13, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE CANAL CORP (92%); NEW YORK STATE ASSOCIATION FOR RETARDED CHILDREN INC (92%); NEW YORK STATE ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITIES CORP (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION HOSPITALS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (53%); 

PERSON: MELTZER, LAURIE MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 1998



372 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 2; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 219 words

HEADLINE: Indonesia's New Cabinet Takes Office

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: JAKARTA, Indonesia, March 16

 BODY:
A new nationalist-oriented Cabinet took office today facing tough negotiations with international lenders over how best to dig Indonesia out of its deepening economic crisis.
As if to emphasize his autonomy, President Suharto announced the formation of a Cabinet on Saturday that appears to represent business as usual at a time when the International Monetary Fund is demanding fundamental changes in the economy. 
 Cabinet members said today that they would set to work immediately to form their policies, as representatives from donor nations gathered in Jakarta to meet with them.
Already here or soon to arrive are senior officials from the I.M.F., the United States, Germany and Japan, all of which have urged Mr. Suharto to proceed with austerity measures to which he agreed two months ago.
The stock market and Indonesia's currency strengthened slightly today, maintaining what financial analysts said was a holding pattern as investors wait to see whether some accommodation can be reached between Indonesia and the I.M.F.
The fund has delayed the continued disbursement of its $40 billion aid package because of doubts over the carrying out of its conditions, and Indonesia has indicated it might strengthen its currency by pegging it to the dollar, which the I.M.F. opposes.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: INDONESIA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (76%); 

CITY: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (73%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (90%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (90%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDONESIA; INDONESIA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (76%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (73%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CABINETS AND SUB-CABINETS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); FOREIGN LENDING (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); TRENDS (76%); POLITICS (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 1998



373 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 11; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 486 words

HEADLINE: Thomas H. Johnson, 98, Cosmic Ray Physicist

BYLINE: By FORD BURKHART 

 BODY:
Dr. Thomas H. Johnson, a cosmic ray physicist whose findings were part of the foundation for the field of high energy physics, died on Feb. 25 at his home in Denmark, Me. He was 98.
Dr. Johnson worked at the Brookhaven National Laboratory on Long Island before becoming vice president for research at the Raytheon Corporation in Lexington, Mass., in the 1950's. 
 Working at the Bartol Research Foundation in Swarthmore, Pa., in the 1930's, Dr. Johnson set out to count cosmic rays at different elevations and help explain the radiation that constantly bombards Earth.
He and his associates sent up balloons, sometimes taken for unidentified flying objects, with film to record cosmic rays at points from sea level to mountain tops as high as 10,000 feet in Colorado, Mexico and Peru. They found that the rays came mainly from the Western sky, were weaker at the Equator and were strongest at higher elevations.
The findings confirmed that cosmic rays are attracted by Earth's magnetic field to the North and South Poles, said Dr. Nicholas D. Samios, a senior physicist at Brookhaven and former director of the laboratory.
"Beyond his research, Dr. Johnson was influential in the development of science, generally, by obtaining Federal resources and improving facilities for research," Dr. Samios said.
Dr. Johnson was assistant director of Bartol from 1927 until the onset of World War II, when he turned to military projects. At the Aberdeen Proving Ground in Maryland, he was chief physicist at the Ballistic Research Laboratories from 1942 to 1947 and measured the blast force of bombs and used microwaves to record movements of bullets and other projectiles.
He was one of the original scientists at Brookhaven, set up by the Atomic Energy Commission in 1947 in Upton, N.Y. Brookhaven was one of several national laboratories created to study peaceful applications of atomic energy. Dr. Johnson, who became chairman of its physics department, led efforts to investigate the fundamental nature of matter.
In 1951, he became vice president for research at Raytheon and remained there until retiring in 1965. In his years there, Raytheon worked on electronic countermeasures for the Air Force and on marine electronics, sonar for nuclear-powered submarines and flight-tracking radar. The company also developed the guidance computer for the Apollo spacecraft.
Dr. Johnson was born in Coldwater, Mich. He received a bachelor's degree in mathematics and economics from Amherst College in 1920 and a doctorate in physics from Yale University in 1926.
His first wife, Ann Benedict Johnson, died in 1964. His second wife, Dorothy Durfee Montgomery Johnson, died in 1981.
Surviving are a stepdaughter, Katherine MacGregor of Chicago; a stepson, Charles Montgomery of Peterborough, N.H., and two brothers, Corbett Johnson of Seneca Lake, N.Y., and Lyman Johnson of Silver Spring, Md.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

TICKER: RTN (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (58%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (90%); EARTH (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (77%); EQUATOR (77%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: RAYTHEON CO (58%); BROOKHAVEN NATIONAL LABORATORY (58%); BROOKHAVEN NATIONAL LABORATORY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: BROOKHAVEN NATIONAL LABORATORY (58%); BROOKHAVEN NATIONAL LABORATORY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); MARYLAND, USA (90%); EARTH (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (77%); EQUATOR (77%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (97%); PHYSICS (91%); PARTICLE PHYSICS (89%); TEST LABORATORIES (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); MOUNTAINS (75%); SONAR SYSTEMS (74%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (73%); LAKES (72%); RADAR SYSTEMS (71%); WORLD WAR II (70%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (70%); AIR FORCES (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); NAVAL VESSELS (64%); STEPPARENTS (63%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, THOMAS H; BURKHART, FORD ANN LIVERMORE (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 1998



374 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 525 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: COMMODITIES;
Oil Prices Tumble as Producers Give No Signal of Restraint

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Futures contracts for crude oil fell 5.6 percent to the lowest level in more than nine years yesterday on skepticism that OPEC, which supplies a third of the world's oil, would cut production to reduce a glut.
The latest drop means prices have fallen 31 percent since late November, when the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries decided to raise its production quota by 10 percent. On Friday, OPEC postponed a committee meeting that had been set for yesterday, reducing the chance that the group would soon cut output. 
 "The only salvation for prices is if OPEC stopped producing more than their quota," said Robert Nance, president of the Nance Petroleum Corporation in Billings, Mont. "It appears they're not going to do that."
Crude oil for April delivery fell 78 cents, to $13.28 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. That was the lowest closing price for next-month delivery of crude since Oct. 25, 1988. It was the biggest one-day decline in crude since a drop of 83 cents on Oct. 6.
Saudi Arabia, the world's largest producer, and Venezuela, considered OPEC's biggest quota violator, have rejected calls from other member nations to cut production.
In London, April Brent crude fell 45 cents, or 5.2 percent, to $12.37 a barrel on the International Petroleum Exchange, the lowest for a near-month contract since Nov. 21, 1988.
The decline in crude spilled into refined products as well. April heating oil fell 1.73 cents, or 4.3 percent, to 38.52 cents a gallon, the lowest closing price since Oct. 7, 1988. April gasoline fell 2.01 cents, or 4.3 percent, to 45.24 cents a gallon, the lowest since Sept. 28, 1994.
Several OPEC members, like Libya and Indonesia, have said they want to expand the committee meeting into a gathering of all 11 members to discuss cutting production to bolster prices.
The prospect of a full meeting and output reductions are still far off, the Middle East Economic Survey said, because Saudi Arabia will not agree. Also, Venezuela has shown no sign of ending its policy of producing above its OPEC quota.
"People are disappointed OPEC has not come forward to do anything," said Tom Bentz, an energy trader at Cresvale International in New York. "There's still no sign of a rescue effort."
Perhaps as much as $2 a barrel of the drop can be attributed, he added, to diminished concern about a United States attack on Iraq, which promised last month to allow United Nations weapons inspections.
Oil traders said that weaker Asian oil demand because of the region's economic turmoil and milder-than-usual winter temperatures in American heating oil markets have also helped prices fall this year.
The decline in futures prices came as the Energy Department reported that the average price of a gallon of gasoline fell last week to the lowest level in more than four years.
Motorists paid an average $1.008 a gallon for regular, unleaded self-service gasoline in the week ended yesterday, according to a weekly survey from the department's Energy Information Administration. That was down from $1.018 a gallon last week and the lowest since $1.007 a gallon on March 21, 1994.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks crude oil prices (near-month contract), since September 1996. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also lists the 52-week highs and lows of selected commodities, along with their closes yesterday and their changes, yesterday, year to date, and over the past 52 weeks.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); 

COUNTRY: SAUDI ARABIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); INDONESIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); IRAQ (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (76%); 

CITY: BILLINGS, MT, USA (56%); LONDON, ENGLAND (55%); 

COMPANY: ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (OPEC) NANCE PETROLEUM CORP (70%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (OPEC) ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAUDI ARABIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); INDONESIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); IRAQ (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (76%); BILLINGS, MT, USA (56%); LONDON, ENGLAND (55%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (93%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (91%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (91%); FUTURES (91%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); FUEL MARKETS (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); HEATING OIL (89%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ENERGY MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); HEATING OIL PRICES (79%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); OIL SPILLS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); INSPECTIONS (66%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (61%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (60%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 1998



375 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
Buoyant Investors Push Dow Above 8,700 for First Time

BYLINE: By SHARON R. KING 

 BODY:
In the psychology of the stock market, buying begets buying.
Major stock market indexes soared to records yesterday, as investors, seeing a rosy economic outlook of declining interest rates and strong corporate profits, rushed to buy stocks. 
 After slipping more than 57 points on Friday, the Dow Jones industrial average surged 116.33 points, or 1.35 percent, to 8,718.85, closing above 8,700 for the first time.
Bank stocks, like J. P. Morgan, telecommunications companies like Worldcom, Lucent and Bell Atlantic, and drug companies like Pfizer were among the leading gainers.
Merger news also continued to buoy markets, as prospective couplings were announced between companies including the Alltel Corporation and 360 Communications, and between Aetna and the health insurance business of New York Life. Other companies, like Liberty Media and the Cendant Corporation, increased takeover bids for BET Holdings and American Bankers Insurance Group, respectively.
The rally also gained momemtum as prices of Treasury bonds rose, pushing down yields, and crude oil prices fell to their lowest levels in more than nine years on fears that a supply glut will continue.
"The message coming from the market is that things look perfect," said Hugh Johnson, chief investment officer at the First Albany Corporation.
Despite the lofty levels of stock prices and price-earnings ratios, investors feel compelled to purchase stocks, rather than err on the side of caution and miss out as the market moves higher, Mr. Johnson said.
Since the beginning of the year, the Dow has risen 810.60 points, or 10.25 percent.
Yesterday, the Standard & Poor's 500 index gained 1 percent, or 10.66 points, to 1,079.27, another record. It is up 11.22 percent this year. The technology-laden Nasdaq composite index picked up 16.52 points to 1,788.18, a new high and has risen 13.87 percent in 1998.
The gains yesterday were fueled by comments from Warren Buffett, the chairman of Berkshire Hathaway and a famed value investor. In Berkshire Hathaway's annual report, released over the weekend, Mr. Buffett said he did not believe that the stock market was overvalued now, given the current level of interest rates and the strong profit margins posted by American companies.
Mr. Buffett also said that he was having a hard time finding stocks that are cheap, but investors seemed to pay little attention to that statement. In fact, Walt Disney shares rose $3.625, to $110.625, despite news that Berkshire had sold more than three million of its shares last year.
Over all, Mr. Buffett "gave reassurance to investors that stocks aren't a bad place to be," said Tom Galvin, the chief equity strategist at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	Bond Prices Move Higher
 
 
 The prices of Treasury securities rose yesterday, helped by a firm dollar and by the continuing drop in oil prices.
The price of the benchmark 30-year bond rose 1/2, to 103 23/32, and the yield, which moves in the opposite direction, fell to 5.86 percent from 5.89.
Oil prices fell yesterday to their lowest level in more than nine years, which should help keep inflation at bay; bond investors are wary of inflation because it erodes the value of their holdings.
Traders said the results of the Treasury's weekly auction of short-term bills yesterday were typical,with the average discount rate of a three-month bill at 4.985 percent, only slightly higher than the 4.970 percent a week ago. The six-month bill came in at an average rate of 5.025 percent, up from 5.010 percent.
The following are the results of the auction:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Average Price	98.740	97.460	Discounted Rate	4.985%	5.025%	Coupon Yield	5.118%	5.227%	High Price	98.740	97.460	Discounted Rate	4.985%	5.025%	Coupon Yield	5.118%	5.227%	Low Price	98.744	97.467	Discounted Rate	4.970%	5.010%	Coupon Yield	5.102%	5.212%	Accepted at low price	41%	42%	Total applied for	$43,351,493	$40,446,453	Accepted	$9,440,682	$10,959,935	Noncompetitive	$1,347,326	$1,155,167	

Both issues are dated March 19, 1998. The three-month bills mature on June 18, 1998, and the six-month bil mature on Sept. 17, 1998.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since March of 1997. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CAR (NASDAQ) (69%); GLCH (NASDAQ) (68%); PFZ (LSE) (57%); PFE (NYSE) (57%); VZC (LSE) (57%); VZ (NYSE) (57%); BRK.B (NYSE) (53%); BRK.A (NYSE) (53%); DIS (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (70%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (70%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (70%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (70%); NAICS532120 TRUCK, UTILITY TRAILER & RV (RECREATIONAL VEHICLE) RENTAL & LEASING (69%); NAICS532111 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (69%); SIC7519 UTILITY TRAILERS & RECREATIONAL VEHICLE RENTAL (69%); SIC7514 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (69%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (68%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (68%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (57%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (57%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (57%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (56%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (53%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (53%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (53%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (51%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (51%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (51%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (51%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ALLTEL CORP (70%); AVIS BUDGET GROUP INC (69%); GLEACHER & CO INC (68%); PFIZER INC (57%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (57%); NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE CO (56%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (53%); WALT DISNEY CO (51%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S STOCK INDEX; UNITED STATES ECONOMY STOCK INDEXES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); BONDS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MERGERS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); HEALTH INSURANCE (75%); TREASURY SECURITIES (73%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (73%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (68%); 

PERSON: KING, SHARON R; BUFFETT, WARREN WARREN BUFFETT (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 1998



376 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1210 words

HEADLINE: Omaha Tribe Turns to Cigarettes for a Better Life

BYLINE: By PAM BELLUCK 

DATELINE: MACY, Neb.

 BODY:
The thrumming green machines in the new factory here are the hope of the Omaha Indian tribe. Early sales are encouraging, and soon the tribe will be tripling production.
"Our dream," said Jerry Montour, the factory's consultant, "is to have like 100 people working here at one time." 
 And who would quarrel with that?
As it turns out, many might. The Omaha tribe is manufacturing cigarettes.
Even if the factory were not in a building that previously held the tribe's health club and wellness center, the debut of the Omaha Nation Tobacco Company might seem a little misguided.
After all, big cigarette companies are under fierce fire from states and the Federal Government, with proposed legislation and lawsuit settlements designed to force them to restrict cigarette advertising, raise prices and pay penalties to cover the costs of smoking-related afflictions like lung cancer and heart disease.
And those afflictions hit Indians particularly hard. Cancer and heart disease rates are rising faster among American Indians than in the general population, smoking is much more common than in other groups and Indians start smoking at a younger age.
Several tribes have even filed lawsuits in tribal courts against companies like Philip Morris, seeking direct compensation for illnesses related to tobacco, instead of relying on money that states expect to receive. The Omaha are thinking of filing such a suit as well, said the tribe's Washington lawyer, Robert Rosette.
"Smoking is much more severe on Indian reservations and has a much harsher impact," Mr. Rosette said. "As a sovereign government we have just as much right to recoup from the big tobacco companies."
Still, Mr. Rosette argued: "You can't mix that in with our manufacturing cigarettes, because we're a legal business.
"We have a great product, and we need avenues to get it out in the market."
If the logic seems cloudy, it is largely a reflection of the circumstances many Indian tribes are grappling with these days.
Facing high unemployment, poverty and dwindling Federal grants, reservations, especially in remote areas, are struggling to create jobs. They have only a few economic advantages over non-Indian communities, including the right to operate casinos, and to be exempt from state taxes on gasoline and cigarettes sold on Indian land.
The Omaha, whose reservation spills from northeastern Nebraska over the Missouri River into Iowa, is the first tribe to start a cigarette company. But it will soon be joined by another, the Confederate Tribes of the Chehalis Reservation, near Seattle, which is investing enough to add two assembly lines to the one in the Omaha factory and is setting up a cigarette plant on its own reservation. Mr. Montour said another joint venture is being negotiated with an East Coast tribe.
"People aren't going to stop smoking," said Gary Lasley, Omaha tribal chairman, puffing on an Omaha Full-Flavor cigarette. "They're addicted now."
Omaha leaders even traveled to Washington recently to testify before the Senate Indian Affairs Committee, hoping to influence Federal legislation to exempt tribal manufacturers from some penalties and proscriptions on big tobacco companies. They want out of advertising restrictions like a proposed ban on cartoon characters (Omaha cigarette packs feature an Indian's face) and absolution from payments for illnesses that predate the Omaha company's existence.
While these special pleadings are unlikely to be endorsed by the Indian Affairs Committee, the committee is likely to recommend that tribes be able to excuse themselves from price increases or marketing bans that state governments layer on top of whatever Federal restrictions are approved.
That means tribal cigarettes could not only continue to hold an edge on Indian land, but even off reservations in some states. To Indian leaders this is only fair, given the tribes' historical and ceremonial use of tobacco.
"We understand there's a lot of negativity about the tobacco industry right now, but we're not the ones who misrepresented and did all the marketing to teen-agers," Mr. Montour said. "Native Americans have been involved in tobacco for hundreds of years."
Roped by fields yellow-gray with corn stubble, the Omaha reservation is home to about 3,400 of the tribe's 6,000 members and has 60 percent unemployment.
Six years ago, the tribe opened Casino Omaha on its Iowa property, but profits have been gutted by competing riverboat casinos.
Since September, when the tribe began selling its cigarettes, made from North Carolina tobacco, it has taken orders from 26 tribes around the country and a few off-reservation outlets, and is promoting its product overseas.
On reservations, without state taxes, the cigarettes cost just 80 cents a pack, less than half the price of big-name brands. Even off-reservation stores are keeping prices low.
"It actually has doubled our cigarette profits," said Lance G. Morgan, whose company, Ho-Chunk Inc., sells Omahas for 99 cents at its Amoco store in South Sioux City, Iowa. (He said a local Marlboro representative was irked enough to insist the store not upstage Marlboros with Omaha displays.)
"I switched myself -- from Marlboro Medium to Omaha Lights," said Harry B. Wallace, the chief of Unkechaug Indian Nation in Mastic, N.Y., and the brand's New York distributor. He is working on a Web site and planning advertisements trumpeting the cigarettes as "Indian made" and without chemical additives.
Nationally, more than 36 percent of American Indians smoke. But even though heart disease and cancer are the leading causes of Indian deaths, Omaha officials say these afflictions are not their first health priority.
"The life expectancy isn't high enough for there to be a lot of cancer," said Greg Phillips, the tribe's vice chairman, who said the average tribe member dies at 57. More obvious threats, he said, are alcoholism and diabetes.
"Are they going to object when we try to manufacture Twinkies?" he said.
Dr. Nathaniel Cobb, director of cancer prevention and control for the Indian Health Service, has heard this before. "When someone dies of lung cancer they're usually in their 60's or older and they usually die pretty quickly, and it's sad, but it's not devastating to the community, compared to alcoholism or suicide," Dr. Cobb said. "There's a little disconnect there."
To Omaha tribal leaders, the priority is jobs -- they even use 20-year-old cigarette machines that require more than twice as many employees as modern ones.
Norman Walker, 62, the tribe's longtime alcoholism counselor, now mans the vestibule. His cousin, Sterling Walker, 37, who was an unemployed construction worker, became the factory floor supervisor -- and started smoking. Amelia Morris, 24, a former welfare recipient who is pregnant with her fifth child, now scoops freshly rolled cigarettes off a conveyor belt.
Employees said the health implications did not bother them because people would smoke anyway. But some on the reservation are uncomfortable.
"Maybe there's something else besides cigarettes," said the wellness center director, Barry Webster, whose basketball court and weight rooms were bumped to a smaller building. "Why not souvenirs?"

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Omaha Indian tribe has high hopes for its new cigarette factory in Macy, Neb. Liza Saunsoci scooped up freshly rolled cigarettes. (Kevin Moloney for The New York Times)
 
Map of Nebraska showing location of Macy: Omaha Full-Flavor cigarettes are now being made in Macy, Neb.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS311920 COFFEE AND TEA MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2095 ROASTED COFFEE (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEBRASKA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); OMAHA, NE, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: PHILIP MORRIS USA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MACY (NEB); UNITED STATES (92%); NEBRASKA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); OMAHA, NE, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: SMOKING AND TOBACCO; INDIANS, AMERICAN; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; LABOR; OMAHA INDIANS; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; SUITS AND LITIGATION TOBACCO MFG (91%); SMOKING (90%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (90%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (75%); LUNG CANCER (75%); JOB CREATION (74%); GASOLINE (73%); HEART DISEASE (73%); CANCER (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); EMPLOYMENT (72%); SMOKING CESSATION (71%); LAWYERS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); LEGISLATION (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REGULATION (69%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (69%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); GRANTS & GIFTS (65%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (64%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (61%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (61%); FUEL TAX (50%); 

PERSON: BELLUCK, PAM MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 1998



377 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1450 words

HEADLINE: A Tough Town, on Screen Anyway;
Despite Drop in Crime, New York's Gritty Image Prevails

BYLINE: By GLENN COLLINS 

 BODY:
Even on the station house set, reality can no longer be denied: crime is continuing its precipitous decline in New York City. And as they hung out in their famously scruffy squad room between takes, Detectives Leonard W. Briscoe and Reynaldo Curtis, New York's quintessential crime stoppers, were pondering what it meant when truth was safer than fiction.
"If this continues, the detectives could be forced to give out jaywalking tickets," said Jerry Orbach, the actor who plays Detective Briscoe on the NBC police show "Law and Order," which is shot on New York's not-quite-so-mean streets and happens to be the longest-running drama series now on network television. 
 "Maybe you'd have shows where the detectives would be sitting around, just eating doughnuts and drinking coffee," said Benjamin Bratt, who plays Detective Curtis. "You know, the Maytag repairman."
Unimaginably, Gotham -- the perennially reliable crime capital of celluloid classics from "The Naked City" and "Serpico" to more recent films like "The Peacemaker" and "Donnie Brasco," and currently the home turf of those televised homicide festivals "N.Y.P.D. Blue," "Brooklyn South" and "Law and Order" -- is now statistically a safer city than Boise, Idaho.
Moviemakers and television producers are being betrayed by the police blotter. Homicides in New York City last year hit a 30-year low, and the decline has continued so far this year. Other violent crimes also continue to drop. Most ominous of all, for filmmakers who think of "Taxi Driver" as the ultimate New York tale, is the news that the F.B.I. now ranks the city 150th out of the 189 most populous American cities in reported crimes per capita.
"The fact is, we are the safest large city in America," said Howard Safir, New York City's Police Commissioner, "and movies and television shows are giving the wrong impression of New York."
Fearlessly challenging this troublesome trend of goodness, some producers and directors -- particularly for television -- are keeping their fingers in the dike, steadfastly churning out New York mayhem as though they had never heard the words Disney and Times Square in the same sentence.
Others, though, are trying to happy-face the new reality. Even some of the masters who defined the era of New York movie-crime noir are uttering, well, heresy. "I just don't feel New York is menacing now," said the director Sidney Lumet, the laureate of police corruption whose "Serpico," "Prince of the City," "Q & A" and "Night Falls on Manhattan" won critical praise for their evocations of a brooding and soulless metropolis. "The movies and TV created a stereotype of the city," Mr. Lumet said, "but that was then, and this is now."
He added that his next film, "Gloria," to be released in the fall, reflects his revisionist view of New York. Although the story is crime-themed (Sharon Stone is a New York woman on the run from the mob), "you have to portray New York accurately, and I'm portraying it as a beautiful city now," he said. "There is no doubt that the city has changed, and the city itself is not a threat."
Irwin Winkler, a producer of such dark New York classics as "Goodfellas" and "Raging Bull," is also lending the city a new glow in his current project. "At First Sight," starring Val Kilmer, Mira Sorvino, Kelly McGillis and Nathan Lane, is about a man born blind whose sight has been surgically restored. "In this film, Val's character sees New York as a wondrous, magical place," Mr. Winkler said. "Where better to regain your sight?"
But some filmmakers reject the notion of a mid-course correction, pointing out that the new New York isn't exactly Shangri-La. "Tell that to Abner Louima, or mugging victims, or others who've lately had upsetting experiences in New York," said the director Edward Zwick, who is currently shooting a police-heavy terrorist thriller, "Martial Law," around the city with Denzel Washington, Bruce Willis and Annette Bening. "We're delighted that the crime rate is lower, but it still means there are two murders a day," he said, referring to the 767 in the city last year.
Dick Wolf, creator and executive producer of "Law and Order," contends that the new crime statistics do not undercut the credibility of his series, which is in its eighth season. "Look, the number of murders on 'Law and Order' doesn't even add up to three months' homicides in New York," Mr. Wolf said, referring to the show's 175 episodes so far.
He defended the show as "a celebration of New York, and a model of what the criminal justice system should be," adding, "It's a show about catching them and cooking them, and 95 percent of the time they do get cooked." Will he change the series to reflect the new statistical order? "We aren't going to fix what isn't broken," he said.
Ditto from Steven Bochco and David Milch, the co-creators and executive producers of "N.Y.P.D. Blue" and "Brooklyn South." "If we started doing episodes about the lack of crime in New York, we'd be out of business," Mr. Bochco said. "Can you imagine Simone and Sipowicz sitting around, just waiting for Godot?"
Like Mr. Wolf, Mr. Milch defended his two series as depicting "the way in which the criminal atmosphere is compelled to submit to the force of order," he said. Many classic New York crime films "portrayed the police as disempowered or corrupt or compromised," he said, "but our shows are representative of a new prevailing sensibility about the cops -- that they are aggressive, empowered, capable and possessed of a real decency."
The author Peter Maas, whose crime chronicles "The Valachi Papers" and "Serpico" have been made into movies, said filmmakers were "addicted to the notion of New York as the Bad Apple."
"I think there is a vested interest in perpetuating the stereotype of New York," he said. "They have created New York as an alien nation, and they are going to keep doing it for a while, because it plays so well. They will only stop when they decide it doesn't sell anymore."
The city itself also profits handsomely from those who would portray it. Last year, spending on movie, television and other such productions rose to $2.37 billion in New York, from $2.23 billion in 1996, making the film industry the fastest job-growth sector in the city's economy.
"The city certainly likes to have all that work here," said Patricia Reed Scott, New York City's Commissioner of Film, Theater and Broadcasting. She, for one, said she was not going to lecture the filmmakers. "We are not in the business of telling Hollywood not to do some kind of film," she said.
The depiction of New York as a blood-drenched metropolis is a venerable tradition. "Film images of New York as a hotbed of crime date back before 1915, when Raoul Walsh did a silent movie about gangsters on the Bowery called 'Regeneration,' " said Bruce Goldstein, the repertory program director of Film Forum in Manhattan.
But among the citizenry, there is some evidence to suggest that traditional perceptions of New York as a crime den may be changing. Although 43 percent of Americans said New York City was accurately portrayed in movies and on television, a surprising 35 percent said the city is presented "worse than it really is," according to a national New York Times Poll this month.
Of course, New York has not lacked for positive film depictions over the years, either, ranging from Park Avenue drawing-room scenes in the early silents to "On the Town" and Woody Allen's "Manhattan."
Today, on television, "when you have 'Seinfeld,' 'Spin City' and 'Cosby,' how can you say that New York is being depicted unfairly?" asked the comedian Jackie Mason, who himself added to the city's layers of crime scene tape by starring in "The Stool Pigeon," a 1973 film about a mob informant on the run.
Nora Ephron, the writer, director and New York die-hard, contends that the city has been romanticized even in the bloodiest of crime dramas. "New York could not be photographed more lovingly than in 'The Godfather,' and even Sidney's movies are secretly romantic," she said of Mr. Lumet.
She herself is currently romancing the city by shooting her next movie in New York. Titled "You Have Mail," it stars Tom Hanks and Meg Ryan and celebrates "the wonders of New York as a series of small towns," Ms. Ephron said.
But if New York becomes much safer, Mr. Goldstein said, perhaps entrepreneurs "will have to create a New York Noir Land, where they stage crimes for tourists like they stage gunfights at the Universal Studios." And maybe some remakes of old shoot-'em-ups would be in order, he said, suggesting " 'The Returning of Pelham One Two Three' and maybe even 'Escape to New York.' "

GRAPHIC: Photos: S. Epatha Merkerson, left foreground, Jerry Orbach and Benjamin Bratt of "Law and Order." At rear is a crew member. (Stephanie Berger for The New York Times); Mark Kiley, left, and Jon Tenney portray police officers in "Brooklyn South," a homicide-heavy television show that is set guess where.
(Abbot Genser/CBS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: LAW AND ORDER (TV PROGRAM); NYPD BLUE (TV PROGRAM); BROOKLYN SOUTH (TV PROGRAM)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); IDAHO, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); BOISE, ID, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; BOISE (IDAHO); UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); IDAHO, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); BOISE, ID, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CRIME AND CRIMINALS; MOTION PICTURES; TELEVISION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS CRIME RATES (91%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (91%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); FILM (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); TRENDS (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (87%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (78%); VIOLENT CRIME (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); HOMICIDE (78%); NETWORK TELEVISION (75%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (75%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); CORRUPTION (73%); CITIES (73%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (71%); FILM DIRECTORS (71%); VISUAL ARTISTS (66%); NEWS BRIEFS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: COLLINS, GLENN; SAFIR, HOWARD (POLICE COMMISSIONER)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 1998



378 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1866 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Scandal Erodes the Power of Japan's Bastion of Fiscal Austerity

BYLINE: By SHERYL WuDUNN 

DATELINE: TOKYO, March 16

 BODY:
Yoichi Otsuki seemed to be enjoying a life of power and prestige, until he fastened a noose to a curtain rod in his apartment and looped it around his neck.
A longtime official at the Finance Ministry, Mr. Otsuki, 54, was ensconced in an influential job in the ministry's castle-like bastion near the Imperial Palace. Behind these walls, in the "House of the Great Coffers," as it is known in Japan, Mr. Otsuki worked in the nation's nerve center, the most powerful organization in Japan. 
 The ministry's tentacles touch so many facets of political and economic life that its officials wield power without parallel in the West. It has traditionally been more influential than the Prime Minister or any political party, and because it steers the world's second-biggest economy, the Finance Ministry's smallest maneuvers can move financial markets around the globe.
So it has been an extraordinary comedown since late January, when prosecutors first breached the Finance Ministry's seemingly impregnable walls. Thus far, they have arrested four ministry officials, including two of Mr. Otsuki's subordinates, for accepting bribes from the financial institutions they oversee. When prosecutors moved in on Mr. Otsuki, however, he could not stand the humiliation. Just before he was to be interrogated by police at 1:30 P.M. on Jan. 27, Mr. Otsuki went home and hanged himself.
The scandal in which he found himself enmeshed is still unfolding, with critics pointing fingers at prominent officials day after day. Just last Wednesday, prosecutors entered the central bank, traditionally a dominion of the ministry, to seize a high-level official. Private bankers have been detained as well, top executives have resigned at major financial institutions and one Parliament member, another finance ministry official and numerous businessmen have committed suicide to escape disgrace.
The scandal is shattering Japan's old faith in public servants and suggesting to a growing number of Japanese cynics that their bureaucracy may be rotten to the core. With economic troubles dogging all of Asia, the Finance Ministry is the single institution most able to orchestrate a revival of the region, but it increasingly resembles a fortress under siege, attacked both at home and abroad for errant behavior and policy mismanagement.
Critics worry that the ministry may have lost its way at a moment when leaders in the United States and other industrial nations are demanding that it take more steps to help prevent an Asian tailspin. Economists say that by trying to tighten the country's belt even during hard times, the ministry risks throwing Japan into recession.
Japan's politicians, accustomed to staying on the sidelines in formulation of economic policy, are now stepping in to take the lead, further threatening the ministry and preventing its experts from fully concentrating on the task of nursing the sick economy. Particularly on the eve of a broad restructuring of the financial industry, the ministry appears distracted by its scandals and by turf battles with politicians -- battles that it may be beginning to lose.
"There will be a very drastic shift of power from the bureaucrats to the politicians," said Koichi Kato, secretary general of the ruling Liberal Democratic Party. "In the last year, the bureaucrats who were thought to be the best and the brightest in this society, handling all policies, were proved to be not as effective and competent as we had thought. Now it is time for us politicians to make our own policy."
"This is a very dangerous time for us," Mr. Kato said.
A real devolution of power, if it occurs, will have major policy implications for Japan and the world. Just last week, for instance, executives in the governing party indicated they would devise a spending package of more than $80 billion to stimulate the economy.
For now, the Finance Ministry has fended off a formal attempt by Sakigake, a small party in the governing coalition, to break it up into a handful of agencies. Until recently, the ministry was seen as the bedrock of Japanese prosperity, so few balked at the extent of its power -- roughly equivalent to a combination of the United States Treasury Department, the Internal Revenue Service, the Office of Management and Budget, the Securities and Exchange Commission and parts of the Federal Reserve.
Amid recent calls by politicians to curb its powers, however, the ministry has agreed to spin off a financial surveillance agency in June. Both the Finance Minister and the Vice Finance Minister were forced out of their positions earlier this year as casualties of the widening assault on the ministry.
But while the ministry's power appears on the wane for now, its strength and expertise, which make it arguably the most important repository of power outside of Washington, continue to dwarf that of Japan's elected officials. Politicians have called for more spending, but attempts to alter the ministry's steadfast policy of fiscal austerity have bounced off the ministry's stone walls.
Still, the attack on the ministry has been debilitating. Japan's weekly magazines are accusing it of everything from dishonesty to ineptitude. And the public is learning that Finance Ministry officials do not always spend their time laboring in neckties over statistical charts but also have been known to cavort -- sometimes at the invitation of those they are supposed to regulate -- at the raunchiest of sex clubs.
"They are losing control," Toru Nakakita, an economics professor at Toyo University, said of the ministry's bureaucrats. "They are demoralized. They are a group of very proud people, but they made an awful lot of fallacies. They've blundered so many times."
The crisis in the ministry is particularly inopportune because it is supposed to be busy overseeing a "Big Bang" deregulation of the financial markets that aims to make Tokyo a financial center as dynamic and free as New York or London.
Critics point out that the ministry has a checkered record on managing free markets. Economists and politicians blame the ministry for inflating Japan's "bubble" economy during the 1980's, bursting it in the early 1990's and then allowing the economy to stagnate for the last seven years.
At stake for Finance Ministry bureaucrats -- predominantly graduates of the country's top university who are for the most part brilliant, dedicated, but unelected -- is whether they will continue to occupy the center of the Japanese universe. It is unclear what would replace the ministry and how it might usher in changes that would diminish its own powers, enabling the economy to function more freely and openly.
"We're at a crossroads, and the catchword today is transparency," said Kiichi Miyazawa, a former bureaucrat who has served as both Prime Minister and Finance Minister. "This transparency really means sometimes a very, very brutal confrontation, which is not really a part of our culture. But it matters in economics, in legal matters as well. Transparency is the must. That should mean that the discretionary power of the bureaucrats should be reduced."
For years, the ministry had a say in virtually every move a financial institution made, from opening a new branch or closing a subsidiary to introducing a new product to inspecting the giveaways offered in marketing campaigns. One bank told a Japanese newspaper that it felt it had to consult the ministry on the size of dividends a couple of years ago. One banker said privately that sometimes banks felt obliged to confer on the kind of calendars they could offer to customers and the kind of uniforms their female clerical workers could wear.
Ministry officials dispute that, saying that banks setting up new branches would face almost no obstacles as long as they submitted the proper documents with their application. As for picayune issues like uniforms and calendars, one official snorted, though he refused to be named, as did other ministry officials interviewed for this article.
"That's quite unthinkable," he said, adding, "Those stories are quite exaggerated, in my personal opinion."
Ministry officials say they have been on the defensive for some time. "We have been losing power for the last several years," said Sei Nakai, deputy director of the ministry's prestigious banking bureau. "That is why we are being attacked."
"From the outside, it sometimes seems that the Ministry of Finance decides everything, but it's wrong." he added. "We are destined to be a scapegoat."
The ministry is accused not just of economic ineptitude but, perhaps more important in the public mind, of corruption and misbehavior. While lavish entertainment of government officials by corporate executives has long been commonplace in Japan, the public has been particularly angered by the revelation that banks entertained Finance Ministry officials at "no-pan shabu-shabu" clubs.
Shabu-shabu is a kind of cooked meat, but the specialty of the restaurant is the waitresses, who wear short skirts and no underwear: In Japanese, "no-pan" refers to "no panties." So "no-pan shabu-shabu" has become a national joke. The idea of these officials discussing bank regulation in such a setting is so absurd that it is becoming difficult for the ministry to be taken seriously.
Traditionally, ministry bureaucrats had been viewed almost universally as honest and extraordinarily hard-working -- choosing a life of Government service over far more lucrative options in the private sector.
"Somehow it became a fashion of the day to criticize the bureaucrats," said Kaoru Yosano, a prominent Liberal Democratic Party member of the Parliament. "This is a very safe way for politicians."
Often it is the ministry that ends up taking the blame because no one else wants to take responsibility, Mr. Yosano and others say. For instance, when Japanese bankers met with their counterparts from other countries to discuss South Korea's debt crisis, the banks apparently did not want to make a decision without consulting the Finance Ministry, according to Mr. Nakai of the ministry.
Ministry officials read this as a sign that the banks did not want to take the blame if the loans went sour, so they turned to the ministry for guidance and security.
Many say the ministry cannot ignore the blunder it made a year ago when it declared that the economy was recovering and insisted on increasing a national sales tax last April. The tax increase sent the Japanese economy tumbling over a cliff, plunging at an annual rate of 11 percent in the second quarter of 1997.
Ministry officials now admit they underestimated the impact of the sales tax increase. But they also point to a sharply rising fiscal deficit and national debt that is rising faster than that of other advanced countries. So despite American pressure, the officials are determined to proceed with what they call fiscal reconstruction, meaning austerity, to put Japan's budget in order.
The ministry's budget bureau regards this goal as sacred, according to a high-level ministry official who is not in the budget bureau.
With only a touch of levity, he said, "It's a kind of religious sect."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Japanese Finance Ministry's once seemingly impregnable walls have been breached by prosecutors investigating an unfolding corruption scandal that is shattering faith in public servants. (Stuart Isett for The New York Times)(pg. D4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (72%); 

COMPANY: FINANCE MINISTRY (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: FINANCE MINISTRY (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (72%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BRIBERY; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BANKS AND BANKING; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SCANDALS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); POLITICS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); CIVIL SERVICES (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); RECESSION (73%); BRIBERY (72%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); INTERROGATION OF SUSPECTS (67%); TRENDS (66%); EXECUTIVES (66%); SUICIDE (64%); CENTRAL BANKS (64%); 

PERSON: WUDUNN, SHERYL YOICHI OTSUKI (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 1998



379 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: Ruling by Federal Judge on Leasing Planes Worries Airline Industry

BYLINE: By LAURENCE ZUCKERMAN 

 BODY:
An unexpected ruling by a Federal judge in Colorado last week sharply increases the risks associated with financing and leasing airplanes, threatening to depress the value of billions of dollars worth of deals and to make it much harder for new and financially troubled airlines to get airplanes, said lawyers and an airline industry analyst.
The ruling, by Judge John L. Kane Jr. of the United States District Court in Denver, severely weakens a provision in the bankruptcy code that gives special protection to companies that finance airplane purchases and lease airplanes. Many airlines lease aircraft to expand their fleets without having to tie up millions of dollars buying aircraft. 
 The provision, known as Section 1110, was intended to give leasing companies the right to repossess their airplanes if an airline in Chapter 11 defaults on its lease payments after a 60-day grace period. The provision gives investors confidence to put up the millions of dollars needed to buy commercial jets because they believe they can take back the planes quickly and lease them to another operator if an airline defaults.
But Judge Kane ruled that if an airline makes good on its lease payments during the 60-day grace period and then defaults again, the leasing company does not automatically get to take its plane back and must wait in line with other creditors.
Philip Baggaley, the chief airline analyst at Standard & Poor's, which rates billions of dollars worth of debt used to finance airplanes each year, called the decision "amazing."
"If that interpretation is upheld, not only would few creditors and lessors be willing to extend credit, Standard & Poor's might have to downgrade a lot of debt," he said.
The decision stems from an appeal of a bankruptcy court ruling by Western Pacific Airlines and Smith Management Inc., a New York investment firm that invested more than $24 million in the Colorado carrier after it filed for Chapter 11 in October. At issue was a relatively minor point: whether Western Pacific had 30 days before it had to return 10 airplanes after defaulting on its lease payments the second time, or less time, as the leasing companies argued.
But Judge Kane ruled that Western Pacific was not obligated to give up the planes at all unless the bankruptcy judge decided it should. Western Pacific announced on Feb. 4 that it would stop flying, and the leasing companies have reclaimed their 10 planes. But the decision opens the door for Western Pacific to ask for the planes back and lease them at a higher rate to another airline so that Smith Management can earn back some of its investment.
But getting the planes back may not be so easy. Boullion Aircraft Holding, which leased three 737's to Western Pacific, has already transferred two of the planes to Southwest Airlines and is very close to signing a lease agreement on the third, said Brad Johnson, the company's general counsel. He said that he did not think that Smith Management, which is behind Western Pacific's legal maneuvers, was interested in actually taking possession of the planes.
"We have received repeated letters from Smith asking for money," he said. "What they want is the ability to make some money off the airplanes, not the airplanes themselves."
Smith Management declined to comment yesterday.
Mr. Johnson would not say whether Boullion would appeal Judge Kane's decision. Short of that, the leasing companies have 10 days from last week's ruling to ask the judge to reconsider his decision.
Many people are concerned not so much about the current case as about the larger issue of what Judge Kane's decision would mean to the airplane leasing and finance industry if it is allowed to stand.
"The whole theory of Section 1110 was to give special protection because of the importance of the airline industry to the economy," said Marvin E. Jacob, a partner at Weil Gotshal & Manges in New York who specializes in airline bankruptcy. "If there is nothing special about being an aircraft lessor, there should be nothing special about airline financing. The increased risk will have to be factored into the price."
Mr. Baggaley of Standard & Poor's said, "Creditors will be much less willing to finance aircraft for weak and start-up airlines if they believe that they will not be able to repossess the aircraft if that airline later fails to meet its obligations."
That would make it even harder for new and small airlines, which have been struggling in recent years, to challenge the major carriers.
Even if Judge Kane's decision is overturned on appeal, some believe that more action will be needed to restore investor confidence. "The damage has been done," Mr. Johnson said. "It's going to take an act of Congress to fix the uncertainty."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LUV (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (50%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (93%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN PACIFIC AIRLINES; SMITH MANAGEMENT SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: WESTERN PACIFIC AIRLINES; SMITH MANAGEMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); COLORADO, USA (93%); DENVER, CO, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; BANKRUPTCIES; RENTING AND LEASING AIRLINES (94%); JUDGES (92%); LEASING INDUSTRY (91%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (88%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (86%); VERDICTS (78%); CAPITAL EQUIPMENT LEASING (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); REPOSSESSION (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); LAWYERS (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); 

PERSON: ZUCKERMAN, LAURENCE; KANE, JOHN L JR (JUDGE) JOHN L KANE JR (90%); BRAD JOHNSON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 1998



380 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1734 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place -- Do Blinders Become Bulls On a Run?;
Wall Street Searches For a Silver Lining In Lower Earnings

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA 

 BODY:
They call it the "confessional season," the period when corporate America begins to warn Wall Street of the troubles that lie ahead.
It is a time near the end of each quarter when companies begin to leak out their bad news, acknowledging slowing sales growth at home, declining sales abroad, backlogs in inventory and cyclical downturns in business. 
 Walt Disney, Nike, Intel and Compaq Computer have all made dire first-quarter forecasts, causing Wall Street stock analysts to lower their estimates not just for these companies but for the market over all. And these analysts, according to First Call Inc., which tracks earnings estimates, now expect profits at the nation's biggest companies to grow less than 2 percent in the first quarter, the slowest pace of the decade.
But attention is beginning to shift to the end of the year. Will the coming slowdown be just a blip or something more sustained? Expectations for the second half of the year remain quite robust from stock analysts, an optimistic group by nature. By their count, profits could show tremendous gains, up 17 percent in the fourth quarter.
Perhaps this explains why the stock market has rocketed to records in the face of weakening results. But if these forecasts prove overly optimistic, as some vocal market strategists suggest, investors may be in for a sharp selloff in the latter part of the year.
"We think there's going to be a big squeeze on profits this year," said Cynthia Latta, an economist at DRI/McGraw-Hill. "We're calling it a big turning-point year."
Indeed, after six years of mostly double-digit profit gains, the case for a longer-lasting slowdown is growing. Labor costs are rising, companies are grappling with the year 2000 problem, and the economic squeeze in Asia is only beginning to take its toll on American business. And after years of restructuring and productivity improvements, companies appear to be running out of ways to expand their profit margins.
Even the rosy stock analysts now accept that these factors have conspired against companies early this year. First Call said that estimates have been "falling like a stone" in recent weeks. I.B.E.S. International Inc., another earnings watcher, said that estimates suffered the largest downward revision last month in more than five years. Since Jan. 9, estimates of first-quarter earnings growth have plummeted from 10 percent for the stocks in the Standard & Poor's 500 to 2 percent, the lowest since 1991.
"We haven't seen anything like this since the recession of 1990," said James E. Glassman, a senior economist at Chase Securities. "Throughout the 90's we've been spoiled; we've only seen double-digit growth. So this year could be sobering."
The same people racing to ratchet down their early-year forecasts -- Wall Street analysts -- are undaunted, forecasting a pickup in growth in the second half that will lead to a 10 percent profit gain for the entire year. But many economists and market strategists, who look at the big economic forces instead of the prospects for individual companies, are forecasting a more sizable slowdown, well below last year's 11 percent growth rate.
The most optimistic among this group forecast 8 percent gains in corporate profits; the less optimistic see gains of less than 5 percent.
Corporate outlooks start with the economy, which grew at a 3.8 percent clip last year -- the fastest pace in a decade. Blue-chip profits jumped nearly three times as much.
So the question is: can blue-chip companies produce solid gains in the eighth year of an economic cycle, and extend the longest continuous period of profit growth on record? "I don't think so," Ms. Latta said.
The financial crisis in Asia -- seen last October as the prime threat to the great bull market of the 1990's -- is a big factor, she says, but just one among many.
For instance, the unemployment rate in the United States is 4.6 percent, the lowest in 24 years, and as corporations struggle to find skilled workers and retain their best employees, pressure mounts for higher wages and more training programs. That means corporate costs could rise and cut into earnings growth.
"We've got rising labor costs, rising fringe benefit costs and fierce competition, and so margins are getting squeezed," Ms. Latta said. "We're probably not going to see as much of a productivity gain this year."
There are also currency problems emanating from a strong dollar and a widening trade deficit because of cheaper imports from Asia. Eastman Kodak, for instance, said that profits declined 38 percent in the fourth quarter, partly because of the strong dollar.
If the stock market's recent strength is any indication of investor sentiment, many are dismissing the earnings warnings and cautionary tales, perhaps because they have heard them so many times during the great bull market of the 1990's.
The Dow Jones industrial average -- after a record three consecutive years with gains of 20 percent or more -- is up 10 percent this year. And the S. & P. 500, a broader gauge, is up 11 percent.
Such gains have pushed stock valuations into record territory. The price-to-earnings ratio on S. & P. 500 stocks has reached 26, meaning that investors are paying about $26 for every $1 earned by those companies in the last year.
Share prices generally reflect future earnings prospects instead of past gains. But even on that basis, stocks are trading at 20 times future earnings, at or near a historic high.
"The only way you can support these kinds of ratios is to see profit margins expand," said Steven Leuthold, an analyst at the Leuthold Group in Minneapolis. "And I don't think we're going to see that."
The threats to the market are several. Byron R. Wien, the United States investment strategist at Morgan Stanley, Dean Witter and a long-time bear, expects a big economic growth spurt will come in the second part of the year, pushing up interest rates and knocking stocks for a loss.
Others, pointing to Asia's continuing economic woes, expect the economy to go in the opposite direction.
"Those who think this is a one-quarter phenomenon in Asia are just not in touch with reality," Mr. Leuthold said. "I've talked to a number of people in Asia and they say that in the U.S. we're just not cognizant of the devastation in Asia."
Of course, there are those, like Abby Joseph Cohen, the co-chairwoman of the investment policy committee at Goldman, Sachs & Company, who expect the slowdown in Asia to temper a robust economy in America and eliminate the need for the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates, a positive for stocks.
Profits may moderate, she says, but the United States economy is like a "supertanker," not the fastest or flashiest ship on the sea, but because of a well-balanced economy and well-managed companies, perhaps the sturdiest.
To some strategists, the earnings numbers in recent years seem almost too good to be true. Skeptics say that companies have managed their earnings, through such things as special charges and mergers, to the point where creative accounting can no longer help them out.
Barton Biggs, the erudite global strategist at Morgan Stanley, likens the American stock market to the Titanic, and he has written repeatedly about how companies distort their earnings through accounting sleight of hand. "It is well known that the S. & P. 500 sells at the highest valuations of earnings in history," Mr. Biggs wrote recently. "But it is less well recognized that the index's earnings are overstated.
"For example, a company may take care of a mistake with a one-time writeoff, in which it also buries other expenses that are to come. In effect, future earnings are enhanced."
James S. Chanos, president of Kynikos Associates, a New York firm that specializes in betting on which stocks are poised to fall, agrees. "Earnings quality has gone downhill," he said. "The longer the bull market has lasted, the lower the quality of earnings companies have reported. We're seeing companies play games in write-offs.
"Companies know they have to show bottom-line earnings growth," Mr. Chanos added. "So by hook or by crook they'll do it."
In fact, the S. & P. earnings game is becoming so difficult to understand -- in part because of the recent changes in how companies report earnings -- that Ms. Latta at DRI/McGraw-Hill says she does not trust her own firm's projections for S. & P. 500 growth in 1998.
She does, however, trust her projections for earnings growth for all United States corporations, as listed in statistics compiled by the Commerce Department's Bureau of Economic Analysis. Those figures have steadily fallen, from 16 percent in 1995 to about 8 percent in 1997, she said. Her projection for 1998 is just 1.2 percent.
If earnings slow sharply, that could depress share prices, which have vastly outpaced earnings growth since the 1980's.
Although earnings growth and share prices tend to rise equally over time, they alternate leadership roles, according to a Federal Reserve study released last year. And for a long stretch, since 1982, share prices have been the leader, with an average annual stock gain of 12 percent, compared with an average earnings gain of 8 percent.
"The implication is that we're in the next 15-year period, when earnings will do better than the index," said Robert Farrell, a longtime strategist at Merrill Lynch. "And if that's the case, we can't afford to have earnings disappoint."
Still, shares of many companies are soaring. Even companies that have warned of trouble ahead -- or had their earnings estimates slashed in the last month -- have done well.
Disney and Intel, for instance, saw sharp declines after issuing earnings warnings, but remain strong this year, with shares of each up 11 percent. Sears, Roebuck warned of a 50 percent decline in first-quarter profits because of difficulty in its credit card business, but its shares are up 30 percent. A month ago, Nike warned of profit trouble, caused by sales declines and inventory buildups in Asia and the United States. Still, shares are up 15.5 percent.
A growing array of economists and market historians are baffled.
"It's like all news is good news," Mr. Farrell of Merrill Lynch said. "I've spent my life saying the market's right, but the sustainability of this is questionable if earnings are going to disappoint beyond a quarter or two."

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "What, Me Worry?"
Even though the bull market continues to charge ahead, corporate profits are being squeezed for the first time in years. Wall Street stock analysts have sharply cut their forecasts for earnings growth in the first half of the year, but they remain optimistic about the future. So far, despite initial wariness, investors have largely shrugged off the warnings from some of the biggest companies. Graph tracks year-over-year change in earnings for companies in the S. & P. 500. Graph runs from 1980 through a quarterly forecasted 1998. Graph also tracks the daily stock prices of Disney, Intel, and Sears, for the last three months (Sources: Lehman Brothers; First Call; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. D1)
 
Graph: "Reversal of Fortune"
Over time, corporate earnings and stock prices have grown at roughly the same pace, 8 percent. But according to a Federal Reserve study, these rates of growth rarely coincide. In the current bull market, stocks have outpaced earnings, a trend history suggests may end soon.
 
S. & P. 500 annualized rate of return
 
'37- '51
STOCKS -- 3.6%
EARNINGS -- 8.8%
 
'52-'66
STOCKS -- 10.0%
EARNINGS -- 6.2%
 
'67-'81
STOCKS -- 3.4%
EARNINGS -- 7.6%
 
'82-'96
STOCKS -- 12.3%
EARNINGS -- 7.8%
 
(Source: Kansas City Federal Reserve)(pg. D9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (57%); INTC (NASDAQ) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (63%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (57%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (57%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (57%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (57%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: DRI/MCGRAW-HILL (66%); I/B/E/S INTERNATIONAL INC (63%); WALT DISNEY CO (57%); INTEL CORP (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); SALES FIGURES (78%); BONDS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (77%); RECESSION (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (50%); 

PERSON: BARBOZA, DAVID MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 1998



381 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 443 words

HEADLINE: Loss at Micron Technology Much Steeper Than Expected

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE M. FISHER 

 BODY:
Stung by pricing pressure from Asian competitors, Micron Technology Inc. yesterday reported a steeper-than-expected loss for its second fiscal quarter. A major maker of memory chips for personal computers, Micron said it had been hard hit in recent quarters by Asian manufacturers' sales of chips below cost.
Micron's personal computer subsidiary, Micron Electronics Inc., warned last month that it would have an operating loss, which it attributed to pricing pressure on notebook computers, and poor forecasting, which left the company with excess inventory. At that time, Micron also announced plans to reassign about 10 percent of its work force -- roughly 450 people -- and move its California server operations to Idaho, where the company is based. 
 Micron reported its results after the close of the market. Micron shares closed at $33.75, up 75 cents on the New York Stock Exchange. Prices did not change in after-hours trading.
For the quarter ended Feb. 26, Micron reported a net loss of $48.1 million, compared with earnings of $142.7 million, or 67 cents a share on a fully diluted basis, for the corresponding period a year ago. Revenue dropped 14 percent, to $755.4 million, from $876.2 million a year earlier.
Micron said operating losses for its memory chip and personal computer systems operations were partly offset in the fiscal second quarter by a one-time gain of $157 million, or 18 cents a share fully diluted, on the sale of 90 percent of the company's contract manufacturing subsidiary. The quarter also included charges of $13 million resulting from a work force reduction in the PC business and $4 million related to the write-down of chip-making equipment.
Analysts expected a loss of 17 cents a share, according to First Call. Published estimates, however, ranged from 3 cents to 29 cents, with some analysts privately advising clients of a potential loss as high as 40 cents. The actual loss, excluding the one-time gain, was 41 cents.
"Semiconductors was a larger loss than we expected," said Jonathan Joseph, an analyst with Montgomery Securities. "The PC business, at the margin, was about as expected."
Given the tremendous pricing pressure created by the Asian economic crisis, the company has performed about as well as could be expected, he said. "Obviously, they're in an extremely tough environment," he added.
Micron said its semiconductor memory operations lost 26 cents a share fully diluted, on net sales of $283 million, down from $440 million in the first quarter of fiscal 1998. The decline was primarily a result of lower pricing for memory chips and fewer total megabits sold, Micron said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MU (NASDAQ) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (95%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (95%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (72%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (72%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (72%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (72%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (76%); 

STATE: IDAHO, USA (76%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: MICRON TECHNOLOGY INC MICRON TECHNOLOGY INC (95%); WEB.COM INC (72%); MPC CORP (72%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: MICRON TECHNOLOGY INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (76%); IDAHO, USA (76%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS PERSONAL COMPUTERS (92%); MEMORY CHIPS (91%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (91%); COMPUTER CHIPS (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); MEMORY TECHNOLOGY (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); MICROTECHNOLOGY (90%); COMPUTER MAKERS (89%); SEMICONDUCTORS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); ELECTRONICS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (77%); LABOR FORCE (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATION (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%); 

PERSON: FISHER, LAWRENCE M MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 1998



382 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 597 words

HEADLINE: Port Authority Won't Increase Tolls on Bridges and Tunnels

BYLINE: By NICK RAVO 

 BODY:
Tolls on the Port Authority's bridges and tunnels will not go up next year, the authority said yesterday as it announced record profits for 1997 resulting from higher traffic at its bridges, tunnels, airports and rail line.
But the authority's executive director, Robert E. Boyle, refused to rule out increases in PATH train fares and tariffs paid by bus companies at the Port Authority Bus Terminal in Manhattan because those two operations lost money last year. 
 "I don't foresee increasing the tolls," Mr. Boyle said. But he added, "We continue to study the possibility of fare increases, hoping to avoid any increase to the traveling public for as long a period as practicable."
The higher traffic levels, coupled with an accounting adjustment related to the World Trade Center bombing and modest cuts in expenses, produced net income of $161 million -- $72 million, or 81 percent, more than in 1996. Total revenue was $2.2 billion -- $52 million more than revenue in 1996. Operating expenses fell $8 million, to $1.5 billion.
But the PATH line ran a deficit of $166.8 million, and the bus terminal lost $51.2 million. Both losses, though, were smaller than those in 1996.
Almost 20 percent of the agency's profit last year came from a $29.4 million accounting adjustment connected to insurance payments for the losses caused by the bombing of the World Trade Center in 1993. The adjustment also means that the authority has recouped from insurance companies all but $3 million of its losses related to the bombing.
Mr. Boyle attributed the increased traffic to a healthy regional economy and winter weather that was warmer than usual.
Traffic at Kennedy, La Guardia and Newark Airports totaled about 83.9 million passengers, 3.6 percent more than in 1996. At the agency's four bridges -- the George Washington, Bayonne, Goethals and Outerbridge Crossing -- and two tunnels -- the Lincoln and Holland -- total vehicular traffic, measured in the eastbound direction only, was approximately 118 million, 3.9 percent more than 1996 levels. Tolls at these crossings are $4.
On PATH, ridership grew 2.6 percent to about 62.2 million passengers.
John S. Dyson, a special adviser to Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, said, "Most of the gains are a result of growth in New York City and not because of anything they did." The Giuliani administration has long asserted that the Port Authority is biased toward New Jersey at the expense of New York City.
In a statement, Lewis M. Eisenberg, the Port Authority's chairman, said that the agency's strong financial position would allow it to continue its long-term capital development program, including $1.1 billion in improvements this year -- the largest ever spent in one year on capital improvements -- at Kennedy International Airport.
The Port Authority's long-term capital program emphasizes Kennedy, where $4.4 billion in Port Authority and private investment is rebuilding the airport. The agency this year will also begin construction of a light-rail line linking Kennedy to rail lines at Jamaica Station in Queens. At Newark International Airport, it will break ground for the extension of the airport's monorail to the nearby Northeast Corridor rail line.
Cost-cutting at the agency included the elimination of nearly 300 positions through attrition, a retirement incentive program and the privatization of Kennedy's International Arrivals Building and the World Trade Institute. Continued productivity gains on the PATH system and reductions in police overtime also saved money, the agency said.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NY AND NJ; PORT AUTHORITY TRANS-HUDSON CORP (PATH) HUDSON CORP (59%); PORT AUTHORITY (94%); WORLD TRADE CENTER (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: PORT AUTHORITY OF NY AND NJ; PORT AUTHORITY TRANS-HUDSON CORP (PATH) PORT AUTHORITY (94%); WORLD TRADE CENTER (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS; BRIDGES AND TUNNELS; TRANSIT SYSTEMS; PORT AUTHORITY BUS TERMINAL (MANHATTAN); WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) PORT AUTHORITIES (94%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (93%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); BUS STATIONS & TERMINALS (90%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (90%); AIRPORTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); INSURANCE (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (77%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (77%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (76%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (68%); 

PERSON: RAVO, NICK; BOYLE, ROBERT E RUDY GIULIANI (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 1998



383 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 494 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Dow Surges 116 Points, As Market Sets Records
Stock market indexes soared to records, as investors bought on expectations of strong corporate profits and declining interest rates -- the yield on the 30-year Treasury bond fell to 5.86 percent.
The Dow Jones industrial average surged 116.33 points, or 1.35 percent, to 8,718.85, closing above 8,700 for the first time. Since the beginning of the year, the Dow has risen 810.60 points, or 10.25 percent. Page D10. 

Crude oil contracts fell 5.6 percent to the lowest level in more than nine years on skepticism that OPEC will cut output. D10.
 
Micron Loss Exceeds Expectations
Micron Technology, a leading maker of computer memory chips, reported a steeper-than-expected $48.1 million quarterly loss and cited Asian competition. D6.
 
New Japan Central Bank Governor
Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto of Japan appointed as central bank governor Masaru Hayami, left, a former executive director of the bank who later became a powerful business executive. He succeeds Yasuo Matsushita, who offered his resignation last week after a subordinate was arrested in a widening financial corruption scandal. D4.
 
Menem in Rebuff to Business
President Carlos Saul Menem of Argentina, in an uncharacteristic rebuff to big business, plans to propose labor rules that leave populist Peronist laws intact. D7.
 
Aetna-NYLCare Deal Announced
Aetna will purchase the New York Life Insurance Company's health care subsidiary, NYLCare Health Plans, for $1.35 billion. D2.
 
Higher Risk Seen on Airplane Deals
The risks associated with financing and leasing airplanes are expected to rise sharply, as a result of a ruling by a Federal judge in Colorado last week. D3.
 
Kodak to Grant Employees Options
Eastman Kodak, seeking to lift the sagging morale of its 90,000 workers, despite planned dismissals, announced it was granting them stock options. Facing stiff competition from Fuji Photo, it promised to "make a significant dent in losses." Investors reacted positively, sending the company's stock higher. D7.
 
Big Hotel Companies Plan Merger
Capstar Hotel and American General Hospitality agreed to a $530 million merger, combining fast-growing companies that have premium hotels in big cities. D2.
 
Exel in Mid Ocean Deal
Exel, which sells directors' and officers' liability insurance, said that it would pay about $2.1 billion for the 75 percent of Mid Ocean, a reinsurer, that it does not own. D2.
 
Financial Overhaul Bill Criticized
A top Treasury official said that the Republican-sponsored financial overhaul bill, which would let banks, securities firms and insurance companies get into each other's businesses, had "bad provisions." D8.
 
Alltel to Buy 360 Communications
As expected, Alltel, an independent local telephone company, agreed to acquire 360 Communications, a big cellular carrier, for more than $4 billion. D3.

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 8,718.85, Up 116.33
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.86%, Down 0.03
The Dollar -- 129.64 yen, Up 1.49
 
Graphs: "TODAY" track industrial production and housing starts, from August to January.
 
Another graph tracks Eastman Kodak share price since last Monday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: MU (NASDAQ) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (82%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (56%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (56%); NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (53%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE CO (82%); MICRON TECHNOLOGY INC (56%); EASTMAN KODAK CO (53%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); INSURANCE (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); MERGERS (89%); STOCK OPTIONS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (85%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); CARTELS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); BONDS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (74%); REINSURANCE (74%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (74%); MICROTECHNOLOGY (74%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); ARRESTS (72%); SCANDALS (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (70%); MEMORY CHIPS (69%); COMPUTER CHIPS (69%); DIRECTORS & OFFICERS LIABILITY INSURANCE (69%); MEMORY TECHNOLOGY (69%); RESIGNATIONS (67%); CORRUPTION (66%); LIABILITY INSURANCE (64%); LIFE INSURANCE (64%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (62%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (62%); PRIME MINISTERS (53%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 1998



384 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 928 words

HEADLINE: Gore Brings a Little Fire to Kennelly's Race for Governor

BYLINE: By MIKE ALLEN 

DATELINE: STAMFORD, Conn., March 16

 BODY:
The Democratic Party's most famous wooden figure came to Connecticut today to bring life and light to Barbara B. Kennelly's sluggish campaign for Governor.
Vice President Al Gore, at a fund-raising luncheon, told just one stiff-guy joke about himself before adopting a fire-and-brimstone tone in support of Mrs. Kennelly's challenge to Gov. John G. Rowland, a Republican. Much of the banquet-hall buzz was about the accusations of sexual misconduct in the White House, a signal that the visit could have a mixed effect on voters. But Mrs. Kennelly could not have appeared happier to see Mr. Gore. 
 "I know we have a long way to go between now and Election Day," Mr. Gore said. Then, stirring the crowd of 500 to waves of applause, he called her campaign "a great cause" and thundered, "How much intensity are you willing to bring to this campaign? How hard are you willing to fight?"
While Mr. Rowland's campaign seemed to relish the opportunity to link the Kennelly campaign to Washington liberals, Mr. Gore's visit was intended to energize Democratic Party faithful in the state. And it seemed to work.
The Vice President's speech raised $250,000 for Mrs. Kennelly (pronounced keh-NELL-ee), the Representative from the First Congressional District and a daughter of John M. Bailey, who at his death in 1975 was the state's most powerful Democratic leader.
Even her own supporters concede that Mrs. Kennelly's campaign has drifted since she announced her candidacy in September. Today, they said they hoped Mr. Gore's visit would shake the doldrums out of the "Kennelly for Connecticut" campaign.
She has one advantage that no other Democratic candidate for governor has had since 1966: a clear shot at the party's nomination. Her last expected rival, Mayor Joseph P. Ganim of Bridgeport, endorsed her two weeks ago, so she expects to avoid a costly battle in the September primary. Now, she can spend the coming months trying to convert swing voters instead of dividing Democrats.
However, her standing in polls has slipped this winter as she focused on fund-raising and organizing. In the summer before she announced, polls showed her in a statistical tie with Mr. Rowland. By February, she had fallen 26 percentage points behind him, in a poll taken by the University of Connecticut.
Her own supporters have complained that she does not have a clear message and has not been visible enough. "People are not overenthusiastic, because they don't know exactly what her platform is," said Annette W. Carter, a Democrat who represents Hartford in the State House of Representatives. "They're warming up."
Elizabeth A. Marafino, the president of the Congress of Connecticut Community Colleges, a faculty union, said: "She kept herself too isolated in the first few months. I hope she learned a lesson."
Mrs. Kennelly says that she has. Hoping to capitalize on some new momentum from Mr. Gore's visit, Mrs. Kennelly plans to move on several fronts to reassure her partisans. She has begun a tour of Connecticut's 169 cities and towns, with plans to walk the main street of each one. On March 29, she hopes to capture some of the hoopla associated with this month's college basketball finals by holding simultaneous March Madness House Parties at 100 homes throughout the state. A campaign video will be shown and each host is being asked to invite 20 people and ask each one for $20.
Also, Democratic officials said campaign officials plan to announce a new manager, probably from outside Connecticut, within several weeks. The current manager, James E. Meehan, said he was interested in another role in the campaign. "I'm not a professional politician," said Mr. Meehan, formerly an insurance lawyer. "The goal here is to win in November."
Fergus P. Cullen, Mr. Rowland's deputy campaign manager, said Democrats "may be unified, but that doesn't make them enthusiastic."
"Just because she has cleared the field, after a surprising struggle, doesn't solve the Democrats' raw material problem," Mr. Cullen said. "She is a poor speaker, and she is a consistent and reliable vote for the liberal Democratic leadership in Washington."
Mr. Rowland, 40, is emphasizing his gubernatorial role and has so far mostly ignored Mrs. Kennelly, 61. "The campaign will come later," Mr. Cullen said.
Instead, the Governor is using his office to full advantage. On Mrs. Kennelly's big campaign day today, he rode a Metro-North train into the South Norwalk station to highlight several state plans for relieving congestion on Interstate 95, including more than $50 million in previously announced renovations at railroad stations. "All aboard!" Mr. Rowland said jovially, turning to glad-hand local business leaders.
A few hours later and eight miles away at the Stamford Marriott, Democrats dining on poached New England salmon with Mr. Gore said the Governor's popularity, his statewide visibility and the state's improving economy were high hurdles for Mrs. Kennelly.
She has taken some ribbing for her propensity for oratorical fender-benders. During her remarks today, she stumbled by referring to Mr. Gore as "Mr. President," then awkwardly corrected herself. But the audience liked it the first way, and whooped with delight.
She quickly ran through an agenda that will include reducing juvenile crime, making college more affordable, encouraging lower property tax rates, and increasing discipline and standards in elementary schools. "Connecticut absolutely can do better than it's doing today, and I want to lead the state," she said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vice President Al Gore at a Stamford fund-raiser for Barbara B. Kennelly, right. Since announcing in September, she has dropped 26 percentage points behind Gov. John G. Rowland, according to one poll. (James Estrin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (97%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT STATE HOUSE PRESS (50%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (97%); CONNECTICUT, USA (97%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); FINANCES; PUBLIC OPINION GOVERNORS (91%); FUNDRAISING (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (86%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); LIBERALISM (75%); MISCONDUCT (71%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (70%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (63%); TEACHER UNIONS (50%); 

PERSON: ALLEN, MIKE; GORE, AL (VICE PRES); KENNELLY, BARBARA BAILEY (REPR); ROWLAND, JOHN G (GOV) AL GORE (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 1998



385 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1256 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-11
 
Vatican Offers Repentance For Holocaust Failings
The Vatican offered a document it called an "act of repentance" for the failure of Roman Catholics to deter the slaughter of Europe's Jews during the Holocaust. But the document skirted the issue of the church's long silences during the Nazi era. A1 

New Cabinet in Indonesia
A nationalist-oriented Cabinet took office in Indonesia, which faces tough negotiations with international lenders over how to dig the country out of its economic crisis. A3
 
Compromise on Israel Visit
Israel and Foreign Secretary Robin Cook of Britain resolved a dispute over his plan to visit the site of a disputed new Jewish neighborhood in eastern Jerusalem by agreeing that he would go there with Israeli officials, not Palestinians. A5
 
Sonia Gandhi's Role Expanded
Sonia Gandhi, the Italian-born standard-bearer for India's most famous political family, moved to take full control of the Congress Party, setting up an intriguing battle between her, as the leader of the chief opposition party, and the Hindu nationalist Government that is to be sworn in on Thursday. A6
 
New Role for China Premier
China's new leadership lineup was partly completed as the National People's Congress, which is the national legislature, elected as its next chairman Li Peng, who has been Prime Minister for 10 years. A6
 
More Names of the Missing
The names of 9,000 people, many of them Spaniards or their descendants, who disappeared during the Argentine military dictatorship were presented to a judge in Madrid, widening his inquiry into Argentine-sponsored terrorism. A4
 
Iraq Wants War Crimes Trial
Iraq's Parliament will recommend that President Clinton and other Western leaders be brought to trial for war crimes against the Iraqi people, the official Iraqi News Agency said. The action is in retaliation for a United States Senate vote on Friday urging the United Nations to form a tribunal to try President Saddam Hussein of Iraq for war crimes, the report said, quoting a National Assembly committee chairman. (AP)
 
Arrest in Belfast Jail Death
The police in Northern Ireland arrested an inmate in the jail cell hanging of a pro-British militant, David Keys. The police said the suspect was a compatriot of Mr. Keys in the Loyalist Volunteer Force. (AP)
 
Results Strengthen French Left
France's political parties jockeyed for leadership of the country's regions after the governing Socialists defeated conservative parties in local elections. In official results, the Socialists and their leftist allies won nearly 40 percent of the vote Sunday. Mainstream conservative parties won 36 percent, while the far-right National Front won 15 percent. (AP)
 
NATIONAL A12-23
 
Health Care Law Flawed, A Report to Congress Says
A 1996 law hailed as a way to guarantee health insurance for millions of Americans when they change jobs or lose coverage is not working as Congress intended, a report by Congressional investigators said. A1
 
Separate Training Is Rejected
Secretary of Defense William S. Cohen rejected a special panel's recommendation that the Army, Navy and Air Force segregate men and women for much of basic training, but he ordered changes in recruiting, training and housing for new recruits in all services. A1
 
Sergeant Major Is Demoted
A military jury sentenced Sgt. Maj. Gene C. McKinney, once the Army's top enlisted soldier, to be reprimanded and demoted one rank, after his court-martial conviction for obstruction of justice. He will retire and receive a pension for his 29 years of military service. It was also disclosed that the sergeant major had filed a libel suit against one of the female soldiers who accused him of sexual misconduct. The suit seeks $500,000 in actual damages and $1 million in punitive damages. A1
 
Willey's Letters to Clinton
Kathleen E. Willey maintained a cordial relationship with President Clinton during the four years after she endured what she said was an unwanted sexual encounter with him in the Oval Office. The former White House aide wrote a series of friendly notes to the President and sent him gifts, including a tie, according to correspondence disclosed by the White House. A1
 
Mr. Clinton suggested that he might have nothing more to say about the numerous accusations of personal and legal misconduct. A20
 
Prominent female politicians, including Democrats, said that Ms. Willey's accusations raised troubling issues. A21
 
Fund-Raiser Pleads Guilty
Johnny Chung, a California businessman and Democratic fund-raiser, pleaded guilty to bank fraud, tax evasion and conspiracy in connection with $20,000 in illegal contributions to the Clinton-Gore re-election campaign, and he agreed to cooperate with the authorities. A18
 
Judicial Nominee Withdraws
Frederica Massiah-Jackson, a judge on the Philadelphia Court of Common Pleas who had been accused of being soft on criminals, withdrew from her fight to become the first black woman to sit on the Federal bench in Philadelphia. A18
 
Raucous Day at Freemen Trial
Montana Freemen were carried, dragged and pushed in wheelchairs into Federal court, shouting threats and expletives and knocking over furniture as jury selection began for their trial on charges both leading to and stemming from an 81-day standoff with Federal agents. A12
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-8
 
Forgery Scheme Is Alleged
A Connecticut man was arrested in what the authorities said was a multimillion-dollar scheme to make and sell forged documents in the handwriting of John F. Kennedy. A1
 
Kennedy Children Speak Out
John F. Kennedy Jr. and Caroline Kennedy Schlossberg issued a statement critical of a forthcoming auction of their father's memorabilia, and also criticized his secretary, who first obtained many of the items. B1
 
Cabs Held Drugs, Officials Say
Prosecutors said that a taxi company made money for nearly a decade by delivering bags of cocaine and heroin to the doorsteps of drug users in the Bronx. Three people were arrested. B1
 
No Plans to Raise Tolls
Tolls on the Port Authority's bridges and tunnels will not go up next year, officials said, although they would not rule out increases in PATH train fares and in tariffs paid by bus companies at the Port Authority Bus Terminal in Manhattan. B7
 
HEALTH F7
 
ARTS E1-8
 
SCIENCE TIMES F1-8
 
OBITUARIES B10-11
 
Benjamin Spock
The pediatrician and author of the best-selling "Dr. Spock's Baby and Child Care" was 94. A1
 
BUSINESS DAY D1-22
 
Fighting Junk E-Mail
The author of the most popular Internet E-mail software is to announce a powerful set of tools to fight unsolicited junk electronic mail. D1
 
Icahn Drops Pan Am Offer
The financier Carl Icahn withdrew a $43 million bid to bail out Pan Am. D1
 
Japan Bank Chief Named
Masaru Hayami was named governor of Japan's central bank. Mr. Hayami, 72, is a former executive director of the bank. D4
 
Business Digest D1
 
FASHION B8-9
 
SPORTS C1-8
 
EDITORIAL A24-25
 
Editorials: Presidential character; the McKinney verdict; a peace sprint in Northern Ireland; Dr. Spock's children.
 
Columns: Thomas L. Friedman, A. M. Rosenthal.
 
Chess F2
 
Public Lives B2
 
Crossword E4
 
Weather C7

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (53%); 

COUNTRY: HOLY SEE (94%); IRAQ (94%); INDONESIA (94%); ISRAEL (93%); FRANCE (92%); SPAIN (92%); EUROPE (92%); ARGENTINA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); INDIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); 

CITY: MADRID, SPAIN (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (78%); 

COMPANY: IRAQI NEWS AGENCY (53%); CONGRESS PARTY (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS PARTY (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HOLY SEE (94%); IRAQ (94%); INDONESIA (94%); ISRAEL (93%); FRANCE (92%); SPAIN (92%); EUROPE (92%); ARGENTINA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); INDIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); MADRID, SPAIN (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (78%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES RELIGION (94%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (91%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HOLOCAUST (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); GENOCIDE (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (88%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (87%); WAR CRIMES (86%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (76%); POLICE FORCES (74%); ELECTIONS (72%); LIBERALISM (72%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (72%); FOREIGN LENDING (71%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); INVESTIGATIONS (68%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (67%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (66%); PRISONS (65%); JUDGES (65%); TERRORISM (63%); HOMICIDE (63%); HEALTH CARE LAW (61%); HEALTH INSURANCE (60%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (55%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); SONIA GANDHI (67%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 1998



386 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
Get a Job

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

DATELINE: HENG DAO, China

 BODY:
While monitoring village elections in northeastern China with a U.S. observer team, I wandered through the hamlet of Heng Dao, dropping in on a farmer-turned-mechanic who had geese and pigs in the front yard but a stereo and color television inside his brick hut. Our interpreter asked him what had happened to the loudspeaker that the Communist Party had in his "brigade," as small villages were known in Mao's day. The loudspeakers were used to blare out instructions and propaganda from the party. "We took it down last year," the villager said. "No one wanted to listen to it anymore. We have stereo and TV now."
There are many things you learn observing village elections in China, but the overriding impression is this: Not only is China's move toward a free market irreversible, it is now being driven as much from the villages up as from Beijing down. When people say that in China today the Government's only ideology -- and basis of legitimacy -- is its ability to keep incomes rising, they are so right. Ideologically, the Chinese Communist Party is dead. 
 In the village campaign speeches we heard, the Communist Party was mentioned in only the most perfunctory references. Instead every candidate dwelled on his commitment to be "practical" or "pragmatic" in finding ways to raise village incomes. Sure, the party is still in control, but without any message. None. That's why they've taken down the loudspeaker. There's only one message from the party to the masses now: GET A JOB.
Indeed, what is so striking out here on the Nebraska-like plains of Manchuria is that the same pressures on advanced economies -- to downsize and streamline government, to seek out foreign investors, to plug into global markets and to become more competitive and more diversified -- are squeezing Chinese villages as well. Almost no one is beyond the frontiers of globalization anymore, even Heng Dao village. As China becomes integrated into the global market, the Chinese regime is being forced to reduce subsidies to state industries, reduce social benefits and pressure the whole society to become more competitive. That leads to pressure on the provinces and then the counties, and ultimately it trickles down to Heng Dao, where water buffalo share the roads with motor scooters. Listen to the campaign speeches for village chief here and tell me they don't sound as if they're running for mayor of Toledo, Ohio.
The incumbent, Jiang Ying: "I have tried to be very pragmatic in leading the village on the road to wealth. Our annual income is now 2,300 yuan per year. The budget is much smaller and during my tenure we've gotten many cadres off the village payroll. If elected, we need to introduce more science and technology into agriculture, get more enterprises here and speed up procedures for generating wealth . . . because the whole world is turning into one big market for merchandise."
I asked him where he got such ideas. The village has only one phone. He answered: "I read newspapers. I listen to radio. We have a window-frame factory here. Right now we only sell locally, but we were told that if we improved the quality, we can sell abroad, make more money."
His challenger, Chen Guoshuang, vowed: "I will bring happiness to the village. I will use more technology, which is the key to bringing wealth. First, we must diversify our economy. Families in Brigade 8 planted strawberries in hothouses and made much profit. We are near the paved road. We should be in the shipping business. One of our villagers did that last year and earned 10,000 yuan. Really! We can walk with many legs. We will operate our window-frame factory according to market demands. We must learn all about the market for aluminum and improve our factory. With profitable village enterprises, we can reduce taxes and our children can go to school without us having to pay fees."
So there you have it: Tip O'Neill was wrong. All politics isn't local. All politics is global. Almost everyone now is feeling the same pressures, constraints and opportunities, almost every government, no matter how big or small, is having to put on the same Golden Straitjacket -- which increases economic growth, but shrinks political choices.
Just ask Chen Guoshuang, Jiang Ying and the Mayor of Toledo, Ohio.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST CHINA (93%); OHIO, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (73%); TOLEDO, OH, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: COMMUNIST PARTY (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMUNIST PARTY (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTHEAST CHINA (93%); OHIO, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%); TOLEDO, OH, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTION MONITORING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); MAYORS (78%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (72%); BUDGETS (71%); TRENDS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); GLOBALIZATION (67%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (62%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (62%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 1998



387 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Training of Indonesia Troops Goes On Despite Ban

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 16

 BODY:
The Pentagon has been training Indonesian military forces in specialized arts of warfare since 1992, despite a Congressional ban intended to curb human rights abuses by those soldiers, Defense Department documents show.
The Indonesian forces trained by the Pentagon include a special-forces commando unit called Kopassus, which human rights groups say has tortured and killed civilians. The unit has received training from United States special-operations soldiers in skills like psychological warfare and reconnaissance missions. 
 Pentagon officials said the training program was entirely legal, since it took place under a program different from the one curtailed by Congress. Deputy Secretary of Defense John J. Hamre said in a letter to a member of Congress last month that the training "enhances rather than diminishes our ability to positively influence Indonesia's human rights policies and behavior."
Some members of Congress question that. Representative Christopher H. Smith, a Republican of New Jersey, said the training program "appears to be a dramatic end run around the rules that Congress has carefully prescribed for military training and education of Indonesian forces."
Indonesia is undergoing its greatest political and economic crisis since President Suharto took power in 1965. Last week the newly appointed Minister of Defense, Gen. Wiranto, warned that the Government would crack down hard on demonstrators protesting repression and corruption.
The troops trained by the Pentagon over the past five years include Kopassus, whose Red Berets have been deployed this year against street demonstrators in Jakarta; an army strategic command group called Kostrad that helps control the center of Java and Mr. Suharto's presidential guard. General Wiranto did not specify what troops would be used in such a crackdown.
Mr. Hamre's argument and the documents detailing the training were contained in a letter sent last month to Representative Lane A. Evans of Illinois, a Democrat. The letter and the documents were made public today by the East Timor Action Network, which is a human rights group, and by a reporter and activist, Allan Nairn. Mr. Nairn, who was beaten severely, arrested and permanently banned from Indonesia in November 1991 after witnessing a massacre of more than 270 civilians by Indonesian troops on the island of East Timor, published an article in The Nation today describing the training.
In 1992 Congress banned Indonesia from receiving Pentagon training in the arts of war under the program most commonly used for such courses, known as International Military Education and Training, or Imet.
The Pentagon kept up its training -- but under a different program, known as Joint Combined Exchange and Training, or J-Cet. This was a legal way to avoid the Congressional ban, since the joint program was financed through "a different pot of money" than was Imet, and thus was unaffected by the ban, a Pentagon official said.
Representative Evans conceded that the training was legal, but called it "the Pentagon's loophole to the ban." He said he was "curious to know why U.S. taxpayer dollars are being wasted on aiding and abetting a ruthless military organization."
The training "is certainly not within the spirit" of the law, said Representative Nancy Pelosi, a Democrat of California. "It raises serious questions about a violation of Congressional intent. It is clear that it is a circumvention of Congress."
Grover Joseph Rees, an aide to Representative Smith, said: "We have all these restrictions on Imet and they just get around it by using J-Cet." He added: "They did the same thing in Rwanda -- they give marksmanship training to people who may be participating in massacres."
The J-Cet program provided training in psychological operations and marksmanship to the Rwandan Patriotic Army, which has been accused of the massacre of civilians in eastern Zaire.
The Pentagon was unable to say today how much the J-Cet training program for Indonesia cost, how many troops were trained or which military office ran the program.
A Defense Department official, who would not be quoted by name, said the program was no secret to well-informed members of Congress. She said it was "better to train and engage and interact and gain influence with successive generations of Indonesia officers" than to stop the training. She could cite no evidence that the training improved those officers' respect for human rights.
Congress partly restored financing for training in Indonesia in 1995, under an expanded Imet program, which was intended to limit training to human rights, civilian control and accountability. But under the program, Indonesia was able to buy at least one course in military training directly from the Pentagon, which was another legal way around the legislation, Pentagon officials said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: INDONESIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); TIMOR-LESTE (92%); 

CITY: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDONESIA; INDONESIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); TIMOR-LESTE (92%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (58%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; INDONESIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES HUMAN RIGHTS (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); MILITARY TRAINING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CORRUPTION (78%); ARMIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TORTURE (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); POLITICS (73%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (52%); 

PERSON: WEINER, TIM CHRIS SMITH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 1998



388 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1580 words

HEADLINE: TESTING OF A PRESIDENT: THE VOLUNTEER;
White House Attacks Credibility Of Aide Who Accused Clinton

BYLINE: By JILL ABRAMSON and DON VAN NATTA Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 16

 BODY:
In the four years since she said she endured an unwanted sexual encounter in the Oval Office with President Clinton, Kathleen E. Willey seemed to maintain a cordial relationship with the President, according to correspondence released by the White House today. She wrote him a series of friendly notes and asked him for help getting jobs, the letters show.
The former White House aide, who vividly described an aggressive sexual advance by the President in an interview on Sunday night on the CBS News program "60 Minutes," also enthusiastically praised Mr. Clinton during a visit with a mutual friend one year after the disputed encounter at the White House, the friend said. 
 A fuller portrait of Ms. Willey began to emerge today as the Clinton Administration questioned her credibility, by releasing letters and messages from Ms. Willey in an effort to undercut her claims that the President behaved improperly toward her. The notes contained many warm messages to the President, some signed, "Fondly, Kathleen" and one describing herself as Mr. Clinton's "No. 1 fan."
On Nov. 29, 1993, the same day that Ms. Willey met with the President, her husband committed suicide although she did not learn of his death until the following day. Former business associates of her husband have raised questions about her behavior in the days following her husband's death, saying today that she blamed them in a series of late-night threatening phone calls.
In all, the White House released 15 notes written by Ms. Willey, beginning in May 1993 and ending in November 1996. Nine of the notes were written after the Oval Office encounter.Within a month of their meeting, Ms. Willey wrote Mr. Clinton a note, wishing him a "wonderful Christmas" and thanking him for "the opportunity to work in this great house." She added that she hoped that she would get a "meaningful job" in the White House. Ms. Willey was hired for a secretarial job in the White House counsel's office several months later.
Some notes are effusive. In one hand-written card, dated nearly a year after they met in 1993, Ms. Willey wrote: "Dear Mr. President: You have been on my mind so often this week -- There are so very many people who believe in you and what you are trying to do for our country.
"Take heart in knowing that your number one fan thanks you every day for your help in saving her wonderful state -- With appreciation, Kathleen."
In the interview broadcast on Sunday, Ms. Willey described herself as shocked and angry at Mr. Clinton's attempt to kiss and grope her. She said she was outraged by the President's "recklessness" and that she had considered slapping him across the face. "And then I thought, 'Well, I don't think you can slap the President of the United States like that.' "
At an appearance at a high school in Silver Spring, Md. today, Mr. Clinton, repeated his denial of any inappropriate actions toward Ms. Willey. "Nothing improper happened," the President said. Page A20.
"I am mystified and disappointed by this turn of events," he added.
The White House carefully culled and released Ms. Willey's correspondence and messages to him. But the White House provided only a partial record of the President's communications with Ms. Willey.
The letters are not definitive and do not clear up all the questions arising from Ms. Willey's account of the Oval Office episode, said Joe Lockhart, deputy White House press secretary. In his deposition last January in the Paula Corbin Jones sexual misconduct lawsuit, Mr. Clinton denied under oath Mrs. Willey's accusation that he kissed her and touched her in a sexual manner.
Some of the notes from Ms. Willey include requests for the President to help her find work, a fact her lawyer readily acknowledged. "The letters were nothing more than an attempt to get work because she was unemployed," said the lawyer, Daniel Gecker. "She needed a job." Ms. Willey had no college degree, so her most promising employment connections were at the White House.
The President's lawyer, Robert S. Bennett, said in an interview tonight that Mr. Clinton had not been treated fairly on "60 Minutes."
"It is a show with a viewpoint," Mr. Bennett told Larry King on the Cable News Network, adding that the CBS News program had omitted crucial facts. For one thing, Mr. Bennett said, Ms. Willey's lawyer, Mr. Gecker, had been trying to sell a book on Ms. Willey's behalf until a few days before her Sunday appearance on "60 Minutes."
Mr. Gecker denied tonight that he is seeking a book contract for Ms. Willey. However, he said that four or five months ago, he had approached Michael Viner, the head of New Millenium Press, about a book by Ms. Willey. "I had just read that Paula Barbieri got $3 million, and I thought that was a lot of money," Mr. Gecker said in an interview from his home in Richmond. Ms. Barbieri was once a girlfriend of O.J. Simpson.
But Mr. Gecker said that Mr. Viner told him that such a book was worth "next to nothing," and the discussions ended there. They did not resume until this past Friday when Mr. Gecker said that Mr. Viner called him to inquire again about a book on Ms. Willey, suggesting that her upcoming appearance on "60 Minutes" might ignite new interest.
Mr. Gecker said that he was noncommittal with Mr. Viner, but he said tonight: "We're not looking for a book deal. There is no market for anti-Clinton books."
The correspondence released by the White House today shows that, as Ms. Willey's secretarial job in the counsel's office was ending in 1994, she met again with the President. She then wrote him a note to express her disappointment, and asked to be considered for an ambassadorial post.
"I have invested almost three years with your campaign and Administration and am not very willing to depart yet," Ms. Willey wrote in the Oct. 18, 1994, note. "I would like to be considered for an ambassadorship or a position in an embassy overseas."
Subsequently, Ms. Willey succeeded in winning appointments to two overseas Government conferences in Copenhagen and Jakarta, Indonesia. President Clinton also named her to the board of the United Service Organization.
The friendly tone of Ms. Willey's correspondence with the President is consistent with a description of her given by a friend, Thomas Siebert, who worked with Ms. Willey in Mr. Clinton's 1992 campaign.
Mr. Siebert, an Annapolis, Md., lawyer who served as Ambassador to Sweden, and his wife invited Ms. Willey to Stockholm over the Christmas holidays in 1994. Mr. Siebert said it was a difficult time for her because Ms. Willey was away from her children.
The Sieberts and Ms. Willey spent much of the week talking about the President. Mr. Siebert said Ms. Willey spoke in glowing terms and said she believed he was doing an outstanding job. Mr. Siebert said he was at a loss to explain her description of Mr. Clinton on "60 Minutes" because he thought Ms. Willey had only friendly feelings toward him.
Before she departed to visit the Sieberts, Ms. Willey wrote the President to wish him a happy holiday and to tell him about her trip. "I can hardly contain myself -- I am so excited," she wrote.
In late 1995, Ms. Willey contacted the President again to ask for a fund-raising job for his re-election campaign. In a Dec. 21, 1995, letter, the President responded, "It sounds like you're on the right track."
At the request of the White House, Ms. Willey was interviewed for a paid fund-raising position at the Democratic National Committee in February 1996. She was offered a job but turned it down, said a Democratic Party aide who insisted on anonymity.
New details also emerged today about the aftermath of the suicide of Ms. Willey's husband, Ed Willey Jr. Ms. Willey had gone to the White House on Nov. 29, 1993, in a attempt to get a paying job because her husband was facing mounting legal and financial problems.
The night following her husband's death, Ms. Willey placed several harassing phone calls to some of her late husband's clients, said a former client of her husband. At the same time, she left a more composed message for the President, saying that he could contact her "anytime."
The client, Anthony Lanasa, said Ms. Willey called him in the middle of the night and accused him of driving her husband to kill himself. "She called at three in the morning and said, 'You killed my husband. It's your fault that he's dead,' " said Mr. Lanasa, 59, who owns a produce company in Richmond, where Ms. Willey lives. Ms. Willey made similar calls, late at night, to Mr. Lanasa's lawyer, Mr. Lanasa said.
Both men filed a complaint against Ms. Willey and a warrant was issued for her arrest, said Joseph Kaestner, who represented Mr. Lanasa in litigation over the $275,000 Mr. Willey embezzled from him. Ms. Willey has not repaid the money, according to Mr. Kaestner.
Ms. Willey was charged with allowing a telephone to ring without intent to converse, a misdemeanor in Virginia, said Mr. Gecker, her lawyer. The charge was dismissed six months later, he said.
Last November, Ms. Willey wrote a note to Nancy Hernreich, the President's appointments secretary, to ask to be invited to the White House Christmas party. Three months earlier, Ms. Willey had been subpoenaed to testify in the Paula Jones lawsuit.
"I think of you often," she wrote to Ms. Hernreich, "and hope that you are managing to escape the intrustions that have plagued so many of us who are friends of the President."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kathleen E. Willey wrote to President Clinton on Dec. 15, 1994. (pg. A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: 60 MINUTES (TV PROGRAM)

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (90%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: CBS NEWS DIVISION (57%); WHITE HOUSE (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; TELEVISION; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; SUICIDES AND SUICIDE ATTEMPTS; SEXUAL HARASSMENT; THREATS AND THREATENING MESSAGES US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (75%); CHRISTMAS (63%); SUICIDE (51%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); WILLEY, KATHLEEN; ABRAMSON, JILL; VAN NATTA, DON JR BILL CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 1998



389 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 168 words

HEADLINE: METRO NEWS BRIEFS: NEW YORK;
Connecticut Man Guilty Of Internet Indecency

 BODY:
A 57-year-old unemployed sales consultant was convicted in State Supreme Court in Brooklyn yesterday of sending indecent materials over the Internet to a person he thought was a 13-year-old girl and trying to coax her into having sex.
The man, James Barrows of Madison, Conn., was arrested in December 1996 after showing up for what he thought would be a sexual rendezvous with the girl in Gerritsen Beach, Brooklyn. The meeting resulted from an undercover operation involving a detective posing as a 13-year-old girl on the America Online Internet service. 
 Prosecutors said they believed the case was the first successful conviction under a 1996 state law prohibiting the dissemination of pornographic material to minors on the Internet.
Mr. Barrows was convicted of two counts of attempting to disseminate indecent material to minors and one count of promoting an obscene sexual performance by a child. Sentencing is scheduled for April 27. He faces two and a third to seven years in jail.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (57%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (71%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: AOL INC (57%); STATE SUPREME COURT (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE SUPREME COURT (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (71%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: PORNOGRAPHY AND OBSCENITY; INTERNET AND WORLD WIDE WEB; COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); OBSCENITY (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (88%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (88%); SENTENCING (88%); PORNOGRAPHY (88%); ARRESTS (87%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (72%); 

PERSON: BARROWS, JAMES JAMES BARROWS (80%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 1998



390 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 563 words

HEADLINE: Jury Selection Begins in First Death Penalty Case Since 1983

BYLINE: By JOSEPH P. FRIED 

 BODY:
For the first time in 15 years in New York State, a group of potential jurors was bluntly asked a life-or-death question yesterday: If they convicted a man of murdering three people during a robbery, could they sentence him to die?
The people who were asked the question in a Brooklyn courtroom often answered with words or tones or pauses that showed they were struggling with uncertain or conflicting feelings -- whether they answered that they could impose the death penalty on the defendant, Darrel K. Harris, or could never impose it under any circumstances. 
 The prospective jurors were closely questioned to determine whether they should be selected for the first death penalty trial in the state since capital punishment was reinstated in New York three years ago.
Mr. Harris, 40, a former New York City correction officer, is accused of the triple murder while robbing patrons of a social club in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, in 1996.
The jury selection, which began last week with about 500 prospective jurors filling out questionnaires about themselves and their views on capital punishment, moved to the courtroom yesterday as the judge, prosecution and defense began interviewing the more than 300 who were not excused based on their written answers.
By the end of the day, seven potential jurors had been closely questioned, one at a time, and two had been chosen for the preliminary pool from which the final selections are to be made in about a month.
If yesterday was any indication, the selection process will be a searching one not only for those asking the questions in State Supreme Court, but for the prospective jurors themselves.
"I think capital punishment is necessary but I wish it were not," said a middle-aged woman who works as a customer service representative for a financial company. But asked whether she could ultimately vote for the death penalty, the woman said, "Yes, after everything is taken into consideration."
The woman, who like all the other prospective jurors, was identified only by number, cited such factors as Mr. Harris's background and the circumstances of the crimes.
Under the death penalty law, a jury that finds a defendant guilty of first-degree murder then must decide between execution by injection or life in prison without possibility of parole.
But an unemployed mechanic, a Vietnam veteran who was also middle-aged, said he did not think that he could vote for the death penalty.
The woman was accepted for the pool, the man was not. Under the death penalty law, lawyers may object to prospective jurors whose views are so fixed that they could never vote for this penalty, or those who would always impose it. Prosecutors raised objections about the man, and Acting Justice Anne G. Feldman excused him from serving.
Three of the seven potential jurors questioned yesterday said they could vote for the death penalty if they deemed it warranted, three indicated they never could vote for execution, and the views of one, who was among those excused, was unclear.
The last death penalty trial in the state occurred in 1983 under a provision of the previous capital punishment law.
The defendant, Lemuel Smith, was convicted of first-degree murder and sentenced to death, but the state's highest court struck down the provision the next year and Mr. Smith is serving a life sentence.

 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (50%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (50%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; BEDFORD-STUYVESANT (NYC); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; CAPITAL PUNISHMENT; JURY SYSTEM; ROBBERIES AND THEFTS CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (94%); JURY TRIALS (91%); ROBBERY (90%); MURDER (90%); CAPITAL CRIMES (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); JURY DUTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); SENTENCING (77%); PAROLE (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); LAWYERS (74%); JAIL SENTENCING (72%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (63%); 

PERSON: FRIED, JOSEPH P; HARRIS, DARREL K DARREL K HARRIS (76%); LEMUEL SMITH (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 1998



391 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 18, 1998

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 2; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 1844 words

HEADLINE: Eating Out in Moscow: Theme-Park Cuisine

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, March 17

 BODY:
Unruly and almost lawless, Russia today is often compared to Chicago in the roaring 20's -- a free-market jungle where businessmen settle scores with gun blasts, bureaucrats line their pockets and vast fortunes are amassed overnight. But when it comes to the novel pursuit of fine dining, Moscow is closer to Los Angeles in the 30's.
A little like the early Hollywood land-grabbers whose homes reflected their delusions of grandeur -- Moorish castles, Spanish haciendas, Gothic chateaus, Roman villas -- today's Russian restaurateurs are unfurling their richest fantasies uninhibited by tradition or conventional notions of good taste. In Soviet times, there were few restaurants, and no good ones. Over the last two years, newly rich Russians have confected dozens of restaurants that have less to do with haute cuisine than high concept -- lavish gastronomic theme parks for rich adults. 
 At one of the most popular, Czar skaya Okhota, whose name means "the Czar's hunt," guests are sucked into a culinary Disney World of wolf skins, cannons, bearskin rugs, busts of Russian emperors, mounted reindeer heads, stuffed partridges hanging from wall sconces and even an indoor water mill and a curved wooden bridge.
Hordes of waiters, dressed as serfs in red tunics and red boots, scurry from table to table, silently and deferentially serving dishes like Bonfire-Scented Leg of Game and Herring Under Boyar's Fur Coat. Only the incessant beeping of cellular phones punctuates the feudal atmosphere.
Czarskaya Okhota was created a year ago as a playground for the bankers, businessmen and mobsters who make up the class known as new Russians. They are about the only ones who can afford the ticket: dinner for two is rarely under $250 at restaurants like this one, high even by New York standards. The prices are unthinkable by ordinary Russian standards; the average monthly salary in Moscow is $200.
The restaurant is the brainchild of Arkady Novikov, 35, a former Soviet chef who has transformed himself into the leading new Russian restaurateur. With little foreign travel or background in European dining (he was rejected for a job at a Moscow McDonald's), Mr. Novikov grabs for inspiration like a shopper hellbent on completing a supermarket sweepstakes.
The czarist motif came to him in an antiques store as he leafed through an old leather-bound book about imperial hunting lodges. The inspiration for the restaurant's heavy wood paneling and wooden beams came from a Swiss chalet scene in the Jim Carrey comedy "Dumb and Dumber."
"I never went abroad until 1993," said Mr. Novikov, who studied cooking at the Soviet Institute of the People's Economy. "I get my ideas where I can."
GUIDED by the giddy thrill of sudden, seemingly limitless wealth, rich Russians take an almost childlike delight in fanciful nights out. They are drawn to theme restaurants that combine good, costly food with opulent fantasy and gastronomic special effects.
Partly, it is a cultural tradition. Under Communism there were few restaurants, and almost all were vast, dingy hotel dining rooms with hostile service, drab food, live (very loud) music and frenetic dancing.
"Russians' relationship to restaurants was never functional, and it was never about dining -- you didn't go out to get something to eat," said Stas Namin, 46, a rock musician and big real estate investor, who is a co-owner of Czarskaya Okhota. Namin is his stage name; he was born Anastas Mikoyan, the grandson of the one of Stalin's top aides in the Politburo.
"In Soviet times, there wasn't any good food anywhere," Mr. Namin continued. "People went out for special occasions expecting to be entertained."
And they still do. If in New York the cognoscenti seem on an endless quest for the burnished understatement of a neighborhood Parisian brasserie, Russians like their food served up aux Folies-Bergere.
Serena, a seafood restaurant that Mr. Novikov opened in 1992 as a nautical wonderland, has huge sturgeon and pike swimming beneath glass floors under diners' feet. Waiters in blue and white sailor suits look as if they had just left the imperial yacht. The dinner plates are shaped like clamshells. Even the food has a rich fantasy life: Broken Heart of Scotch Salmon ($37), salmon baked in a flaky puff pastry, is served heart-shaped and pierced by a long, thin wooden dagger, with blood (actually cranberry sauce) oozing from the wound.
Beloye Solntze Pustyni, which Mr. Novikov opened four months ago, offers expensive and delicious Uzbek food in a dizzyingly exotic desert-oasis setting borrowed from a popular Russian movie, "White Sun of the Desert." Guests feast on plov, a spicy Central Asian rice dish ($18) and lamb shashlik ($20), alongside plaster figures of Central Asian bandits being massacred by handsome Red Guards. Russian waitresses are dressed in bejeweled Uzbek native costume, and water trickles from fake waterfalls and rock gardens.
He also created Club T, an Empire-style haute cuisine restaurant that is less 18th-century Paris than 1950's Bel Air; with its gilded putti sconces, crystal chandeliers and pink and gold draperies it could be a boudoir designed for Eva Gabor.
The food, prepared by a 31-year-old French chef, Patrice Tereygeol, is excellent if old-fashioned, with entrees like feuillete of pheasant stuffed with foie gras ($36) and stuffed cabbage with scampi in a butter caviar sauce ($66). A recent lunch for two, with one of the cheapest wines on the menu, a 1993 Medoc ($70), came to just over $300 without dessert.
The clientele, which includes some of Russia's richest and most powerful tycoons, does not blink at dropping nearly $1,600 for a 1978 Petrus. Mr. Tereygeol explained with an apologetic shrug that the cost of flying in French wines and fresh turbot is high. So are customers' expectations.
"I would love to lower the prices and attract more expatriates," he said. "Foreigners cannot afford to eat here. But Russians think that if it costs less, it must be less good."
KONSTANTIN ERNST, a filmmaker and television executive, joined the trend and recently opened Shinok, whose name means roadside cafe in Ukrainian. This restaurant, in busy downtown Moscow, offers gussied-up peasant food, including $12 krovyanka (blood sausage) and an appetizer of salo (salted pig fat) for $3.50 in a contrived setting worthy of Marie Antoinette: live horses, chickens and goats graze amid fake grass and bushes in a glassed-in farmyard. The prices, however, are urban: about $70 a person, wine not included. And there is nothing folksy about the unsmiling armed security guards at the front door who look over visitors as if they were poorly disguised suicide bombers.
The Prague, a famous old restaurant on the Old Arbat that was a favorite haunt of Tolstoy, was reopened in August after a $31 million makeover, the pet project of Telman Ismaelov, a wealthy businessman. It now houses a variety of theme restaurants -- Brazilian, Asian and Italian -- as well as the Czar's Hall, where waiters wear gold-embroidered coats and powdered wigs and patrons pay at least $100 each.
Mostly, it is the new rich who can afford such places, though there is a rising Russian middle class -- salesmen, accountants, advertising executives -- that is increasingly able to afford a night on the town, if a less extravagant one.
A Western-managed Russian chain, Rosinter, has several Moscow restaurants, including the American Bar and Grill, Patio Pizza and a recently opened TGI Friday's. (The bill at TGI Friday's is about $28 a person, nearly twice as high as in the United States.) Henrik Winthur, an American who is the general director of restaurant operations for Rosinter, said he believed that less expensive restaurants aimed at the new middle class were the key to the future. Mr. Winthur expressed some puzzlement about the theme restaurants preferred by the city's wealthiest citizens.
"I'm not sure I am able to explain it," he said, "except that it's like being locked up in a candy store overnight."
When capitalism made its debut in the late 1980's, restaurants, like casinos, shops and outdoor kiosks, were easy prey for gangsters, who either invested in them to launder money or extorted a cut of the profits. Restaurants remain a risky business: the Russian partner in Tren-Mos, one of the first American restaurants in Moscow, was gunned down in 1993. His American partner left the country, and the restaurant has since closed. This winter, a bomb was tossed through the window of a McDonald's restaurant under construction in central St. Petersburg. No one was injured, but the damage was extensive.
Many restaurants are mob-owned, but few flaunt it anymore. The market, moreover, has matured since the early 1990's. Small establishments are still vulnerable to extortion (from gangsters or corrupt municipal officials), but the chains and big operators have established close relationships with leading law enforcement officials. To further hedge their bets, they also pay private security companies (usually staffed by former K.G.B. officers) to rid them of pesky intruders.
Behind carved doors watched by armed security guards and men dressed as boyars, Czarskaya Okhoya opened last year in Zhukovka, a dacha community outside Moscow that once was the exclusive, well-guarded preserve of Politburo members and is now the exclusive, well-guarded preserve of bankers, oil tycoons and real estate developers.
Expatriates refer to the area as the Hamptons, and on Saturday nights, the restaurant's parking lot is jammed with Mercedes 600's, Lexuses, Audis and Jeep Cherokees. Ambassadors, visiting rock stars like Tina Turner and Rod Stewart and foreign dignitaries rub shoulders with muscle-bound men in black turtlenecks and their scantily clad molls. President Boris N. Yeltsin took President Jacques Chirac of France there for dinner last year. Mr. Chirac signed the guest book, a huge leather-bound volume kept in a locked glass case, by scrawling, somewhat dryly, "It is true that there is a market economy in Russia."
MR. NOVIKOV, who got his start as a cook at Viktoriya, one of the first cooperative restaurants, which was opened by Mr. Namin during perestroika in the late 1980's, is building a huge dacha in the neighborhood. The old Mikoyan dacha -- a vast, sprawling estate where Mr. Namin spent his childhood -- is now rented by one of Moscow's most successful real estate developers for $35,000 a month. Mr. Namin has built his own dacha, a modern ski-lodge-style house the size of a cathedral. Like those of most of their customers, the two men's country houses are a few minutes' drive from Czarskaya Okhota.
Mr. Novikov is already dreaming up his next gastronomic adventure, a giant pink restaurant in the shape of an elephant's rear, where waitresses would dress according to the food they served: mutton served by a waitress dressed as a lamb, chicken by one in a hen costume.
He does not intend it as a children's restaurant. "In Russia, adults are children," he said. "This is for them."

GRAPHIC: Photos: POCKETFUL OF RUBLES -- At Czarskaya Okhota in Moscow, dinner for two is rarely less than $250. (James Hill for The New York Times)(pg. F1); SERF CHIC -- At Czarskaya Okhota, a waiter in a red tunic serves sturgeon and salmon. (James Hill for The New York Times)(pg. F8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); 

COMPANY: CZARSKAYA OKHOTA (MOSCOW RESTAURANT) CZARSKAYA OKHOTA NAMIN (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: CZARSKAYA OKHOTA (MOSCOW RESTAURANT) CZARSKAYA OKHOTA NAMIN (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; MOSCOW (RUSSIA); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); 

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (77%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (64%); WAGES & SALARIES (62%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (61%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (50%); ORGANIZED CRIME (50%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); 

PERSON: STANLEY, ALESSANDRA JIM CARREY (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1998



392 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 18, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 39 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:
POUND GAINS. The British pound strengthened to its best level against the dollar this year on heightened expectations that the Bank of England would raise interest rates. In New York, the pound cost $1.6692, up from $1.6686.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the dollar to the British pound, since September 1996. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (58%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (59%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF ENGLAND (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GREAT BRITAIN; UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (59%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY BRITISH POUND (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (86%); INTEREST RATES (83%); ECONOMIC NEWS (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1998



393 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 18, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 403 words

HEADLINE: Industrial Production Is Unchanged; Housing Soars

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 17

 BODY:
Industrial production was unchanged in February even as the nation's housing market boomed, signs that domestic demand was offsetting whatever ill effects the economy was feeling from Asia's crisis.
The Federal Reserve reported today that production at factories, mines and utilities stalled last month after rising one-tenth of 1 percent in January. Manufacturing output also also held steady last month, the first time that has happened since October 1996, suggesting that American exporters might have been reacting to less demand for their goods. 
 In a separate report, the Commerce Department said that housing starts rose 6 percent in February, well above January's increase of two-tenths of 1 percent. February's gain brought the annual rate of new starts to its highest level in more than a decade.
"Manufacturing is probably being slowed by an impact from Asia, but it's not showing up in the overall economy," said John Ryding, senior economist at Bear, Stearns & Company in New York.
As industrial output slowed last month, the amount of factory capacity in use fell to 82.7 percent from 83 percent in January. That was far below the 85 percent level at which economists believe inflationary bottlenecks might develop.
Unusually mild February weather helped limit industrial production and aided housing. Utility output rose only nine-tenths of 1 percent, while home builders worked in regions where winter weather usually halts construction.
Led by big gains in the Northeast, housing starts rose to an annual rate of 1.64 million units in February, the highest since November 1987.
February was the sixth consecutive month in which the annual rate of new starts exceeded 1.5 million, the longest such stretch since the end of 1987. In January, starts rose a revised two-tenths of 1 percent, in contrast to the decline of three-tenths of 1 percent reported initially.
Permits for new housing construction, a gauge of coming demand, rose 6.5 percent, to a 1.63 million annual rate in February.
Housing's strength was also evident in the Fed's production report, which showed that output of construction supplies rose four-tenths of 1 percent last month, while household appliance production rose two-tenths of 1 percent. Those bright spots were offset by declines in the production of other consumer goods and business equipment. Each category fell two-tenths of 1 percent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BSC (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT BEAR STEARNS & CO INC (69%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRODUCTION; HOUSING; HOUSING STARTS MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (94%); REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING STARTS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); PLANT CAPACITY (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); MINING OUTPUT (77%); BUILDING PERMITS (73%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (73%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE MFG (72%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1998



394 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 18, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; National Desk; Education Page

LENGTH: 1887 words

HEADLINE: Be It Wharton or Darla Moore, Not for Nothing Is a B-School So Named

BYLINE: By LESLIE WAYNE 

 BODY:
Darla Moore really does have it all: After growing up on a small South Carolina farm, she goes to Wall Street and becomes a queen of capitalism. She marries a fellow deal maker worth around $1.5 billion and has a career so meteoric that it propels her onto the cover of Fortune magazine, which terms her the "toughest babe" in business.
Now, Ms. Moore, 43, who mixes a soft Southern drawl with cutthroat business instincts, is entering a realm typically reserved for aging captains of industry. She is having a business school named after her. 
 This month, the University of South Carolina business school will become the Darla Moore School of Business after the woman who made a fortune specializing in bankruptcy financing, including that of Macy's.
And like Joseph Wharton (University of Pennsylvania), Amos Tuck (Dartmouth College) and John Kellogg (Northwestern University), Ms. Moore was able get this honor because she was rich enough to write a check big enough -- $25 million -- to warrant the renaming of a school.
In the world of philanthropy, this is called a naming opportunity -- a chance to immortalize one's name, be honored by one's alma mater and donate a significant amount of money to a worthy cause. As a roaring economy has created massive wealth in the last decade and as business schools solicit even more money to compete for students and rankings, naming opportunities are on the rise.
In 1997, $87 million was donated to business schools for renamings, according to the American Assembly of Collegiate Schools of Business, a trade association. This compares with $77 million in 1996, $45 million in 1995 and $29 million in 1994.
There is the Michael F. Price School of Business at the University of Oklahoma, named for the mutual fund wizard who donated $18 million for the honor. Edward W. Kelley, an executive who heads the Steak 'N Shake food chain and who helped develop Tang beverages, Lean Cuisine foods and Grey Poupon mustard and first put pearl onions into frozen peas, just donated $23 million to Indiana University for the Kelley School of Business.
A $35 million donation from Gordon S. Marshall, a computer parts distributor, led to the Gordon S. Marshall School of Management at the University of Southern California. A $10 million donation from the late Roberto C. Goizueta caused Emory University to rename its school in honor of the former chief executive of Coca-Cola.
The same amount, $10 million, from Jenny Craig Weight Loss Centers named the Sid Craig School of Business at California State University, and $10 million from the late Hugh F. Culverhouse, owner of the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, created the Culverhouse College of Commerce at the University of Alabama.
The money comes from the famous as well as the obscure. A $15 million donation led to the naming of the J. Willard and Alice S. Marriott School of Business at Brigham Young University, and Carol Martin Gatton, a Tennessee car dealer, gave $14 million to create a business school in his name at the University of Kentucky.
An Ivy League opportunity awaits. Columbia University made it known that it would consider renaming its business school for $60 million. So far there have been no takers, even after several years of looking.
"One obvious reason we see this is because there is more money around," said David H. Blake, dean of the graduate school of management at the University of California, Irvine. "And there's a bit of a competitive element to it. You are talking about people who have made a career out of being competitive. 'By gosh, if I can do this, I can help my school.' "
Mr. Blake added that his No. 1 priority is to get his school renamed. The asking price is $25 million.
Renaming a business school does more than raise money; it can also raise a school's visibility and give it new connections. For the donor, the payoff is in increased status and recognition. For the school, an association with a famous entrepreneur, a notable industrialist or a Wall Street wizard makes a statement about the school's image and identity.
And that's what brought the University of South Carolina together with Ms. Moore, who created a name for herself, and her first millions, as a Wall Street specialist in bankruptcy financing. Later, after her marriage in 1991 to Richard Rainwater, one of American's nimblest investors, she took over her husband's stock portfolio and tripled his net worth. Along the way, she developed the reputation as a business toughie, leading investor charges that brought down the corporate raider T. Boone Pickens and helped shake up the scandal-ridden hospital company Columbia/HCA Healthcare Corporation.
But what characterized Ms. Moore was her style. She was as comfortable with flirting as with finance.
"I have a soft way of swinging the bat," Ms. Moore said, adding, "A bankruptcy friend once said, 'She'll take your shirt off, but it will feel so good while she does it.' "
For the university, the association with Ms. Moore was a way to raise its visibility. It is the first major business school to be named after a woman, and a daughter of rural South Carolina, as well. She received a bachelor's degree in political science from the school but received her master's in business administration from George Washington University after moving to Washington and working for Senator Strom Thurmond, the South Carolina Republican.
The South Carolina business school, which has an undergraduate and graduate enrollment of 3,000 and a $10 million endowment, is ranked No. 2 in international business by U.S. News & World Report but has yet to break into that magazine's list of the top 50, or crack the rating list of Business Week.
"The school consciously wanted to do something that was different," Ms. Moore said in an interview. "And I had the female thing, the native-daughter-who-went-away-and-made-good thing, and the youth thing. All of these are different than the image of the Deep South, and that appealed to the school in a big way. I think it was very shrewd on their part, frankly."
The wooing took place at the Florence, S.C., country club where two South Carolinians, Hugh McColl, chief executive of Nationsbank Corporation, and W. W. Hootie Johnson, chairman of the bank's executive committee, met last October with Ms. Moore and Mr. Rainwater. Mr. McColl would like to get the school's graduates to work at his bank, just an hour's drive away, while Mr. Johnson, an alumnus, heads the university's current $300 million capital fund-raising drive.
"We had a call from Hugh McColl and he said he had to see us," Ms. Moore said. "He actually called Richard, and would fly anywhere on the face of the earth to see us. We thought it had something to do with our real estate company. We told him we were at my farm in South Carolina, so we met at the country club for lunch. And Hugh brought Hootie along. Hugh didn't have to go far, even though he was willing to go to Timbuktu.
"We were waiting for the punch line and wondering when they were going to bring up the real estate company when finally McColl says, 'We're here to propose naming the business school at U.S.C. after Darla.' "
Their reaction? "Neither of us could say anything for a while," said Ms. Moore, whose donation, which is tax deductible, will be spread over four years. "I was dumbfounded for all the obvious reasons. It's not with my being female, but with being young. It's a risk they are taking. Anyone my age could go out and blow their reputation. I've still got time to blow my reputation in the business community."
As for Mr. Rainwater, a man who wooed his wife by telling her he viewed her as he would an "equity investment," Ms. Moore said, "He was clear in saying, 'You should do it.' "
It was really Hootie Johnson who got the ball rolling. "First, she is a South Carolinian and a highly successful businesswoman," he said, "and she is very wealthy. It just made sense to me when we contemplated naming the school for a person who could make a substantial gift. She is a high-profile person and that would be important to the university from a national standpoint."
The naming of schools after wealthy benefactors goes back to 1638, when John Harvard, a minister from Charlestown, Mass., gave his library to a new school, a bargain by today's standards.
The first business school was started by Joseph Wharton, who endowed the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania with $100,000 in 1881. The business school naming trend got a big lift in the late 1970's when Northwestern University and Duke University each received $10 million and created the Kellogg School of Management and the Fuqua School of Business, respectively.
But it was in this decade that the trend accelerated. "Naming prices are escalating," said Charles Hickman, director of projects at the American Assembly of Collegiate Schools of Business. "I have no reason to think it will stop because the factors driving it are not going away."
Lucky for business schools, their graduates go out and make a lot of money. "We have a large number of graduates who have capacity to make a $60 million donation," said Meyer Feldberg, dean of the Columbia Business School. "We are fortunate in that we have quite a large number of alums whose assets are in excess of $1 billion."
Money, however, does not always lead to a successful outcome. After Karl Eller, a business entrepreneur, gave money to have the business school at the University of Arizona named for him, he went bankrupt. Lucky for both, he has since recovered and is back in business.
Business school deans cringe when they think about the Robert O. Anderson business school at the University of New Mexico. Mr. Anderson, the former chairman of Arco, gave the school about $500,000, and the school, hoping he would give more, named the business school for him. To their dismay, he did not. Still, the business school held a "Robert O. Anderson Appreciation Day" last year, and Howard Smith, the dean, said, "we treasure" the school's relationship with Mr. Anderson.
Then there was Ivan Boesky, who went to prison for insider trading violations and had to withdraw a $1.5 million pledge to Princeton University's religious center.
"The most creative and puzzling example of fund-raising was at a school where there was a plaque to an alumnus outside the men's room," said Mr. Blake of the University of California, Irvine. "I couldn't figure out if the donor had a great sense of humor, the school was just a terrific fund-raiser and raised money for everything or if this was put up for a donor who reneged on his pledge."
Ms. Moore is not the first woman to have a business school with her name on it. There is the Gladys Kelce School of Business at Pittsburg State University in Pittsburg, Kan. Mrs. Kelce, the widow of a wealthy coal company owner, donated $500,000 to the school in the late 1970's. The money was used to move the business school out of a local high school into a new building.
Marshall University in West Virginia named its 2,000-student business school after Elizabeth McDowell Lewis, an alumna who donated more than $2 million. "It wasn't a naming opportunity," said Wade Gilley, the school's president. "She was just such a terrific supporter that we wanted to honor her."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Darla Moore and her husband, Richard Rainwater. The University of South Carolina is naming its business school after Ms. Moore. (David Strick/Outline Press Syndicate)
 
Chart: "DOLLARS AND CENTS: Your Name Here (Just Send Cash)"
Contributions in recent years that have resulted in the naming of business schools for the donors.
 
1998
 
AMOUNT: $25 million
BUSINESS SCHOOL AND INSTITUTION: The Darla Moore School of Business, U. of South Carolina
NAMESAKE AND COMPANY: Darla D. Moore, Rainwater Inc., an investment firm
 
AMOUNT: $18 million
BUSINESS SCHOOL AND INSTITUTION: The Zicklin School of Business, Baruch College
NAMESAKE AND COMPANY: Larry Zicklin, Neuberger & Berman, a money management firm
 
1997
 
AMOUNT: $35 million
BUSINESS SCHOOL AND INSTITUTION: Gordon S. Marshall School of Management, U. of Southern California
NAMESAKE AND COMPANY: Gordon S. Marshall, Marshall Industries, electronic parts
 
AMOUNT: $23 million
BUSINESS SCHOOL AND INSTITUTION: Kelley School of Business, Indiana U.
NAMESAKE AND COMPANY: Edward W. Kelley, Consolidated Products
 
AMOUNT: $18 million
BUSINESS SCHOOL AND INSTITUTION: Michael F. Price College of Business, U. of Oklahoma
NAMESAKE AND COMPANY: Michael F. Price, Franklin Securities
 
1996
 
AMOUNT: $34 million
BUSINESS SCHOOL AND INSTITUTION: Owen Graduate School of Management, Vanderbilt U.
NAMESAKE AND COMPANY: Ralph Owen, Equitable Securities Corporation and American Express
 
1995
 
AMOUNT: $30 million
BUSINESS SCHOOL AND INSTITUTION: Franklin W. Olin Graduate School of Business, Babson College
NAMESAKE AND COMPANY: Franklin W. Olin Foundation
 
1993
 
AMOUNT: $20 million
BUSINESS SCHOOL AND INSTITUTION: Max M. Fisher College of Business, Ohio State U.
NAMESAKE AND COMPANY: Max M. Fisher, real estate entrepreneur
 
1991
 
AMOUNT: $20 million
BUSINESS SCHOOL AND INSTITUTION: Eli Broad College of Business; Broad Graduate School of Management, Michigan State U.
NAMESAKE AND COMPANY: Eli Broad, Broad Inc. and Kaufman & Broad Home Corporation
 
1988
 
AMOUNT: $30 million
BUSINESS SCHOOL AND INSTITUTION: Leonard N. Stern School of Business, N.Y.U.
NAMESAKE AND COMPANY: Leonard N. Stern, the Hartz Group
 
1986
 
AMOUNT: $18 million
BUSINESS SCHOOL AND INSTITUTION: Carlson School of Management, U. of Minnesota
NAMESAKE AND COMPANY: Curtis L. Carlson, Carlson Companies
 
1984
 
AMOUNT: $20 million
BUSINESS SCHOOL AND INSTITUTION: Johnson Graduate School of Management, Cornell U.
NAMESAKE AND COMPANY: Samuel Curtis Johnson, Johnson wax products
 
(Source: American Assembly of Collegiate Schools of Business)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (68%); 

CITY: TAMPA, FL, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN ASSEMBLY OF COLLEGIATE SCHOOLS OF BUSINESS COCA-COLA CO (51%); AMERICAN ASSEMBLY OF COLLEGIATE SCHOOLS OF BUSINESS (84%); UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH CAROLINA (83%); UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH CAROLINA (83%); DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (56%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (56%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (56%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (56%); DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (56%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ASSEMBLY OF COLLEGIATE SCHOOLS OF BUSINESS AMERICAN ASSEMBLY OF COLLEGIATE SCHOOLS OF BUSINESS (84%); UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH CAROLINA (83%); UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH CAROLINA (83%); DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (56%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (56%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (56%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (56%); DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (56%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (68%); TAMPA, FL, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; PHILANTHROPY BUSINESS EDUCATION (94%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (91%); MAJOR GIFTS (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (75%); PHILANTHROPY (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); EXECUTIVES (67%); MUTUAL FUNDS (62%); WEIGHT REDUCING CENTERS (61%); DIETING (61%); 

PERSON: WAYNE, LESLIE ELI BROAD (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1998



395 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 18, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 266 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
Rally Fades on Mixed Economic Signs

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
An early bond market rally quickly faded yesterday and prices finished lower, hurt by mixed signals on the economy's strength.
The 30-year Treasury bond fell 7/16 in price, to 103 9/32, while the yield, which moves in the opposite direction, rose to 5.89 percent, from 5.86 percent Monday. The market got an initial boost from a report by the Federal Reserve that showed industrial production remained unchanged last month, well short of the two-tenths of a percent gain expected, and that factory use fell to 82.7 percent of capacity in February compared with 83 percent in January. Still, investors were reluctant to pay more for Treasury securities without stronger proof that the economy is slowing. 
 The market may also have been weakened by a report from the Commerce Department that showed housing starts surged 6 percent last month to an annual rate of 1.6 million units, higher than 1.5 million units expected. Although the strength partly reflected the unseasonably warm winter, it was also a reminder that growth in housing could lead to higher consumer spending and greater inflationary pressure.
There was speculation that the bond market might receive more friendly data tomorrow when the Labor Department releases its February Consumer Price Index.
Some forecasters are calling for only a marginal gain in the index, which could help diminish fears of higher inflation. But Anthony Chan, managing director and chief economist at Banc One Investment Advisors Corporation in Columbus, Ohio, said the market was also focused on the weekly unemployment data. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (56%); JPM (LSE) (56%); 8634 (TSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES BONDS (95%); BOND MARKETS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INFLATION (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (77%); STATISTICS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (72%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (69%); HOUSING STARTS (68%); INTEREST RATES (68%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (66%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1998



396 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 18, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: COMMODITIES;
Crude Oil Falls Further; Some Gasoline Near $1 a Gallon

BYLINE: By AGIS SALPUKAS 

 BODY:
Crude oil sold below $13 for the first time in nine years yesterday, and gasoline declined to the lowest level since 1995, flirting with an average price of $1 a gallon.
With the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries in disarray, analysts predicted that the good times for consumers and energy-intensive industries like trucking and airlines could continue for months. 
 Most experts said that any reversal of the slide in oil prices depended on agreement by the OPEC nations to cut production at a special meeting the end of this month. But with the two largest producers, Saudi Arabia and Venezuela, locked in a dispute over which should absorb the bulk of financial sacrifice, that prospect seemed increasingly remote.
The lack of OPEC cohesiveness continued to depress prices. At one point yesterday, crude oil was down 32 cents a barrel, after a much steeper fall Monday, at $12.96. It recovered some later in the day to settle on the New York Mercantile Exchange at $13.21 a barrel, off 7 cents.
The decline helped propel a rise in stock and bond prices on Monday. Yesterday stocks were mixed over all, with losses by oil and energy-services companies. Shares of trucking companies and airlines rose.
The Energy Information Administration said yesterday that the national average price of regular unleaded gasoline fell over the last week to $1.008 a gallon, compared with $1.22 in November and $1.20 a year ago. In some metropolitan areas, such as Atlanta, regular unleaded gasoline was selling as low as 75 cents.
Truckers also got good news, with the agency reporting that the average price of diesel fuel fell to $1.057 a gallon from $1.22 a year earlier.
However, analysts cautioned that with demand for gasoline strong in the first two months of 1998, and the vacation season ahead, retail prices are expected to edge up a little over the next few months. The increases are expected to be small. "You're probably talking 5 cents a gallon at most by the summer," said Lynn Westfall, director of development at Ultramar Diamond Shamrock, one of the largest independent refiners.
To be sure, the OPEC nations may surprise the market with an agreement to reduce their total output. If that happens, and if demand for gasoline remains high and refineries keep running at full capacity, prices could shoot up. But for now, the trends are in favor of consumers.
"I'm ecstatic," said Miangelo Moore as he filled his turquoise Chevrolet Blazer at an Exxon station on Route 4 in New Jersey, one of a cluster of stations selling regular gasoline for 99.9 cents or less. Mr. Moore said he was taking advantage of the bargain prices to treat himself to a premium grade selling for $1.129 a gallon.
Even as OPEC members argue among themselves, two world developments -- the softening to a degree of sanctions against Iraq and the Asian financial crisis -- are also putting downward pressure on crude oil prices.
Ann Louise Hittle, director for world oil at Cambridge Energy Research Associates in Cambridge, Mass., estimated that 800,000 to 900,000 barrels more a day could come on the market from Iraq by June. And projections of demand in Southeast Asia may have to be revised downward, she added, as the economies of that region worsen.
Ken Haley, who is in charge of forecasting the price of crude oil at the Chevron Corporation, said, "A response by OPEC is the only thing that will change the balance." The OPEC nations set a quota at 27.5 million barrels a day last November, but violations by members like Venezuela has pushed output closer to 28.8 million barrels, analysts say.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks crude oil prices (near-month contract), since September 1996. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also lists the 52-week highs and lows of selected commodities, along with their closes yesterday and their changes, yesterday, year to date, and over the past 52 weeks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); 

COUNTRY: SAUDI ARABIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); UNITED STATES (75%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (75%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (93%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (55%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (93%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (55%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAUDI ARABIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); UNITED STATES (75%); NEW JERSEY, USA (75%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); GASOLINE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); FUTURES (79%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); TRUCK DRIVERS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); TRENDS (77%); AIRLINES (76%); TRUCKING (76%); DIESEL FUEL (74%); DIESEL FUEL PRICES (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); BOND MARKETS (72%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (72%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (70%); BONDS (69%); PLANT CAPACITY (65%); 

PERSON: SALPUKAS, AGIS MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1998



397 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 18, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1901 words

HEADLINE: Business Travel: Open Skies, Closed Markets?;
Growing Debate Over Keeping Airlines Competitive

BYLINE: By LAURENCE ZUCKERMAN 

 BODY:
When the bankrupt Western Pacific Airlines stopped flying last month, Frontier Airlines, one of its rivals at Denver's sprawling new airport, offered to honor its outstanding tickets, splitting the revenue 50-50. But just when Frontier thought it had sealed the deal, United Airlines, which controls more than 70 percent of the seats flown in and out of Denver, swooped in and reached its own agreement.
"United offered us a better deal," said Robert A. Peiser, Western Pacific's president and chief executive. 
 Sam Addoms, the chief executive of Frontier, acknowledged that United flies to all the cities served by Western Pacific, while Frontier had some gaps. But the effect of the deal was that United, a unit of the UAL Corporation, had denied Frontier a shot at winning the loyalty of Western Pacific's customers.
"Those moves might be construed as a means to increase their monopoly status," he said.
It is hardly an academic issue.
Twenty years after Washington deregulated the airline industry, there is a growing debate over whether the major carriers are unfairly reining in their smaller rivals, curbing their growth and even blocking their access to new markets. More is at stake than simply the number of carriers flying out of a particular airport -- ticket prices tend to drop when competition increases, and rise when it narrows, studies have shown.
The Justice Department has started an antitrust investigation of the biggest airlines and the Transportation Department is on the verge of issuing guidelines that would define for the first time when the Government might take action against a carrier for competing unfairly. In addition, several bills have been introduced in Congress that aim to blunt the dominance of the big carriers and promote competition.
As a result, the lines are quickly being drawn for a bitter battle that pits the airlines against a loose contingent of travel agents, consumer activists, business groups, local communities and the Clinton Administration. Both sides say they are the true champions of deregulation, which everyone agrees brought affordable air travel to millions of first-time passengers.
The big airlines say that their critics are trying to turn back the clock and "reregulate" the industry. AMR's American Airlines and United recently formed the Airline Competition Committee to celebrate the 20th anniversary of deregulation and "educate" the public about its benefits. Along with Northwest Airlines and Delta Air Lines, American and United gave $1.1 million last year in Federal campaign contributions, accounting for 72 percent of all airline industry donations, according to a study by the Center for Responsive Politics.
Critics of the big airlines respond that they are merely trying to remove the last vestiges of regulation, which they say have been exploited by the major carriers to fend off new competitors. But they are clearly eager for the Government to take a stronger hand in helping new low-cost airlines.
"Our goal is to expand deregulation to meet the original intent of the Congress," said Ivan Michael Schaeffer, president of Woodside Travel Trust, a consortium of 132 travel agencies that cater mostly to businesses. "No one in 1978 believed that deregulation would lead to more concentration of the industry."
What corporate travel agents, businesses and many communities are most concerned about are the so-called fortress hubs at key airports around the country that are dominated by the large carriers. In addition to United's pre-eminence in Denver, it and American control 84 percent of the available seats in Chicago. Northwest Airlines has 79 percent of the capacity in Detroit and an even greater 82 percent in Minneapolis. Delta flies 80 percent of the seats out of Atlanta.
As the carriers have tightened their grip on major airports, the prices for walk-on fares, which are mostly purchased by business travelers, have soared to record levels. Many members of Congress, along with local officials, complain that the lack of competition is hampering economic development because businesses cannot afford to be situated where travel costs are too high.
One Federal study of the impact of deregulation found that fares at hub airports dominated by a single carrier were 22 percent higher than what was charged in other markets. To Washington policy makers, the solution has been the introduction of more low-cost airlines modeled on the success of Southwest Airlines.
For a time, the approach seemed to work. A 1996 study concluded that passengers traveling in markets with low-cost competition saved $6.3 billion a year, $2.6 billion of which came from large hub airports.
But a month after that study was issued, a Valujet plane crashed in Florida, killing all 110 people aboard. The subsequent discovery of numerous safety violations by the carrier turned many passengers away from low-cost airlines. Applications to start new discount carriers slowed to a trickle.
Before the crash, Valujet had proved popular with many travelers. At its peak in 1995, it flew 7 percent of the available seats out of its base in Atlanta and was growing fast. Critics of the big carriers believe that the Valujet disaster was seen as an opportunity by the major airlines to knock off other small competitors before they became a threat -- a charge that the big carriers deny.
Whatever their motivation, large airlines have a number of competitive tools at their disposal that have the effect of isolating small rivals. These range from exclusive deals with large corporate customers to discounts for travel agencies that book a high percentage of their tickets on one airline. But the most potent way of driving out competition is so-called predatory behavior: cutting fares and then flooding a small airline's routes with cheap seats until it is forced to abandon them.
That is exactly what the Detroit-based Spirit Airlines contends Northwest did on the Detroit-Philadelphia route in the aftermath of the Valujet crash. Northwest matched Spirit's $49 one-way fare and added more seats to its existing service.
After Spirit stopped flying the route in September 1996, Northwest reduced capacity and raised its prices. "Their strategy only made sense if their goal was to push us out of the market," said Mark Kahan, Spirit's executive vice president.
Northwest denied that it was doing anything more than competing aggressively. "Spirit Air is complaining because we matched their prices," said Jon Austin, a spokesman. "That is the central tenet of a free market."
The carrier is also accused of using similar tactics against Reno Air, which filed an antitrust suit against Northwest last March.
In addition, Frontier has a litany of complaints of unfair practices by United. While United vigorously denies the charges, Frontier's complaints were apparently substantive enough to get the Justice Department to begin its antitrust investigation early last year. The Department of Transportation also began investigating United and other big carriers, with officials finding evidence of some foul play.
"I've seen dozens of examples in routinely reported data where fare matching and undercutting by major airlines have been taking place," said Patrick V. Murphy, Deputy Assistant Secretary of Transportation, in a speech last fall.
But predatory behavior is one of the thorniest areas of antitrust law. Judges are extremely reluctant to rule in favor of those who say they are victims because it raises the specter of denying consumers the benefit of what at first appear to be wider choices and low prices.
"Virtually every student of antitrust law will tell you that predatory pricing, like purple suede shoes, doesn't exist," said Robert L. Crandall, American's combative chairman and chief executive.
But in a speech last year, Roger W. Fones, who is leading the Justice Department's antitrust investigation of the airlines, said that the airline business was one of the few industries where predatory behavior could be demonstrated to be a rational strategy.
Still, the cloudy legal questions mean that the large carriers would likely fight any lawsuit brought by the Government, a battle that could last for years. "Drafting a court order that gets surgically at these problems is difficult because it says 'don't charge such low prices,' " said one Justice Department lawyer who insisted on anonymity.
The Department of Transportation says it has more far-reaching powers to rein in the big airlines than the Justice Department. It can levy fines and even revoke an airline's operating license. But the department has never used these powers against a major airline for competing unfairly, choosing instead to pressure carriers behind the scenes.
The new guidelines have been widely anticipated. Officials said last year that they would issue them in January. Then they were pushed back to February. The department had been planning to release them last week but held off again.
Airline executives have been appealing to the White House in an effort to weaken the guidelines, leading some to credit them with the delay. But a White House official who requested anonymity said that the only problem was that the Transportation Department's 15-page draft needed to be in plainer English.
Administration officials may be nervous that the rules will appear to prevent the airlines from lowering their fares, drawing the wrath of a public whipped up by the carriers.
"What kind of competition policy precludes large carriers, or anybody, from selling large numbers of seats at low prices?" said Cyril D. Murphy, vice president of regulatory affairs at United.
In a speech on Jan. 30, Rodney E. Slater, the Transportation Secretary, said that the Administration deliberately chose not to pursue an "enforcement strategy" against the major carriers. "Some in industry said, 'Give us guidance,' " he added. "And that is what we will do."
Whether this means the agency will use its enforcement powers if airlines violate the new guidelines is not clear. Critics of the airlines hold out little hope that the Administration will take tough action. Instead, they place more faith in Congress. The bills that have been introduced would open up more landing rights at the country's busiest airports for upstart carriers and force the Department of Transportation to respond to complaints of predatory behavior within 90 days.
But a large number of lawmakers are opposed to new legislation. At a hearing early this month, Senator Slade Gorton, Republican of Washington, the chairman of the aviation subcommittee of the Commerce Committee, argued that "telling airlines how to schedule flights and what fares to charge is a cure far worse than the disease."
Even Ed Faberman, executive director of the Air Carrier Association, the chief lobby for the upstart airlines, acknowledged that many small carriers failed because they were underfinanced, poorly managed, or both. "No one is pretending that the only reason start-ups are failing is because of the big carriers," he said.
Still, said Mr. Addoms, Frontier's chief executive, deregulation should not mean that "anything goes."
"We are going to have a debate about this stuff for the first time in 20 years," he added. "Everyone is going to get their oar in, and I am sure it is going to be loud."

GRAPHIC: Photo. (Photograph by George Hall; Illustration by Carl Sharif/The New York Times)
 
Graphs: "Air Traffic Control"
The country's largest airlines dominate the traffic going into and out of some of the nation's biggest airports. Critics say these fortress hubs have given the major carriers a big weapon in their effort to fend off new competitors.
 
MAJOR AIRLINES and some markets they control

		Share of			scheduled		Airports	seats (1997)	American	Chicago O'Hare	36.5%		Dallas Fort Worth	70.3%		Miami Int'l	50.7%	 	 	 	Delta	Atlanta Hartsfield	79.7%		Cincinnati-N. Kentucky	91.5%		Salt Lake City	75.5	 	 	 	United	Chicago O'Hare	47.1%		Denver Int'l	70.7%		San Francisco Int'l	54.0%	
 
Graph also tracks the number of new passenger airlines 1) granted a license, and 2) still operating from 1989 through 1997.
 
(Sources: Lehman Brothers; Transportation Department)(pg. D1)
 
"This Airport Isn't Big Enough . . ." shows major airports in the continental United States where one carrier had 50 percent or more of the scheduled passenger traffic in 1997. (Source: Lehman Brothers)(pg. D4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS TRAVEL (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (91%); DAL (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (79%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC; DELTA AIR LINES INC; UNITED AIRLINES; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (US) UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (91%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (72%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC; DELTA AIR LINES INC; UNITED AIRLINES; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (US) US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (72%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (79%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; INDUSTRY PROFILES ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (92%); AIRLINES (91%); AIRPORTS (91%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (90%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (86%); AIR SERVICE (78%); AIR FARES (78%); TICKET SALES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); LEGISLATION (72%); TRAVEL AGENTS (72%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (69%); ANNIVERSARIES (67%); INVESTIGATIONS (64%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (63%); 

PERSON: ZUCKERMAN, LAURENCE HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1998



398 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 18, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
British Company Is Acquiring Inland Steel

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: LONDON, March 17

 BODY:
Ispat International N.V. said today that it plans to buy the Inland Steel Company of Chicago for $888.2 million plus $538.6 million in assumed debt to expand in the United States, where construction and manufacturing growth has fueled steel demand.
The acquisition by the London-based steelmaker is the latest sign of consolidation in the global steel industry, as slower economic growth in Asia reduces demand and pressures steelmakers to cut costs to improve profits. The move would give Ispat's mills in Canada, Mexico and Trinidad greater access to the United States. 
 For Inland, the sale could satisfy shareholders who have been complaining of little return on their investment.
"Ispat is very aggressive, and as they continue their strategy here in the U.S., the pace of consolidation is going to accelerate," said Waldo Best, an analyst at Morgan Stanley, Dean Witter, Discover & Company. "There's a lot of value in the industry right now at current price levels in the U.S."
The takeover would double Ispat's revenue to $4.6 billion and increase annual steel production 74 percent, to 12.5 million tons, making it the world's eighth-largest steel producer. It is currently ranked 16th.
Ispat would pay $650 million in cash for the common stock of the subsidiary of Inland Steel Industries. It would also pay $238.2 million for the preferred shares.
"In order to be a truly global steel company, we needed a stronger presence in the U.S.," Lashmi Mittal, the Indian entrepreneur who founded Ispat in 1989, said in an interview. "It's the most demanding market."
In Amsterdam, where Ispat is registered, the company's shares rose 2 guilders, or about $1, to 53 guilders. Inland rose $4.3125, to $27.6875.
Other American steel company shares rose as well on the possibility of further takeovers in the United States. The AK Steel Holding Corporation rose $1.3125, to $20. The Bethlehem Steel Corporation jumped 87.5 cents, to $13.1875. The National Steel Corporation rose $1.875, to $18.6875.
For months, major shareholders in Inland had been urging the board to sell the steel division and spin off its 87 percent stake in the metals distributor Ryerson Tull Inc. -- which would be Inland's only remaining unit after the sale to Ispat is completed -- to increase shareholder returns.
Inland Steel Industries, with market capitalization of $1.14 billion, is the world's 34th-largest steelmaker.
In recent years, it forged sales alliances with Tata Iron and Steel of India, Macsteel of South Africa and Canada's Federal Industries to bolster steel exports from its United States plants.
"It became clear that steel companies with an international production capability and global market reach will have a major edge over other producers," Robert Darnall, chairman, president and chief executive of Inland, said in a statement. Mr. Darnall will become head of Ispat's North American operations.
Mr. Darnall said the company would distribute a "significant portion" of the net proceeds to Inland Steel Industries shareholders through stock repurchases, dividends, or a combination. The transaction is expected to be completed in the third quarter.
Mr. Mittal has built Ispat through acquisitions, most recently bidding for a steel plant in Venezuela thought to be worth more than $1 billion.
In the 1980's, Mr. Mittal left family-owned steel mills in India to patch together Ispat, which in the last six years has acquired steel mills in Germany, Trinidad, Mexico, Ireland and Canada, and worked to turn them around by cutting costs and jobs.
Mr. Mittal said Ispat would try to cut $120 million in annual costs at Inland, but it was unclear whether that means jobs would be cut. Inland makes about 5.5 million tons a year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (69%); AKS (NYSE) (64%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS212210 IRON ORE MINING (96%); SIC1011 IRON ORES (96%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (96%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS423510 METAL SERVICE CENTERS & OTHER METAL MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (85%); NAICS332322 SHEET METAL WORK MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (69%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); NAICS331221 ROLLED STEEL SHAPE MANUFACTURING (64%); SIC3316 COLD-ROLLED STEEL SHEET, STRIP & BARS (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (92%); ASIA (92%); MEXICO (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NETHERLANDS (53%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); 

COMPANY: ISPAT INTERNATIONAL LTD ARCELORMITTAL STEEL USA INC (96%); RYERSON HOLDING CORP (85%); MORGAN STANLEY (69%); AK STEEL HOLDING CORP (64%); BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP (63%); NATIONAL STEEL CORP (63%); TATA IRON & STEEL CO LTD (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: ISPAT INTERNATIONAL LTD

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (92%); ASIA (92%); MEXICO (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NETHERLANDS (53%); LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); 

SUBJECT: STEEL AND IRON; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; INDUSTRY PROFILES IRON & STEEL MILLS (95%); TAKEOVERS (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); IRON & STEEL MARKETS (78%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (78%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); COMMON STOCK (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (77%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); METALS & MINERALS WHOLESALERS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); PREFERRED STOCK (70%); INTERVIEWS (69%); 

PERSON: ROBERT J DARNALL (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1998



399 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 18, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 674 words

HEADLINE: 2 State Mental Hospitals Are Providing Medical Staff Who Speak Chinese and Korean

BYLINE: By ESTHER B. FEIN 

 BODY:
Faced with the threat of a lawsuit, the State Office of Mental Health has agreed to set up a special system for treating patients with mental illness who speak only Chinese or Korean.
Under the system, the patients will be clustered together on units at two state hospitals in New York City, which will be staffed by nurses, doctors, social workers and psychiatrists fluent in Mandarin, Cantonese or Korean. 
 Advocates for immigrants and people with mental illnesses said that the move was an important and necessary step in assuring that patients received appropriate care and understood the treatments and therapies prescribed for them -- a virtually unattainable goal when patients and the medical staff do not speak the same language.
These advocates say it is difficult enough for patients to get routine or even emergency medical care when language barriers separate them from the doctors treating them -- a growing problem in the New York region. In those cases, diagnostic tests and physical examinations can at least provide some information.
But when the underlying condition involves mental health, experts said, the inability to communicate in the same language makes diagnosis and treatment a guessing game.
Dennis Feld, a lawyer with Mental Hygiene Legal Services, a state-financed organization that represents psychiatric patients, said that when his group and others threatened to sue the state if it did not provide better linguistic services for these patients, state officials quickly agreed to address the problem.
The first of the two clusters, as they are being called, opened earlier this month at South Beach Psychiatric Facility, a state hospital on Staten Island, with staff members fluent in Mandarin and Cantonese and beds for eight patients. The second eight-bed cluster is scheduled to open in April at Creedmoor Psychiatric Center in Queens and is to have staff members fluent in Mandarin and Cantonese, as well as in Korean.
"How can people isolated linguistically respond to their peers or to clinicians?" Mr. Feld said. "How can clinicians evaluate people when they have no idea what they are saying?"
In 1995, Mr. Feld's group sued the state to force the opening of psychiatric units for patients who speak only Spanish. The success of that initiative, Mr. Feld said, helped ease the way for this recent victory.
Linda Rosenberg, deputy commissioner for operations for the state's Office of Mental Health, said that having the medical staff and patients speak the same language improves the results of treatment and decreases the length of time that patients need to be hospitalized. Appropriately evaluated and treated, she said, many patients could be followed more effectively and economically in an outpatient setting.
The state first began evaluating the problems facing Korean and Chinese psychiatric patients about a year ago, Ms. Rosenberg said. Working with psychiatrists fluent in those languages, officials found 19 patients who had been treated in state facilities by people who did not speak their language: 16 were in the hospitals, 2 were outpatients and 1 had been discharged and was not being helped.
John Gresham, a lawyer with New York Lawyers for the Public Interest, an advocacy group that worked on the case, said that one patient had been living in a state institution for more than three years without being properly diagnosed.
"We think as this program moves forward, that patients will be discharged who should probably have been discharged years or months ago if someone had understood them," Mr. Gresham said.
Kin Wah Lee, vice president for the New York Coalition for Asian-American Mental Health, an organization of mental health workers, said that although she was pleased with the state's new initiative, she hoped more efforts would be focused on providing appropriate language services in hospital emergency rooms, where many mental health patients are first seen.
"This is a great beginning," Ms. Lee said. "But we need better crisis management, too."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: SOUTH BEACH PSYCHIATRIC FACILITY (NYS); CREEDMOOR PSYCHIATRIC CENTER (NYC) STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOUTH BEACH PSYCHIATRIC FACILITY (NYS); CREEDMOOR PSYCHIATRIC CENTER (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: MENTAL HEALTH AND DISORDERS; LANGUAGE AND LANGUAGES; KOREAN LANGUAGE; CHINESE LANGUAGE PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (91%); MENTAL ILLNESS (91%); HOSPITALS (90%); MENTAL HEALTH (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (90%); PSYCHIATRY (89%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (78%); LITIGATION (78%); NURSES & NURSING (78%); LINGUISTICS (69%); 

PERSON: FEIN, ESTHER B DENNIS FELD (79%); KIN WAH LEE (56%); JOHN GRESHAM (56%); LINDA ROSENBERG (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1998



400 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 18, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 397 words

HEADLINE: New Dose of Anxiety At Ever-Changing Bank

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK 

 BODY:
From outward appearances, it was a normal day at the Park Avenue headquarters of Chase Manhattan, except perhaps for the spectacle next door on 48th Street, where St. Patrick's Day marchers gave an oddly festive air to one of New York City's most bankerly addresses.
But inside, after Chase announced big job cuts, it was grim. "Of course people are nervous," said an executive in Chase's foreign currency data processing department who identified himself only as Abraham. "We won't know from one day to the next who will stay, and who will go." 
 Chase said the cuts would be especially deep in New York City, where it is the largest private employer, and in the suburbs.
Beginning in the next three months, the company said, 1,125 workers in the New York region -- out of a total of 36,594 -- will be told that they are being let go. Chase would not specify where the cuts would be made, but they could come at the Park Avenue headquarters; at the lower Manhattan office tower, known as One Chase Plaza; at a technology complex built during the 1980's in downtown Brooklyn and at its national credit card processing center in Hicksville, on Long Island.
Chase's cutbacks come at a time of buoyant expansion in most of the region's economy. The culprits, analysts say, are mergers, consolidation and a steady migration of some operations like data processing to lower-cost regions.
Chase itself provides a corporate genealogy of such shifts in the region's banking. The largest recent merger was Chase's combination with Chemical Banking in 1996, leading to thousands of job cuts and the elimination of 100 retail bank branches.
That came close on the heels of Chemical's 1993 acquisition of Manufacturers Hanover.
No more branch closings are planned, Chase officials said.
For the bank's employees, the long-running turmoil has made some of them stoic. "I'm a survivor," said an executive in the information technology division, whose career path has tracked recent banking history. Hired first by Manufacturers Hanover in 1990, he was retained after Chemical took it over. Then, amid the steep cuts after Chase's 1996 acquisition of Chemical, he was spared once again.
"This is all just part of what goes on every day in this industry," he said. "But listen, the economy is generally strong, and even if I don't survive these layoffs, I'll find something else."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: OZRK (NASDAQ) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (85%); SIC6733 TRUSTS, EXCEPT EDUCATIONAL, RELIGIOUS, & CHARITABLE (85%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CHASE MANHATTAN CORP BANK OF THE OZARKS INC (85%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (55%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHASE MANHATTAN CORP LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (55%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; LABOR LAYOFFS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (87%); CLOSINGS (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (76%); DISMISSALS (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (71%); MERCHANT BANKING (70%); BANK BRANCHES (69%); ACQUISITIONS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); GENEALOGY (64%); RETAIL BANKING (64%); CREDIT CARDS (51%); 

PERSON: LUECK, THOMAS J

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1998

 
