

601 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1057 words

HEADLINE: Immigration Law Changes Seen Cutting Billions From Deficit

BYLINE: By ASHLEY PARKER; Erin Banco contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Congressional budget analysts, providing a positive economic assessment of proposed immigration law changes, said Tuesday that legislation to overhaul the nation's immigration system would cut close to $1 trillion from the federal deficit over the next two decades and lead to more than 10 million new legal residents in the country.
A long-awaited analysis by the Congressional Budget Office found that the benefits of an increase in legal residents from immigration legislation currently being debated in the Senate -- which includes a pathway to citizenship -- would outweigh the costs. While the report was a clear victory for immigration proponents, it came just hours after Speaker John A. Boehner raised potential new obstacles for the bill, saying he would not bring any immigration measure to the floor unless it had the support of a majority of House Republicans. 
The report estimates that in the first decade after the immigration bill is carried out, the net effect of adding millions of additional taxpayers would decrease the federal budget deficit by $197 billion. Over the next decade, the report found, the deficit reduction would be even greater -- an estimated $700 billion, from 2024 to 2033. The deficit reduction figures for the first decade do not take into account $22 billion in the discretionary spending required to implement the bill, however, making the savings slightly lower.
The report was immediately seized on by backers of the bill as a significant boost to its prospects. Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, one of the bill's authors, said the report ''debunks the idea that immigration reform is anything other than a boon to our economy.''
The budget office also found that in the next decade the legislation would lead to a net increase of about 10.4 million permanent legal residents and 1.6 million temporary workers and their dependents, as well as a decrease of about 1.6 million unauthorized residents.
Conservatives had expected that an analysis of the second decade -- when immigrants would begin to qualify for federal benefits -- would bolster their argument that the costs of an immigration overhaul were unwieldy, but that turned out not to be the case in the economic analysis.
Senator Jeff Sessions, Republican of Alabama, a leading opponent of the bill, said that its authors used ''scoring gimmicks'' in order to conceal the ''true cost from taxpayers.'' ''As a result, the score effectively conceals some of the biggest long-term costs to taxpayers contained in this legislation, including providing illegal immigrants with Medicaid, food stamps and cash welfare,'' Mr. Sessions said.
Earlier Tuesday, Mr. Boehner, Republican of Ohio, tried to put to rest discussion that he would consider pushing through an immigration bill with a combination of Democrats and a minority of receptive Republicans in the House, where conservative Republican sentiment runs strongly against allowing those who entered the country illegally to qualify for legal status.
''I also suggested to our members today that any immigration reform bill that is going to go into law ought to have a majority of both parties' support if we're really serious about making that happen, and so I don't see any way of bringing an immigration bill to the floor that doesn't have a majority support of Republicans,'' Mr. Boehner said at a news conference after meeting with House Republicans.
Mr. Boehner's comments, both privately in the meeting at the Capitol Hill Club and publicly, came as some House Republicans have begun to draw a firm and vocal line in the sand, warning Mr. Boehner that his speakership could be at risk if he tries to force through an immigration bill without his conference's support.
In an interview with World Net Daily radio on Monday, Representative Dana Rohrabacher, Republican of California, said Mr. Boehner ''should be removed as speaker'' if, on immigration, he violates the ''Hastert rule'' -- an unofficial principle named for J. Dennis Hastert, a former Republican speaker who would rarely allow a vote on a bill that did not have the support of a majority of his conference.
Though Mr. Boehner has passed measures with a minority of Republicans several times this year -- to help avert a fiscal showdown, provide relief for victims of Hurricane Sandy and pass the Violence Against Women Act -- he explicitly said on Tuesday that he would not take up an immigration bill without the support of a majority of his party.
Mr. Boehner's comments will make it harder for him to buck conservatives on an immigration overhaul, something that many party leaders consider crucial for Republicans hoping to regain their national standing with Hispanic voters. His position will also make it harder to strike a deal between the House and the Senate on a final immigration measure if the legislative process gets that far.
In insisting on a measure that most of his members can support, Mr. Boehner is calling for legislation that is likely to contain border security requirements and limits on attaining legal status that many Democrats and other proponents of new legislation will resist.
Mr. Boehner is well aware of the difficult political situation he finds himself in. When asked if he believed he could lose his job if he violated the Hastert rule on immigration, he said, to laughter, ''Maybe.'' Mr. Boehner would not initially say whether he would also require majority Republican support on any legislation to emerge from negotiations with the Senate over a final bill.
''We'll see when we get there,'' he said. But his staff later clarified that he would not violate the Hastert rule on anything coming out of conference, either.
Mr. Boehner's comments come as conservative Republicans are increasingly worried about how the immigration bill will be handled in the House. Representative Steve King, Republican of Iowa, a leading opponent of the immigration overhaul making its way through the Senate, plans to hold a six-hour news conference outside the Capitol on Wednesday to voice his concerns about the current bill. The House continued a piecemeal approach to immigration changes with the Republican-led House Judiciary Committee formally drafting a measure opposed by Democrats that would grant states and localities the authority to enforce federal immigration laws.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Members of United We Dream, an immigration advocacy group, on Tuesday rallied in Washington before a news conference. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM LO SCALZO/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)
 Speaker John A. Boehner said he would need support from a majority of House Republicans to bring a measure to the floor. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX WONG/GETTY IMAGES) CHARTS: Immigration Overhaul and the Budget: The Congressional Budget Office estimates that the immigration bill being debated in the Senate would increase revenues more than it increases spending, cutting budget deficits through 2023 by nearly $200 billion. The bill would cut deficits by an additional $700 billion during the following decade, from 2024 to 2033. (Source: Congressional Budget Office) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION LAW (92%); BUDGETS (91%); IMMIGRATION (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); MEDICAID (71%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (71%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (91%)

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (78%); JEFF SESSIONS (58%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2013



602 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 812 words

HEADLINE: Ex-UBS Trader in London Is Charged With Fraud in Libor Case

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER and BEN PROTESS

 BODY:
12:22 p.m. | Updated
British prosecutors have filed eight fraud charges against a former UBS trader UBS in the first criminal case here tied to the manipulation of global benchmark interest rates.
The case against the trader, Tom A. W. Hayes, follows United States charges brought against him and a fellow trader late last year.
UBS is one of more than a dozen global banks that have been ensnared in a multiyear investigation by United States, British and other authorities into the rigging of the London interbank offered rate, or Libor. Such benchmark rates help determine the borrowing costs for trillions of dollars of mortgages, business loans, credit cards and other financial products. 
With the latest criminal charges, Britain has escalated its part in the global crackdown on rate rigging. The Serious Fraud Office of Britain, which previously took a back seat to American authorities, said on Tuesday that Mr. Hayes had been charged that morning at a police station in London's financial district with offenses of conspiracy to defraud in connection with the continuing investigation into Libor. Mr. Hayes is scheduled to appear in a London Magistrates' Court on Thursday morning, the office said.
''He attended Bishopsgate police station this morning where he was charged by City of London Police with eight counts of fraud,'' the office said in a statement.
Mr. Hayes's lawyer, Lydia Jonson, declined to comment.
The charges are the latest setback for Mr. Hayes, 33, a British citizen who worked in Tokyo. Mr. Hayes and another former UBS trader, Roger Darin, 41, of Switzerland were already charged with conspiracy by the United States Justice Department in a criminal complaint that was unsealed in December. The Justice Department also charged Mr. Hayes with price fixing, stemming from an allegation that he had collaborated with another bank to rig interest rates.
The new charges were filed nearly a year after the first settlement in the Libor case, when Barclays of Britain agreed to pay $450 million to British and American authorities. American and British authorities later struck a settlement with Royal Bank of Scotland, which agreed in February to pay $612 million over its role in the Libor scandal.
Mr. Hayes, who also previously worked for Citigroup, figured prominently in a separate Libor case against UBS. Its Japanese subsidiary pleaded guilty last year to one count of felony wire fraud as part of a settlement with the Justice Department. Under a broader deal with American, British and Swiss authorities, UBS paid $1.5 billion to settle the case.
But while American and British authorities built these cases over several years, the Serious Fraud Office often appeared uninterested in the Libor investigation, at times irritating other prosecutors. Now, the British action against Mr. Hayes will test the somewhat tenuous relationship between the office and its American counterparts, setting up a potential turf battle over where he will stand trial.
When the Justice Department announced the first charges against Mr. Hayes last year, people at the agency in Washington privately expressed concern about extraditing him to the United States. With the Serious Fraud Office issuing its own charges against Mr. Hayes, the Justice Department's chances of trying a case in the United States became even dimmer.
David Green, who took over the Serious Fraud Office last year, has said that cooperation with the United States was important, but that Britons who worked for British companies should be tried in Britain.
Mr. Hayes was one of three people arrested and questioned by the police and the Serious Fraud Office last December. Two employees of the brokerage firm RP Martin Holdings were also held, but all three were released on bail pending further investigation.
The Justice Department's complaint contends Mr. Hayes was at the center of the rate-rigging activity. According to the complaint, in a November 2006 instant message to a junior UBS employee, Mr. Hayes explained that he and a colleague ''generally coordinate'' and ''skew the libors a bit.''
Mr. Hayes, prosecutors say, later spread the scheme to other firms, enlisting the help of middlemen at brokerage firms. He used the brokers, prosecutors say, to disseminate ''false and misleading interest rate information into the marketplace.''
Mr. Hayes left the Swiss bank and joined Citigroup, where he was a trader based in Tokyo. The bank suspended him in 2010 on suspicion of approaching a London trading desk about improperly influencing the yen-denominated Libor rates, said a person briefed on the matter who was not authorized to speak publicly. Mr. Hayes left Citigroup that year, and the bank reported its suspicions to authorities.
Julia Werdigier reported from London, and Ben Protess from New York.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); CONSPIRACY (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (89%); GUILTY PLEAS (78%); FELONIES (78%); WIRE FRAUD (78%); PRICE FIXING (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); MAGISTRATES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (72%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (68%); INTERBANK LENDING (68%)

COMPANY: UBS AG (85%); ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (63%); CITIGROUP INC (57%)

TICKER: UBSN (SWX) (85%); UBS (NYSE) (85%); RBS (NYSE) (63%); RBS (LSE) (63%); RBS (AMS) (63%); C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (85%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (63%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); TOKYO, JAPAN (71%) UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); SWITZERLAND (92%); JAPAN (71%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2013



603 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: A Deal Spares a Brooklyn Library, for Now

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

 BODY:
The 109-year-old Beaux-Arts library near the Barclays Center has been given a reprieve.
The Brooklyn Public Library had been planning to sell its Pacific branch on Fourth Avenue at Pacific Street to a private developer in order to raise money toward the $300 million needed for repairs and long-delayed maintenance of its branches, now numbering 60.
But officials said late on Monday that the Pacific branch would be spared from sale and demolition, at least for the near future, as part of a deal to win City Council approval for a 32-story residential and cultural tower opposite the Brooklyn Academy of Music that will contain a new library. 
''It has become clear that the neighborhood highly values that branch and its historic building,'' Jeremy Soffin, a spokesman for the Brooklyn Public Library, said in a statement. ''B.P.L. is committed to working with elected officials and community stakeholders to develop an appropriate plan for the Pacific Street building through an open community process. The plan will acknowledge the needs of the library and the community. This plan could include maintaining some or all of the Pacific Street building and continuing to provide library service and programming for children in the community.''
The branch is leaky, overcrowded, poorly air-conditioned and honeycombed with small office spaces librarians no longer use, officials say.
In an interview on Tuesday, Mr. Soffin said that the library system could not rule out selling the branch one day and allowing a builder to tear it down. But the understanding with the Council assures greater input from the community and the possibility that the facade, if not the entire building, could be retained in any future project. The building could be used as a library or other communal use, but its mission will depend on discussions with the affected neighborhoods.
Critics like Howard Kolins, president of the Boerum Hill Association, objected to the plan to close the branch because it would require many families to walk farther and cross Flatbush Avenue, which has heavy traffic. There is also deep affection for the quaint building, which was the first library in Brooklyn financed by Andrew Carnegie, who eventually built 1,689 across the United States.
Peter L. Bray, a trustee of the Park Slope Civic Council, which has advocated for the survival of the Pacific branch, said ''celebration is premature'' because there were still concerns that the library planned in the residential tower would not be a genuine neighborhood branch, but rather a regional library to be used for functions like storing the Brooklyn Academy of Music archives
''We really need to know more about the deal that was reached and how firm the commitment was regarding keeping the library functioning for a long period of time,'' Mr. Bray said. ''The devil is always in the details.''
Unlike for the Pacific branch's supporters, there was no encouraging news for residents of Brooklyn Heights who have been fighting to retain a 52-year-old limestone branch on Cadman Plaza. The Brooklyn system wants to sell the building to a private developer who would be required to include a library in any residential tower that is erected there. Mr. Soffin said the library system still intended to pursue those plans.
Michael D. D. White, a co-founder of Citizens Defending Libraries, which had fought to save both branches, said he feared that the Brooklyn library system was rushing to complete a contract for the sale of the branch in the months remaining in the Bloomberg administration.
''We think these things should be postponed until we have a new administration thinking differently,'' he said.
Government-financed agencies like the library system and the city's Education Department have been looking at aging buildings in highly desirable neighborhoods and considering selling them to raise hundreds of millions of dollars in a weak economy.
The reprieve for the Pacific library came as the Council voted to approve zoning and other changes needed to build a 32-story tower in Fort Greene a few blocks from the branch. Councilwoman Letitia James, whose district includes the tower site, insisted on maintaining the branch as part of any deal for the tower. Ms. James said the agreement provided that the Council would have to approve any disposition of the building, including a sale.
The new building would include a 16,500-square-foot library, movie theaters, retailing and restaurant space and a public plaza. Sixty of the 300 apartments would have to be affordable to families making roughly $40,000 to $80,000, Ms. James said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The life of the Beaux-Arts Pacific branch of the Brooklyn Public Library, on Fourth Avenue at Pacific Street, has been extended. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ULI SEIT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBRARIES (90%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (90%); FUNDRAISING (78%); LIBRARIANS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); FAMILY (75%); APPROVALS (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); INTERVIEWS (69%); CITIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2013



604 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 452 words

HEADLINE: Markets Rally, Awaiting Fed

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Stocks climbed on Tuesday, helped by reports showing low inflation and an increase in home building.
But the Federal Reserve loomed large, with investors trying to guess what the central bank will say on Wednesday about how long it plans to keep its stimulus programs in place. 
The market's gains were steady and broad. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 12.77 points, or 0.78 percent, to 1,651.81. All 10 of its sectors rose, led by industrial and telecommunications companies.
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 138.38 points, or 0.91 percent, to 15,318.23. The Nasdaq composite index rose 30.05 points, or 0.87 percent, to 3,482.18.
The wait-and-see atmosphere had a familiar template. The Fed has had an outsize effect on the stock market in recent weeks, with the major indexes seesawing as investors try to guess how long the central bank will keep supporting the economy.
Some investors say it is troubling that the market is relying more on the central bank for direction than on economic fundamentals. The latest turning point was May 22, when Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman, startled markets by announcing that the Fed could soon pull back on its bond-buying program if the economy improves.
''Here we are again,'' said Gregg S. Fisher, chief investment officer of Gerstein Fisher, a financial advisory firm in New York. ''We don't know what the actions will be. We're all trying to figure that out.''
The Fed, which is best known for helping set interest rates, has taken an increasingly bigger role in trying to bolster the economy since the 2008 financial crisis. Its bond-buying program is meant to keep interest rates low, which can encourage borrowing and drive investors into the stock market. The Fed's purchases have swollen its portfolio to $3.4 trillion, a fourfold increase since before the crisis.
Analysts predicted that Mr. Bernanke would use his news conference on Wednesday to cast a reassuring tone and make it clear that the Fed will not pull back on any of its programs until it is certain that the economy can handle it. He is also likely to drop more hints about when the Fed could start trimming its stimulus programs.
Some said that recent market volatility has not been caused by fear that the Fed would pull back on its stimulus programs -- most everyone expects that to happen eventually.
The Commerce Department reported on Tuesday that the pace of new home building increased in May, helped by more buyers coming to the market and a scarcity of houses for sale.
The Labor Department reported that consumer prices rose last month, but only slightly.
The benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell 2/32, to 96 5/32, bringing the yield up to 2.19 percent, from 2.18 percent late Monday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BONDS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (79%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BOND MARKETS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (66%); INTEREST RATES (63%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2013



605 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1300 words

HEADLINE: Making The Case For a Rise In Inflation

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

 BODY:
I was in Brazil in the early 1990s, when annual inflation topped 2,000 percent and Brazilians spent their entire paychecks as soon as they got them, buying a month's worth of food and other supplies before their money lost most of its value. When I moved there a few years later, inflation had been ''tamed'' to some 16 percent. But you couldn't buy oranges at the supermarket in packages of less than 20 pounds.
So I understand Paul Volcker's impatience with those tempted to let inflation rip -- at least a little bit -- to spur economic growth.
''The implicit assumption behind that siren call must be that the inflation rate can be manipulated to reach economic objectives -- up today, maybe a little more tomorrow, and then pulled back on command,'' Mr. Volcker said in a speech at the Economic Club of New York a few weeks ago. ''All experience amply demonstrates that inflation, when fairly and deliberately started, is hard to control and reverse.'' 
And yet despite Mr. Volcker's enormous skepticism about the merits of inflation, a heretical thought that first surfaced as the economic crisis gripped the world five years ago is again gaining traction among experts: economic policy should be aiming for significantly higher inflation than the 1 to 2 percent annual rate that the United States economy is currently experiencing.
When Mr. Volcker took the helm of the Federal Reserve in 1979, inflation neared 12 percent -- a catastrophe by American standards. He spent much of his eight-year tenure strangling the economy with high interest rates. By 1983 the unemployment rate surpassed 10 percent -- a feat not replicated even in the latest recession. He was reviled by home builders and auto dealers, whose businesses depend on credit. Prominent members of Congress asked him to resign.
Mr. Volcker ultimately won his battle. In 1986 he brought inflation below 2 percent. That's the pace that has since become the de facto definition of ''price stability,'' a target for central banks around the world. Among economic policy types, he is considered a hero.
But now mainstream economists like Kenneth Rogoff at Harvard are pressing the case that ''a sustained burst of moderate inflation is not something to worry about.''
''On the contrary,'' he wrote, ''in most regions, it should be embraced.''
The prescription fits the worldview of some ''monetarist'' economists, who argue that the Fed should set a higher target for the nominal gross domestic product, to be met through real economic growth and inflation. Conservative pundits like Josh Barro of Business Insider have welcomed inflation as the right's answer to fiscal stimulus -- a way to juice the economy without increasing government spending.
But it is hardly a conservative idea. Paul Krugman, a Nobel laureate and liberal columnist for The New York Times, has been writing about the benefits of higher inflation, arguing that policy makers should be using any available tool -- fiscal or monetary -- to try to reduce an unemployment rate stubbornly stuck at more than 7.5 percent for over four years.
To be sure, economists agree that inflation is no panacea. Higher inflation does not produce more growth or lower unemployment over the long term. There is a fairly solid consensus that unstable, volatile prices depress growth by short-circuiting decisions to spend and invest. That is why central bankers work so hard to ''anchor'' inflation expectations to a number.
But economists have also come to understand that an economy can suffer from too little inflation as well. Janet Yellen, the Fed's current vice chairwoman, convinced Alan Greenspan more than 15 years ago, when she was serving an earlier term on the Fed, that setting zero inflation as a target was a bad idea that would complicate the necessary adjustment of relative prices in the economy.
The experience of the Great Recession over the last five years has persuaded many economists, among them Olivier Blanchard, the chief economist at the International Monetary Fund, that a higher inflation target in good times would allow central banks to do more to fix things when the economy went bad.
With inflation anchored at 2 percent, real interest rates could fall no further than a negative 2 percent, hitting a floor when the nominal interest rate reached zero. If it had been anchored at 4 percent, real rates would have had further to go, providing a more robust boost to investment and spending.
These arguments apply to steady-state inflation in normal times. But with the economy still mired in the mud, and the odds of more fiscal stimulus near zero, economists like Mr. Rogoff and Gregory Mankiw of Harvard want to give the monetary screw another turn and have called on the Fed to engineer higher inflation now, aiming for maybe 4 percent or even 6 percent.
One main feature of inflation is that it reduces the real value of debt. Think of the $13 trillion in outstanding mortgages or the $12 trillion in government debt held by the public. Inflation would eat away at those obligations, without any need for bankruptcy lawyers. And it would leave more disposable income for Americans to spend.
Higher inflation in the United States would also weaken the dollar, helping exports. It would encourage people to spend now rather than sit on their cash.
And if the government engineered ''monetary repression'' to keep long-term interest rates below the economy's nominal growth rate, effectively forcing banks to buy lots of government bonds, a few years' worth of higher inflation could do wonders to reduce the public debt.
Mr. Rogoff points out that the case for higher inflation was stronger in 2008, when mortgage debt reached $14.5 trillion and debt service swallowed almost a fifth of households' disposable income. Still, he notes, a solid case remains for faster-rising prices around the world.
Higher inflation in Germany, Europe's juggernaut, would make it easier for the damaged economies that share the euro -- like Greece, Portugal and Spain -- to reduce their relative labor costs and increase their relative competitiveness.
Japan is finally giving higher prices a shot. In April, the new central bank governor, Haruhiko Kuroda, announced that he would pump huge amounts of yen into the economy to try to shake nearly two decades of stagnant, even falling, prices and raise inflation to 2 percent. While this would count as price stability by American standards, in Japan it amounts almost to runaway inflation.
Yet for all the merits of the argument, the chances of the policy's being more widely adopted are close to nil.
There is resistance from more than Mr. Volcker. Jeremy Stein, on the board of the Fed, has taken to worrying that the central bank's loose monetary policy is already imperiling the financial system, stoking future bubbles as banks load up on risky assets to achieve their profit targets. Mark Gertler at New York University worries that long-term interest rates would simply follow inflation up -- negating much of its benefit.
The Fed chairman, Ben Bernanke, told Congress last month that the central bank might soon move in the opposite direction, tightening monetary policy by cutting back on its program of bond purchases, which today total $85 billion a month.
And here's the best reason to be skeptical: even if the Fed wanted to engineer higher prices, it is far from obvious how it would do that.
The Fed is not just buying bonds. It is also keeping short-term interest rates at zero. And it promised to keep pushing the economy at least until the unemployment rate fell below 6.5 percent or inflation surpassed 2.5 percent.
And yet, inflation is going the other way. The economy is even flirting with deflation. The bigger risk in the United States is not that our money will buy fewer oranges tomorrow. It's that it will buy more.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Paul Volcker (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Economic Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); INFLATION (94%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); RECESSION (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); CONSERVATISM (72%); INTEREST RATES (69%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (64%); NEW CAR DEALERS (50%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2013



606 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1241 words

HEADLINE: G-8 Leaders Sidestep Differences Over Syria, but Advance Economic Goals

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES and STEPHEN CASTLE

 BODY:
ENNISKILLEN, Northern Ireland -- The United States and leaders of other major industrialized nations on Tuesday papered over differences on Syria and the global economy in statements that summarized their two-day annual summit meeting at a secluded lakeside resort here.
On the issue that dominated the private talks of the so-called Group of 8, the worsening regional war in Syria, the leaders averted a clash with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia by avoiding mention in their declaration of the most contentious matters that divide him and them. Those include the fate of President Bashar al-Assad of Syria, Russia's ally, in any peace settlement with the rebels.
And despite persistent differences between the Obama administration and the Europeans over Europe's insistence on continued budget cutting instead of stimulus measures in the face of Continentwide recession, the parties' final communiqué suggested agreement on economic policies in language that either side could embrace.
''Promoting growth and jobs is our top priority,'' it said in a line that belied divisions between the Americans and European leaders over whether austerity or stimulus best achieves the goal. 
The issue will remain alive, however, as President Obama went to Berlin on Tuesday evening for a state visit with Chancellor Angela Merkel, who as the head of Europe's major economy is most influential in determining the course of the 27-nation European Union. Ms. Merkel, who has lately eased just slightly Germany's demands on other indebted neighbors, attended the Group of 8 meeting, along with Mr. Obama and the leaders of Britain, Canada, France, Italy, Japan and Russia.
While economic issues typically are the focus of these meetings, this two-day gathering was preoccupied by the spike in tensions over the two-year-old Syrian conflict. The war has so far killed about 93,000 people, including women and children, the United Nations recently estimated.
After lengthy negotiations the leaders endorsed the idea of holding a new peace conference in Geneva ''as soon as possible,'' something that Prime Minister David Cameron of Britain, the meeting's host, said had been ''slipping away'' before the discussions.
The Geneva meeting is now likely to be delayed until late August or September, according to one Western official who spoke on the condition of anonymity. That has fueled fears that Mr. Putin is playing for time on Mr. Assad's behalf, calculating that by late summer Syria's fragmented opposition will be further weakened by military reverses.
The leaders' declaration gave a little more detail about how a transition to a new government in Syria would work. But its cautionary language and the absence of a call for Mr. Assad's departure -- as Mr. Obama and some European leaders demand -- underscored the extent to which Mr. Putin supported the Syrian leader, despite being heavily outnumbered in discussions on Monday with the seven other heads of state.
Though Russia is Syria's principal arms supplier, Mr. Putin warned the others against United States plans to begin sending some light arms and ammunition to Syrian rebels; even before Mr. Obama's decision, France and Britain supported an end to a European embargo on arms transfers to the opposition.
Mr. Putin, playing on the others' fears that the rebels include extremists allied with Al Qaeda, repeated his contention that the disparate opposition could not form an alternative government, according to another Western diplomat who spoke on the condition of anonymity because of the delicacy of the discussions.
Nevertheless, as those allied against Russia at the meeting noted, the summit declaration did include an implicit appeal to members of Mr. Assad's government to abandon him, by suggesting that they could survive in a new government that excluded him. It said that public services in Syria must be preserved in a transition, and specified that ''this includes the military forces and security services.''
Mr. Cameron, in a post-summit news conference, said, ''For those who have been loyal to Assad but who know he has to go and who want stability in their country, they should take note of this point.''
The leaders condemned the use of chemical weapons in Syria but, again in deference to Mr. Putin, did not blame Mr. Assad for using them against the rebels as the Americans, British and French allege. It called for an ''objective investigation into reports of the use of chemical weapons,'' though the United States, France and Britain all claim to have hard evidence of the lethal use of such weapons to take to the United Nations.
''Both of our governments have strong evidence that in fact chemical weapons have been used in the past by the Assad regime,'' Mr. Obama told reporters on Tuesday after a private meeting with President François Hollande of France. ''But we are very comfortable with the approach taken by the G-8 that allows the U.N. the full powers it needs to investigate and establish these facts on the ground.''
The communiqué also evenhandedly called on both the Syrian government and opposition ''to commit to destroying and expelling from Syria all organizations and individuals affiliated with Al Qaeda and any other nonstate actors linked to terrorism.''
Despite the clear divisions between Russia and everyone else -- something that both Mr. Obama and Mr. Putin had archly acknowledged after a one-on-one meeting on Monday -- the White House released a statement on the summit that applauded ''the international consensus that was reached on Syria.''
In support of that positive take, the administration cited the agreement on a political process in Geneva to resolve the conflict, investigation of chemical weapons use and $1.5 billion in additional humanitarian support for Syrians.
The leaders, dressed casually throughout, met in a high-ceilinged room of a lodge at table small enough to reach across and shake hands, and near windows looking out at Lake Erne, for which the resort it is named.
Of the economic issues, a prominent was one placed on the agenda by Mr. Cameron. He raised the question of cooperation against both illegal tax evasion and legal ruses that multinational companies use to reduce their tax liabilities.
While much about the tax crackdown promise was left to each nation's discretion and lawmaking, the leaders agreed to press for more openness to disclose who owns companies and to deepen information-sharing between tax authorities.
On the broader issue of global economic policy, which often had dominated these meetings since the international financial crisis in late 2008, the leaders were equally vague and even self-congratulatory despite continued high unemployment, especially in much of Europe.
The declaration claimed that economic risks internationally had been reduced partly by ''significant policy actions taken in the U.S., euro area and Japan.'' Without specifics, it said that ''decisive action is needed to nurture a sustainable recovery and restore the resilience of the global economy'' through a balance of stimulus, budget cuts and other measures.
And in a nod to the divisions both between the United States and Europe, and between Germany and other European nations, the leaders concluded their statement by calling for reductions in national budget deficits and debt, saying in the declaration, ''The pace of fiscal consolidation should be differentiated for our different national economic circumstances.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Leaders of the Group of 8 industrialized nations, joined by European Commission and European Council officials, posed outside their meeting halls in Enniskillen, Northern Ireland, on Tuesday at the end of their annual two-day summit meeting. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATT CARDY/GETTY IMAGES) MAP 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); RECESSION (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (68%); BUDGET CUTS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (93%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (78%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (78%); BARACK OBAMA (75%); DAVID CAMERON (53%); ANGELA MERKEL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (96%); SYRIA (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTHERN IRELAND (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); CANADA (79%); FRANCE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2013



607 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1275 words

HEADLINE: Obama and Putin Signal a More Businesslike Path

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

 BODY:
MOSCOW -- At times during their 12-minute joint appearance on Monday evening, Barack Obama and Vladimir V. Putin seemed locked in a frowning contest, their fingers laced tensely in their laps, eyes narrowed, lips pressed tightly together -- especially when they noted their continuing disagreement about Syria.
But ultimately it was not the furrowed brows but the hearty handshake at the end that best summed up the presidents' two-hour meeting on the sidelines of the Group of 8 conference in Northern Ireland -- a signal that relations between the United States and Russia have entered a more businesslike phase.
President Obama's remarks during the joint appearance were notable for what was left unsaid: not once did he criticize Mr. Putin over human rights or the rule of law. He did not mention the prosecution of opposition leaders in Russia, the criminal trials of rank-and-file political demonstrators or recent pressure on nonprofit groups. 
Instead, Mr. Obama began by thanking Mr. Putin for Russia's cooperation in the investigation of the Boston Marathon bombing and ended by praising a deal with the Russian president to extend a joint program that has worked to dismantle chemical and other nonconventional weapons in the former Soviet Union.
''I think this is an example of the kind of constructive, cooperative relationship that moves us out of a cold war mind-set into the realm where, by working together, we not only increase security and prosperity for the Russian and American people, but also help lead the world to a better place,'' Mr. Obama said.
Russia had announced that it would not renew the program, called the Nunn-Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction Program, which was set to expire, because it gave the United States too big a role in Russia's military affairs. In recent talks, the countries agreed to limit the program's scope in Russia but expand it to try to eliminate similar weapons elsewhere.
''This will allow us to continue to work with Russia to secure nuclear materials not just in our countries, but also in third countries,'' Benjamin J. Rhodes, a deputy national security adviser, said in a briefing after the meeting.
Mr. Rhodes said that Mr. Obama raised the issue of human rights privately with Mr. Putin, but mainly to refute the allegation that the United States was somehow working against Mr. Putin or Russia.
''What you see in the public back-and-forth on these issues is the sense that our concern about human rights is intended to undermine the Russian government in some way,'' Mr. Rhodes said. ''The president's point that he made is simply that the United States speaks out for certain things as a matter of principle; it's not targeted at any political agenda. And that's something we do all over the world, it's not unique to Russia.''
The Obama administration's decision to focus on clinching deals rather than delivering messages was perhaps most evident in the announcement by Mr. Obama and Mr. Putin that they would create a working group on improving trade and investment to be led by Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and Prime Minister Dmitri A. Medvedev.
When Congress acted in December to grant Russia full status as a trading partner, an effort that was decades in the making, the announcement was overshadowed by another component of the legislation seeking to punish human rights abuses in Russia, and by the Russian retaliation, which included a ban on adoptions of Russian orphans by Americans.
Despite heavy pressure from members of Congress and prospective parents who had been in the middle of the adoption process when the ban took hold on Jan. 1, Mr. Obama made no mention of the adoption issue, stressing only the push for closer economic ties.
''We had extensive discussions about how we can further deepen our economic and commercial relationships,'' Mr. Obama said, adding, ''I think we're poised to increase both trade and investment between our two countries. And that can create jobs and business opportunities, both for Russians and Americans.''
The leaders also announced that they had reached a deal for greater cooperation on cybersecurity threats, including an exchange of practical and technical information on risks to critical computer systems. The agreement will include the establishment of a direct secure voice communications line between the United States cybersecurity coordinator in Washington and the deputy secretary of Russia's Security Council in Moscow.
Mr. Obama quickly came under criticism from human rights advocates who want to see the Kremlin pressured about a recent crackdown on political dissent and civil society groups.
David J. Kramer, the president of Freedom House, an advocacy group in Washington, said that Mr. Obama had sent a demoralizing message to rights advocates in Russia. ''He hasn't uttered a single word about the worst deterioration in Russia's human rights situation since the breakup of the Soviet Union,'' Mr. Kramer said in a telephone interview. ''I find that very troubling.
In this sense, the more transactional relationship is a victory for Mr. Putin, who has stressed that he will not tolerate meddling in Russia's domestic affairs.
But the decision by the White House also reflected a realpolitik understanding that attempts by others, including Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and former President George W. Bush, to put pressure on Mr. Putin have not resulted in any change.
''Think about it from the perspective of what your objective is and how you can accomplish that,'' said Samuel Charap, a senior fellow and Russia expert at the International Institute for Strategic Studies. ''We don't condition security cooperation on human rights and democracy,'' he said. ''Does engaging extensively on these issues get you anywhere with Putin? I think we have a pretty strong track record that it usually gets you nowhere.''
Mr. Obama has also made clear that he views further reductions in the American and Russian nuclear arsenals as a potential legacy issue, and one that should not fall victim to shorter-term political considerations.
Relations between the countries had soured significantly over the past 18 months, beginning with a torrent of anti-American rhetoric during Mr. Putin's 2012 presidential campaign. In an interview just last week with the Russia Today news network here, Mr. Putin repeated his assertion that the State Department had been supporting his political opponents, an allegation that Washington denies.
Cooperation on the investigation into the Boston Marathon bombing, including scrutiny of the two suspects, who had roots in Russia's Caucasus region, helped improve relations.
And though the two sides continue to disagree fiercely over Syria, the Russian foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, and Secretary of State John Kerry appear to be developing a relatively strong working relationship.
It was Mr. Kerry and Mr. Lavrov, during a meeting in Moscow, who announced the effort to hold an international conference on Syria and to bring all sides to the negotiating table. Mr. Obama and Mr. Putin, while citing their differences, said Monday that remained their shared goal.
''Of course our opinions do not coincide,'' Mr. Putin said of the Syria issue. But he added, ''We agreed to push the parties to the negotiating table.''
Still, hints of continuing tensions were evident. Near the end of their appearance, Mr. Obama joked that they had discussed judo, one of Mr. Putin's favorite sports, and Mr. Obama's declining basketball skills, and had agreed that they were getting older. Mr. Putin quickly replied that Mr. Obama was trying to hustle him ''with his statement that he is getting weaker.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); COLD WAR (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (69%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (68%); BOMBINGS (66%); 2013 BOSTON MARATHON BOMBING (52%)

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (57%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (91%); BARACK OBAMA (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (75%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (74%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (75%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); SYRIA (92%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2013



608 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 671 words

HEADLINE: Surviving the Next Gulf Oil Spill

BYLINE: By BEN RAINES. 
Ben Raines is executive director of the Weeks Bay Foundation, a group dedicated to protecting coastal land.

 BODY:
FAIRHOPE, Ala. -- DOWN here on the Gulf of Mexico, the air is heavy with expectation as we await the arrival of billions of dollars in fines from companies involved in the BP oil-well blowout, which spewed millions of gallons of oil into the gulf over three months in 2010.
The Restore Act, signed by President Obama last year, sets aside 80 percent of the civil fines assessed under the federal Clean Water Act for use in the five gulf states -- Alabama, Florida, Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas. Politicians and environmentalists in each of those states have been busy concocting ways to spend the windfall -- though it is unclear exactly how much it will be. 
The money will mostly be split among the states and a new entity, the Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council, composed of state and federal officials. There are already plenty of ideas among the states for spending the cash, including constructing a sea wall around the city jail in Mobile, Ala., and deepening shipping channels. Biloxi, Miss., is using money already given to the state by BP to build a baseball stadium.
Here's another idea: the states and the council should require that a nickel of every dollar they control be used to buy and protect coastal marshes and wetlands. It is the most important thing they can do to help the gulf survive the next oil spill.
We have all seen the devastation wrought in coastal Louisiana -- marshes that remain so contaminated with oil three years on that they can't support insect life, never mind sea creatures. Fortunately, marshes in coastal Alabama, Mississippi, Texas and Florida mostly escaped damage from the spill, protected by barrier islands and luck. Those marshes have continued their work powering the entire coastal ecosystem by nurturing the young of nearly everything that swims in the gulf. In fact, these marshes are the single biggest reason the gulf has rebounded as well as it has from the spill.
But the marshes are in decline across the gulf. They have been for decades, the result of levee construction, the channelization of rivers, dredging, erosion and development. It is estimated that more than 50 percent have already been lost. Louisiana has been the most severely affected -- the state's coast has lost 1,900 square miles in the last 80 years -- and even more will be lost, which makes the marshes in the surrounding states all the more important.
These marshes are our most valuable, and most vulnerable, coastal habitat. They can disappear beneath the developers' backhoes in the blink of an eye. The recession derailed a lot of planned coastal development, much of it in the marshland fringing the gulf's estuaries. As the economy ramps back up, those plans will be rekindled. Marshes will be turned into boat slips and condos, unless we protect them.
The Restore Act windfall represents a critical chance to grab up and safeguard some of the remaining marshes and coastal wetlands. If we don't use a nickel of every Restore Act dollar to buy coastal lands, it's a sure bet somebody will find another jail that needs a sea wall. Or, as happened in Alabama, a governor will propose building an $85 million hotel and conference center in a state park with money already provided by BP.
Conservation groups have a long wish list of areas that deserve special protection, from the Mexican border to the tip of the Florida Keys. Any new purchases would become public lands, managed by federal or state entities, or by coastal land trusts like Alabama's Weeks Bay Foundation, where I work.
The restoration council recently released a draft plan with a series of broad goals -- including restoring and conserving habitat and replenishing and protecting coastal resources. The public comment period for the council's plan closes Monday. One of its goals should be to preserve as many hunks of undeveloped shoreline as possible, in as many locations as possible. That way, no matter where the next oil spill comes ashore, we'll have marshes, wetlands and maritime forests ready to restore the gulf.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PAULA SEARING) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL SPILLS (90%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (90%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FINES & PENALTIES (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (89%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (89%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (89%); RIVERS (87%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EROSION (76%); LAND RECLAMATION (76%); WETLANDS (76%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (76%); ISLANDS & REEFS (76%); MARINE & WATERWAY CONSTRUCTION (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (71%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (70%); WATER QUALITY (69%); BASEBALL (66%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (66%)

COMPANY: BP PLC (91%)

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (91%); BP (LSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (91%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (91%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (91%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOBILE, AL, USA (79%); BILOXI, MS, USA (79%) ALABAMA, USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (93%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (93%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); GULF OF MEXICO (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2013



609 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1410 words

HEADLINE: Energized by Bloomberg's Exit, Labor Chiefs Try to Sway Race

BYLINE: By JAVIER C. HERNÁNDEZ

 BODY:
After more than a decade of sitting out the fiercest race in town, leaders of the United Federation of Teachers are plotting a comeback.
They have so much polling data that they can pinpoint the views of Puerto Ricans and Chinese immigrants alike. They can tailor messages based on brands of toilet paper voters buy. Normally busy handling complaints from teachers, they are now scouring financial records and questioning candidates about $4,000 restaurant bills.
And on Wednesday, the union will throw its sophisticated political machine behind a candidate for mayor of New York City.
Unions across the city, after years of low morale and stalled contract negotiations, are roaring back to life this election season, excited by the prospect of installing a friend of labor in City Hall when Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg leaves office at the end of the year. 
Some groups, like the teachers' union, are expected to spend several million dollars on the race. Several labor leaders are weighing advertising blitzes aimed at the broader public. Political organizers are training callers, social media activists and door-to-door canvassers.
''Politics in the city are shifting,'' Michael Mulgrew, president of the teachers' union, said. ''It's not a pipe dream. We're going to be a force.''
Labor leaders face several challenges as they seek to reassert themselves as political heavyweights in a city that has not elected a Democrat for mayor since 1989. In a crowded field, they are split over whom to endorse, causing concern that they might cancel one another out.
At a time of declining union membership and lingering economic turmoil, the strength of organized labor is unclear. Public officials across the country, including Mr. Bloomberg, a political independent, have cast doubt on their motives, and pushed back against demands from municipal workers for retroactive raises and more generous health benefits. And a new pro-business group in New York is preparing to spend millions on City Council races.
Still, political experts say there is potential for organized labor to sway the mayoral election. Analysts expect only modest turnout -- around 650,000 voters, or about one-fifth of registered Democrats -- in the Democratic primary in September. A runoff election is widely expected, raising the stakes.
Each of the city's large unions can be valuable to different candidates. Unions representing lower-paid service workers might be able to deliver black and Latino voters for candidates who will rely more heavily on them, like William C. Thompson Jr., a former comptroller, and Bill de Blasio, the public advocate. The teachers' union, whose membership is more middle-class, says it has a database of 171,000 teachers, retirees and their relatives.
''Unions know their membership and can motivate them,'' said Edward F. Ott, a lecturer at the Joseph S. Murphy Institute for Worker Education and Labor Studies at the City University of New York. ''The impact may be reduced and spread across a lot of candidates, but they'll definitely have an impact.''
Exactly how much the unions will spend in the mayoral race depends on several factors, including whether they face competition from other unions or from political action groups seeking to dampen the influence of organized labor.
''It could be the wild, wild West,'' said Neal Kwatra, a Democratic strategist whose clients include unions, ''or it could be business as usual.''
The teachers' union endorsement is considered a prize because of its politically engaged work force, a treasury of at least $2.5 million and a team that has refined its political operations after years of bitter feuds with Mr. Bloomberg.
The seven leading Democratic candidates for mayor are mostly in line with the union's ideology, backing its calls to reduce testing and offer more support to failing schools. In recent days, some have stepped up their efforts to court the union's leaders.
Mr. Thompson, a former president of the city's Board of Education, recently announced a plan to give each teacher a $200 budget for classroom supplies. On Tuesday, he picked up the support of the principals' union, the Council of School Supervisors and Administrators.
Mr. de Blasio, another leading candidate for the teachers' union's endorsement, stood with Mr. Mulgrew last week to denounce high-stakes testing.
The union last made an endorsement for mayor in 2001, when it selected Mark Green, a Democrat, over Mr. Bloomberg, then a Republican. It did not enter the contests in 2005 and 2009, wary of Mr. Bloomberg's vast financial resources. Some union officials regretted the decision to skip the 2009 race, after Mr. Thompson, then the Democratic nominee, came within striking distance of Mr. Bloomberg, who spent more than $100 million of his fortune on that race alone.
When Mr. Mulgrew became the union's president in 2009, he set out to modernize its political operations. In the past, he said, candidates were chosen based on personal relationships. Now union officials look to polls and focus groups, tossing around terms like ''burn rates'' and ''propensity models.''
The union has become adroit in scrutinizing public spending records to gauge which candidates are more efficient stewards of campaign money. It can examine, for instance, how much a candidate earns at a fund-raiser relative to how much he or she spends on catering, entertainment and facilities.
With a trove of data on the table, conversations between the candidates and Mr. Mulgrew have turned into cross-examinations. He has set benchmarks for each of them, asking them to prove they could build support among crucial demographic groups, like Hispanic voters in Upper Manhattan.
''It's all about a path to victory,'' he said.
On Wednesday, Mr. Mulgrew will recommend a candidate to union delegates, who are expected to approve the choice that day. He is said to be focusing on two candidates -- Mr. de Blasio and Mr. Thompson -- though he has also expressed admiration for Christine C. Quinn, the Council speaker. He faces pressure from Local 1199 of the Service Employees International Union, the city's largest union, which has lobbied him to create a broad labor coalition by following its lead and endorsing Mr. de Blasio. Another influential union, District Council 37, has endorsed John C. Liu, the city comptroller.
A central part of the union's strategy for this election is to use tools more common in national campaigns. It has put together a database of its members, and bought access to information like the purchasing history of people who use chain-store rewards cards. For example, the union might focus calls and mailings on people who buy top-shelf brands of toilet paper or other products, which typically suggest that a person has a higher income and is more likely to vote. It could also use the information to tailor advertisements to certain groups of voters, like placing a container of Cherry Garcia in an ad directed at people who buy Ben & Jerry's ice cream.
This year, public sector unions are bolstering their political operations after several years of failed negotiations. More than 282,000 unionized workers are without a contract, representing 95 percent of the city's work force. Workers are seeking as much as $7.8 billion in retroactive raises for the time they have been without a contract. Mr. Bloomberg has said the city does not have the money.
In response, union leaders representing those workers are letting the clock tick as they build political support. Several unions joined together to produce a $200,000 advertising campaign recently. A radio ad said in part: ''The people who keep this city running: hard-working, middle-class New Yorkers. They count. They vote.''
Harry Nespoli, leader of a committee of unions representing municipal workers, said they wanted a mayor who would work with unions to find savings in the city budget to pay for wage increases.
''We don't expect the new mayor to give away the store,'' he said. ''We expect the new mayor to recognize the fact that we are the city and that we should have negotiations in good faith.''
Even if the city's labor leaders do not coalesce around one candidate, Mr. Nespoli said, they are united in their frustration with Mr. Bloomberg, who on Monday compared the endorsement of the teachers' union to the ''kiss of death.''
Union officials now have their own retort. They have taken to repeating three numbers, 12-31-13, a reference to the mayor's final day in office.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''It's not a pipe dream,'' said Michael Mulgrew, president of the United Federation of Teachers. ''We're going to be a force.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC THAYER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A25) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (91%); TEACHER UNIONS (91%); POLITICS (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (77%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); POLITICAL ORGANIZING (75%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (75%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (72%); RESTAURANTS (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); CIVIL SERVICES (62%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (91%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2013



610 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 187 words

HEADLINE: Coal Exports and Prosperity

 BODY:
To the Editor:
As ''Future of an Industry and a Tribe Hinges on a Coal Export Battle'' (''The Energy Rush'' series, front page, June 15) points out, the huge Montana coal deposits owned by the Crow Nation contain exactly the kind of high-quality coal that Asian markets demand. Earnings from the potential export of coal, you note, is the difference between just getting by and prospering for the Crow Nation. 
Benefits of coal exports extend much further, providing millions of dollars of income to the families of those who extract the coal, move it along American railways and work in American shipping ports.
Coal has always meant jobs and affordable energy. In today's economy, we cannot afford to let either asset slip away simply because opponents of coal refuse to recognize exponential gains in creating cleaner, more efficient coal-fueled generation facilities.
Export markets represent the chance to revive local economies. Those who have little invested in these economies should not deny American workers that opportunity.
HAL QUINN President and Chief Executive National Mining Association Washington, June 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COAL INDUSTRY (94%); COAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (93%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); COAL MINING (90%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); MINES & MINING (73%); EXECUTIVES (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2013



611 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIX; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 477 words

HEADLINE: A New Signature For U.S. Currency

BYLINE: By CATHERINE RAMPELL

 BODY:
7:50 p.m. | Updated
Those awaiting a new, Slinky-like John Hancock to grace their dollar bills may be disappointed. On Tuesday, the Treasury Department released a copy of Secretary Jacob Lew's signature, to appear on the bottom of newly printed dollar bills as early as the fall, and Mr. Lew's famous loops are gone. 
The new signature is illegible, but it looks like a traditional signature. It is starkly different from previous copies of his signature that surfaced from his days as White House chief of staff and director of the Office of Management and Budget:
That earlier signature -- a roller-coastering series of (usually) seven connected loops, resembling a long series of zeros or O's -- had attracted widespread mockery and armchair psychoanalysis from the media and Twitterverse, and had been compared to a crazy straw, the icing on a Hostess cupcake, and Charlie Brown's hair. The signature even made appearances on ''The Daily Show'' and ''The Colbert Report.''
Asked about his opinion of the new signature on Tuesday afternoon, John Oliver, who is the host of ''The Daily Show'' this summer, said he hadn't seen it yet. ''What is it now, a series of squares?'' he said. ''Has he moved onto a new form of geometry? Or does it look like a real adult's signature?''
The Treasury Department declined to provide a comment from Mr. Lew about the evolution of his signature, but said he did not go through any particular training to get his signature up to snuff.
A spokeswoman explained that once a new secretary is sworn in, there is an 18-week process during which the Bureau of Engraving and Printing produces a new currency. That process includes getting the signature (the secretary sat down and signed a couple of sheets of paper in a binder 10 times, one of which was ultimately chosen to be used on every new bill that is printed); approving the signature for technical reproduction; and getting the printing plates made.
The first bills to feature Mr. Lew's signature will be five-dollar bills that will roll off the presses later this summer, and appear in circulation as early as the fall. The Federal Reserve, which controls the money supply, determines exactly when the bills appear in circulation.
It's common for both Treasury secretaries and treasurers, who also sign currency, to ''practice and refine'' their signatures, the spokeswoman said. Mr. Lew's predecessor, Timothy F. Geithner, had also acknowledged in an interview on ''Marketplace'' that his signature had evolved. When the interviewer, Kai Ryssdal, said he preferred the old version of the signature, Mr. Geithner said, ''I think on the dollar bill I had to write something where people could read my name.''
''I didn't try for elegance. I tried for clarity,'' he added.
One Web site offers a collection of all the Treasury secretary signatures that have appeared on American currency.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Caption

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (89%); INTERVIEWS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); APPROVALS (70%); MONEY SUPPLY (67%)

COMPANY: BUREAU OF ENGRAVING INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8299 SCHOOLS & EDUCATIONAL SERVICES, NEC (53%); SIC2759 COMMERCIAL PRINTING, NEC (53%)

PERSON: JACK LEW (92%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2013



612 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1987 words

HEADLINE: A Void in Coney Island

BYLINE: By C. J. HUGHES

 BODY:
For over 30 years, Horace Bullard's visions for Coney Island amounted to little more than a boardwalk of broken dreams.
His plans for year-round amusement parks and bustling commerce for full-time employment never came to fruition. The properties he bought up in the 1970s and '80s -- the Shore Theater, the Thunderbolt roller coaster and the Playland Arcade -- either remain dilapidated and largely vacant, or have been utterly vanquished.
And while a burst of new retail development and two additional amusement parks have been attracting more visitors to Coney Island, Mr. Bullard's ideas for a few key parcels seem stalled again. He died of Lou Gehrig's disease in April, prompting his lone heir, his daughter, Jasmine, to remove his properties, including the decrepit but landmark-status Shore Theater, from the market for the first time in years. 
To hear Mr. Bullard's friends, relatives and business associates tell it, the deals that fell through over the years closely follow the ups and downs of Coney Island itself. In the 1940s, when Mr. Bullard was a child living in the Soundview section of the Bronx, his family would take the subway to Coney Island a few times each summer, recalled his sister, Nellie Bullard, a retired nurse in Florida. They would eat Nathan's hot dogs and ride the Thunderbolt. ''Those were the real good days,'' she said, before the beach resort area declined precipitously in the 1960s and '70s.
Born in 1938 in East Harlem, Mr. Bullard grew up impoverished as the son of a black father, who was a plumber, and a Puerto Rican mother who raised five children. He began working at the age of 8 shining shoes, according to a television interview produced for the Manhattan Neighborhood Network TV channel in the early 2000s.
And although he said he largely shrugged off prejudice, his sister blamed racism for his failure to secure a Kentucky Fried Chicken franchise in New York in the 1960s. But he later turned that to his advantage, having a friend analyze the chain's batter and adding Puerto Rican spices, or ''a touch of love,'' his sister said.
In 1968, that recipe grew into Kansas Fried Chicken, a chain named for Max's Kansas City, a popular nightclub in Lower Manhattan where Mr. Bullard liked to spend time, said Ita Lew Bullard, who said she was his common-law wife for 35 years until they separated in 2002. He made his fortune from the chain, which once had 18 locations across the country -- including one on the ground floor of the Shore Theater.
The business eventually closed, but the profits enabled Mr. Bullard to buy up properties on Coney Island and to begin dreaming of restoring the resort area's luster with new or improved rides and parks.
''He wanted year-round amusements, year-round employees,'' said Ralph Perfetto, a Coney Island resident and political organizer who knew Mr. Bullard since the 1970s. ''It would make the neighborhood safe at night, it would be lighted up and clean, so we were strongly in favor of Horace Bullard.'' Even Mr. Bullard's stationery was inscribed with carnival rides on it.
He bought the Shore Theater for $125,000 in 1979, Ms. Lew Bullard said. Within a few years, Mr. Bullard had assembled enough land to unveil a $450 million plan for a new amusement park on the site of the former Steeplechase Park, which included a 110,500-square-foot parcel between Surf Avenue and the boardwalk where the old Thunderbolt ride, immortalized in ''Annie Hall,'' once sat. But financing fell apart when Wall Street tumbled in the late 1980s. Then, in what would turn into a drawn-out battle with City Hall, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani revoked Mr. Bullard's approvals for the project, in 1994, two months after taking office. Eventually, the city demolished the Thunderbolt.
Even when Mr. Bullard later lined up prominent development partners, he said his projects never received a go-ahead from the city. In later interviews, he blamed racist attitudes for the roadblocks.
Jasmine Bullard declined to explain her reasoning for removing the parcels from the market. In an interview, she said: ''I share my father's vision for a better Coney Island. But I don't have any plans that are specific right now.''
Analysts say her decision may be a signal that the properties aren't going to be sold at discounted prices as part of some fire sale simply because Mr. Bullard has died. Others say Ms. Bullard would be wise to wait, as improving land values, based in part on the increasing revival of parts of Coney Island, may enable her to get even higher prices for her holdings after the summer winds die down.
For years, the theater, built in 1925 but shuttered since the 1970s, had been listed at $12 million with Joe Vitacco Jr., a longtime friend, and for the last six months, with Coldwell Banker Reliable, a local brokerage, at an undisclosed price, until it was taken off the market a few week ago. Real estate agents suggested that the listing took into account at least $15 million needed in renovations. Sections of the inside resemble a bombed-out shell.
Between January and June of this year, however, the building received more than 200 sales inquiries, 10 of which were presented in writing to Ms. Bullard, said Richard DiPietro, a Coldwell agent. ''We are finally starting to see things happen,'' he said.
Similarly no longer being actively marketed is the site of the former Steeplechase Park. Until Ms. Bullard's decisions to unlist the land, that rectangular parcel, adjacent to MCU Park, the baseball stadium for the Brooklyn Cyclones, had been listed at $90 million with Mr. Vitacco.
Some friends and business associates say Mr. Bullard was never the same after the Thunderbolt was razed in 2000. ''He started out as a strong, vibrant and handsome young man, and I saw him age because of what happened,'' Mr. Perfetto said. ''He got gray hair and didn't have that spark in his eyes like he used to.'' Mr. Bullard ultimately won a $1 million settlement from the city, but according to Mr. Bullard's lawyer, Barry S. Gedan, refused to collect the money because it came from taxpayers.
His daughter disputed accounts that her father's spirit was broken by the demolition, saying he was happy-go-lucky until the end of his life. ''He would never waste his time being hung up on something that didn't come to fruition from the past,'' she said.
These days, Mr. Bullard's beloved stretches of Coney Island are recovering from the damage done by Hurricane Sandy. While the boardwalk has been repaired and debris swept away, there are still chain-link fences walling off dangerous sections and the New York Aquarium has curtailed the number of exhibits open to the public.
Today, if Mr. Bullard were to saunter just outside of the Coney Island-Stillwell Avenue subway terminal, to the intersection of Surf Avenue and Stillwell, he might see private investment that's been a success.
Some plans are still like the wisps of cotton candy spun alongside the amusement rides, waiting for more development. But at that corner, Thor Equities has constructed a $9 million, 15,000-square-foot, one-story building to house several new shops. It was nearly complete before Hurricane Sandy came ashore on Oct. 29, according to Joseph J. Sitt, Thor's chief executive.
Today, though, the building, whose glittering sign features the grinning vaudevillian that is Coney Island's unofficial mascot, is nearly full, with stores having leased six of its seven berths. The stores are a mix of seasonal and year-round retail, and the building can be expanded to six stories.
The candy chain It'Sugar, where Sour Patch Kids can be scooped for $2.99 a quarter-pound, has taken a long-term lease for a 2,000-square-foot corner space, paying $140 a square foot, according to Mr. Sitt.
The Nets Shop by Adidas, selling the N.B.A. team's black-and-white tank tops and other basketball gear, sits at the opposite corner of the building, with a comparable rent, Mr. Sitt said. Four other tenants, some of whom have yet to move in, are renting space averaging about $15 a foot under short-term leases for the summer season. Average asking rents along Surf Avenue are about $40 a square foot, according to Coldwell Banker Reliable.
Among those seasonal leaseholders are Coney Island Convenience, stocking beach paraphernalia like inflatable toys in a 2,500-square-foot space; and Wampum, a skateboard shop that started in Bridgehampton, N.Y., in 2011.
''This place definitely has a different feel than the Hamptons,'' said Marley Ficalora, a Wampum partner, who said he had never visited Coney Island until last winter. ''But we think it is really turning around, and we want to be a part of it.''
Signs of the intensive efforts that got Coney Island and other beachfront amusement areas up and running for the summer season are everywhere.
In fact, Nathan's, the Surf Avenue hot dog landmark shuttered by the hurricane -- the first time it had ever closed since it opened in 1916 -- resumed serving its well-known fare on May 19.
Mr. Sitt grew up in nearby Gravesend, and the commercial building development is his first project in the area since he began snapping up properties there a decade ago. At one time he owned 12.5 acres, but sold seven acres, mostly along the boardwalk, to the city in 2009 for $95.6 million.
The same year, the city rezoned the neighborhood, reducing the size of the amusement area to 27 acres. Since then, two new amusement parks have opened: Luna Park, in 2010, and Scream Zone, in 2011, joining the existing Deno's Wonder Wheel park. The New York City Economic Development Corporation says that visitors to the two new parks reached 2.6 million. This spring, the city cut the ribbon on Steeplechase Plaza, at the boardwalk and West 19th Street, whose centerpiece is a refurbished carousel.
Mr. Sitt said he wanted to build hotels, stores and movie theaters on his remaining parcels, which cluster near Surf Avenue, but is awaiting new sewer lines The city has pledged $130 million for sewer improvements, the economic development agency said.
Mr. Sitt suggested that the rezoning didn't go far enough, adding that hotel operators would need zoning changes to support larger venues like halls for wedding receptions to keep business going in the off-season.
Mr. Sitt called his new building merely a placeholder, to generate revenue to cover the property's taxes, and said the strip ''needs to look aesthetically nice, even during the interim phase.''
In the meantime, the project is welcoming neighbors. A two-level Applebee's restaurant, with an enormous fish tank, opened this week in a converted space at 1217 Surf Avenue.
The dirt lot at 1223 Surf Avenue, next to the subway station, will soon feature a 15,000-square-foot two-level building featuring several restaurants. Johnny Rockets, the burgers-and-fries chain, will take 6,000 square feet on the ground floor, said Natan Bukai, the building's developer.
Red Mango, the frozen yogurt chain, will occupy 2,000 square feet, also on the ground, he added. Another 2,000-square foot ground-floor berth remains open, but it is being marketed in combination with a 5,000-square-foot second-floor space, which also has a large terrace.
Tenants who have been approached so far include chains like Hooters, as well as Tilted Kilt, whose waitresses wear red tartan miniskirts and matching bras; Bareburger, an organic chain, has also shown interest, said Mr. Vitacco, the commercial agent.
Three years ago, Mr. Bukai bought the parcel from Mr. Bullard for $1.4 million; he's spending another $1 million on it.
''He finally let it go,'' he said, ''and we're glad.''
Mr. Vitacco also pointed to the new signs of development, recalling how he and Mr. Bullard swapped e-mails even in the final months before he died on April 9.
''He would have liked things to move faster, but his vision will become the reality. I only wish that he could see his dream come to fruition,'' Mr. Vitacco said.
''His dream did not vanish,'' he added.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Horace Bullard, far left, on the Coney Island boardwalk in 1985. He owned the Shore Theater, left, among other properties that are now dilapidated or vacant. Top, a Thor Equities building with the candy chain It'Sugar. Below, a lot on Bowery Street. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL NAGLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
DITH PRAN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
Above, the Shore Theater amphitheater. Horace Bullard bought the theater for $125,000 in 1979. It is expected to need at least $15 million in renovations. At left, a new Applebee's on Surf Avenue. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATT LAMBROS/AFTERTHEFINALCURTAIN.NET
 MICHAEL NAGLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (91%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); RESORTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (77%); FRANCHISING (77%); CHILDREN (75%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (72%); BEACHES (71%); FAST FOOD (70%); NURSES & NURSING (69%); RACE & RACISM (68%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (67%); INTERVIEWS (65%); AMYOTROPHIC LATERAL SCLEROSIS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2013



613 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2013

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 376 words

HEADLINE: IHT Quick Read: June 19

BYLINE: THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE


HIGHLIGHT: The Taliban makes peace overtures to the West; demonstrators continue protests in Brazil; uncertainty at the U.S. Fed; using technology to power a green revolution; and rainy weather puts a damper on the Champions Trophy tournament. 

 BODY:
 NEWS The Taliban signaled a breakthrough in efforts to start Afghan peace negotiations on Tuesday, announcing the opening of a political office in Qatar and a new readiness to talk with American and Afghan officials, who said in turn that they would travel to meet insurgent negotiators there within days. Matthew Rosenberg reports from Washington and Alissa Rubin from Kabul. 
President Obama plans to use a speech in Berlin on Wednesday to outline plans for further reductions in the American nuclear arsenal if Russia agrees to pare back its weapons at the same time, administration officials said Tuesday. Peter Baker and David E. Sanger report from Washington.
The number of blasphemy cases, once rare in Egypt, has increased sharply as Islamists assert their new power in public life. Ben Hubbard and Mayy El Sheikh report from Deir El Gabrawi, Egypt.
Shaken by the biggest challenge to their authority in years, Brazil's leaders made conciliatory gestures on Tuesday to try to defuse the protests engulfing the nation's cities. But the demonstrators remained defiant, pouring into the streets by the thousands and venting their anger over political corruption, the high cost of living and huge public spending for the World Cup and the Olympics. Simon Romero reports from São Paulo.
Ben S. Bernanke faces the growing challenge of shaping investor expectations amid increasing signs that his era as Federal Reserve chairman is ending. Binyamin Appelbaum reports from Washington.
British lawmakers are calling for criminal prosecutions of senior bankers who cause the collapse of financial institutions, as Parliament is set to undertake a major overhaul of the country's banking sector. Mark Scott reports from London.
A new generation of entrepreneurs is finding innovative ways of using information technology to make more efficient use of energy and other resources. Beth Gardiner reports from London.
 ARTS Rossini's tragic opera "Maometto Secondo" gets its first British staging, produced by Garsington Opera. George Loomis reviews from High Wycombe, England.
 SPORTS Britain's notoriously fickle weather looms over the playoff stages of the Champions Trophy cricket tournament and threatens an anticlimactic conclusion. Huw Richards reports from London.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PEACE PROCESS (91%); TALIBAN (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); OPERA (85%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); OLYMPICS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); CORRUPTION (72%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (71%); SPORTS AWARDS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); SPORTS & RECREATION (71%); COST OF LIVING (71%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (65%); CRICKET (50%) IHT Rendezvous

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); BEN BERNANKE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (92%); BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (93%); EGYPT (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); GERMANY (92%); QATAR (92%); ENGLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2013



614 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 532 words

HEADLINE: How Are These Times Different?

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: From GM to Apple. 

 BODY:
Ah, Paris! You walk for miles and miles - it's still, after all these years, a spectacularly beautiful city. Then you have as traditional a meal as possible at an old-fashioned bistro, washed down with lots of wine.
And you feel like hell the next morning. Blogging may be a bit limited. 
But I'm still thinking about the conference I was just at, and my own reactions. It was a business-y affair, and like all the economics/business conferences I've attended, it was full of speakers declaring that everything is different, nothing you learned from the past is relevant, and so on. Hey, I understand - people attend such conferences in large part to get shaken out of their routines, and don't want curmudgeons telling them that there's nothing new under the sun.
So I'm kind of an outlier, since when it comes to macro issues I am pretty much a curmudgeon, someone who thinks that the similarities between our time and the 90s in Japan or the 30s everywhere are a lot more important than the differences. But obviously things do change over the decades. And this morning I find myself wondering, how are these times different?
Not, as I've argued, because of globalization. But there is at least one important respect in which the 21st-century economy is different in a way that ought to have a significant effect on macroeconomics: the much larger role of rents on intangible assets. This isn't an original insight, but I haven't been finding systematic analyses of the point.
What do I mean by the role of rents? Consider the changing identity of the most valuable company in America. For a long time, it was GM, then Exxon, then IBM. These were companies with huge visible production activities: GM had more than 400,000 employees, which was amazing when you consider that the overall national work force was much smaller than the one we have today, Exxon had oil refineries. IBM was an information technology company, but it still had many of the attributes of an old-style manufacturing giant, with many factories and a large, well-paid work force.
But now it's Apple, which has hardly any employees and does hardly any manufacturing. The company tries, through fairly desperate PR efforts, to claim that it is indirectly responsible for lots of US jobs, but never mind. The reality is that the company is basically built around technology, design, and a brand identity.
There was an old Dilbert in which the pointy-haired boss explained that the company had discovered that despite its slogan, people weren't its most important asset - money was, and people only came in at #8 or something. Actually, in Apple's case market position is its most important asset.
There are a couple of obvious implications from this change in the nature of corporate success. One is that profits are no longer anything remotely resembling a "natural" aspect of the economy; they're very much an artifact of antitrust policy or the lack thereof, intellectual property policy, etc. Another is that a lot of what we consider output is "produced" at low or zero marginal cost.
So in some respects these times are different. How does this change things for economic policy? I'm thinking, I'm thinking. First, more coffee.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LABOR FORCE (86%); GLOBALIZATION (65%); IMAGE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (63%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (62%); BRANDING (60%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (82%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (82%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (82%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (82%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (77%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2013



615 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 423 words

HEADLINE: Health Spending: Watching for a Rebound

BYLINE: EDUARDO PORTER


HIGHLIGHT: The recent moderation in health care spending is cited as a sign of efficiency and has inspired new hope for deficit reduction. But as the economy improves, medical outlays may surge anew. 

 BODY:
Every new report about the American health care economy seems to confirm the same pattern: spending is rising at the slowest pace in decades.
In 2013, health spending will grow less than 4 percent for the fourth time in five years and shrink as a share of the economy, according to the number crunchers at the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. 
In February, the Congressional Budget Office forecast that spending on Medicare and Medicaid over the coming decade would be $382 billion less than it had predicted last August.
The new numbers have provided an unexpected dose of optimism to the debate about squaring a budget deficit that is expected to widen sharply as the baby-boom generation enters retirement.
But this optimism might be premature, because nobody knows for sure how long the slowdown in medical spending will continue. And there is reason to suspect it may not last long. The pace of health spending could pick up again as soon as the economy recovers. It depends on what is causing the decline: newfound efficiency or simply economic decline.
Economists in the White House argue that it's mostly about efficiency - partly in response to the Affordable Care Act. People who lose their job will spend less on medical care, of course. But the White House economists concluded that the jump in unemployment over the last five years explains less than a fifth of the slowdown in health care spending.
Victor R. Fuchs of Stanford University concludes, however, that the dismal economy might be playing a much larger role. In a recent report published in The New England Journal of Medicine, he points to a tight relationship between health spending and economic growth: over most of the last six decades, health spending per person has grown roughly 2.4 percentage points faster than the economy.
Slower health spending over the last couple of years could prove to be a harbinger for the future. But it is way to early to tell. Mr. Fuchs notes that short-term fluctuations do a terrible job at predicting trends over the longer term: over the last 60 years the correlation between changes in spending over two years and over 20 years has been, in fact, negative.
For all the hope that we've entered a new era of health spending, the odds are good that once the economy starts growing faster, medical spending will surge.

        
The Fork in the Road for Health Care
        
Affordable Care Act Could Be Good for Entrepreneurship
        
Hammurabi's Code and U.S. Health Care
        
The Bad Economy Behind the Health Care Slowdown
        
Housing Trends, Short and Long Term

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE COSTS (91%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); TRENDS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); MEDICARE (76%); MEDICAID (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); BABY BOOMERS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (60%) Fuchs, Victor; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); United States Economy

PERSON: Fuchs, Victor

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2013



616 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2026 words

HEADLINE: Dish Backs Away From Sprint

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Dish Network says it will not submit a new bid for Sprint Nextel. | Federal and state regulators take divergent stances toward the consulting industry. | In acquiring Waze, Google is aggressively pushing regulatory boundaries. | The Jefferies Group reports weak bond trading results. 

 BODY:
Dish Network said on Tuesday that it would not submit a new takeover bid for Sprint Nextel ahead of the 11:59 p.m. deadline and would instead focus on its bid for a stake in Clearwire. That apparently leaves Sprint free to complete the sale of a majority stake to SoftBank of Japan for $21.6 billion, DealBook's Michael J. de la Merced writes.
Dish said in a statement that it still saw merit in a merger with Sprint, but said that conditions imposed by Sprint's revised arrangement with SoftBank made it "impracticable" to put together a fresh bid in time. Those requirements included a shareholder rights plan limiting outside investors other than SoftBank and a demand that any rival bid have fully committed financing. "We will consider our options with respect to Sprint, and focus our efforts and resources on completing the Clearwire tender offer," Dish said in a statement.
Dish now "has a stronger path to victory by pursuing its bid for Clearwire," Mr. de la Merced says. "While Dish cannot buy all of Clearwire - Sprint already owns about 50 percent, and is set to raise that stake to about 65 percent through agreements with other big shareholders - it stands to gain a significant say in the governance of the company. And it will have additional leverage with Sprint." 
REGULATORS DIVIDED OVER CONSULTANTS | Federal and state regulators are united in a concern that consulting firms have produced shoddy work for banks, but they took divergent stances toward the consulting industry on Tuesday. "While federal authorities seemed to reinforce the industry's power, a state agency tried to undercut it," Ben Protess and Jessica Silver-Greenberg write in DealBook. The Federal Reserve ordered a large regional bank to hire a consulting firm to comb through high-risk customer accounts, reinforcing the impression that the consulting industry had become a shadow regulator for Wall Street. At the same time, New York State's top financial regulator, Benjamin M. Lawsky, imposed a $10 million fine and a one-year ban on Deloitte, a prominent consultant that he accused of "misconduct."
"It is unclear whether actions by state regulators like Mr. Lawsky - who has a history of irking his federal counterparts by running ahead of them - portend an overhaul of the consulting industry or a coming clash of state and federal banking regulators," DealBook writes. "Some federal authorities who spoke on the condition of anonymity argued that while they depended on consultants, they were quietly rethinking the reliance on the outside firms. The federal regulators further noted that they could punish banks that failed to improve and could instruct a bank to replace any consulting firm that had erred."
GOOGLE PUSHES REGULATORY BOUNDARIES | In acquiring Waze, a social maps company, Google is aggressively pushing the boundaries of the law, Steven M. Davidoff writes in the Deal Professor column. Typically, buyers of companies are required to supply regulators with a Hart-Scott-Rodino filing, allowing them time to review the transaction for compliance with antitrust laws. "Yet Google's only announcement of the deal appears to say that the companies signed and closed the deal that day, leaving Google the proud owner of Waze. According to a person close to Google, the company skipped the Hart-Scott-Rodino filing by relying on an exemption. This filing is not required if the acquisition is of a foreign company that has sales and assets in the United States of less than $60.9 million. Waze is an Israeli company with headquarters in Silicon Valley, so it comes under this test," Mr. Davidoff writes.
"Google may be playing hardball with the government here. Psychologically, it may be harder for the government to undo something that is done. And once Google acquires this company, it will become harder to force it to undo any integration it may have done with its own services."
ON THE AGENDA | Wall Street will be closely watching an announcement at 2 p.m. on Federal Reserve policy. While the expectation is that the Fed will leave rates unchanged, the statement will be scrutinized for any hint of the central bank's plans to reduce its stimulus. Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed chairman, holds a news conference after the announcement. FedEx reports earnings before the market opens. Jan Hatzius, the chief economist of Goldman Sachs, is on Bloomberg TV at 10 a.m. Jeffrey Gundlach of DoubleLine Capital is on CNBC at 12:30 p.m.
A WORRISOME SIGN FROM JEFFERIES | The Jefferies Group on Tuesday reported unexpectedly weak bond trading results for its second quarter, amid turbulence in the markets. The question now is whether other investment banks have been similarly hurt, DealBook's Peter Eavis writes. "Though Jefferies is not as large as Goldman Sachs or JPMorgan Chase, it is an experienced bond-trading firm that weathered the severe storms that have buffeted markets since the financial crisis of 2008. It was no surprise, then, that Wall Street shuddered a little after Jefferies reported second-quarter fixed-income revenue that was down 27 percent from a year earlier."
 | Contact: @williamalden | E-mail
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions »
Icahn Buys Half of Southeastern's Stake in Dell | Carl C. Icahn and Southeastern remain allied in their bid to defeat the takeover offer by Michael Dell and the investment firm Silver Lake. DealBook »
Dalian Wanda of China to Spend $1.6 Billion on Yacht Maker and London Hotel | The property developer Dalian Wanda said on Wednesday that acquiring the yacht maker Sunseeker International and building a luxury hotel in London would help it branch into new markets outside China. DealBook »
Huawei Would Be Open to Buying Nokia | Richard Yu, chairman of Huawei's consumer business group, told The Financial Times: "We are considering these sorts of acquisitions; maybe the combination has some synergies but depends on the willingness of Nokia. We are open-minded." FINANCIAL TIMES
Royalty Pharma Drops Bid for Elan | The decision to withdraw the takeover offer for the Irish drug company ends a fierce four-month acquisition battle. DealBook »
Duke Energy Taps Financial Officer to Be Next Chief | 
REUTERS
Vodafone the Best Bet to Buy German Cable Giant | Vodafone has stronger finances than Liberty Global, Quentin Webb of Reuters Breakingviews writes. It can wring bigger savings from Kabel Deutschland, and may also irk regulators less. REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS
INVESTMENT BANKING »
High-Frequency Firms Said to Be in Merger Talks | RGM Advisors and Allston Trading, two of the large high-frequency trading firms in the United States, "have discussed a deal that would combine their respective strengths in automated stock trading and futures markets, according to people close to the talks," The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
An Investment Hangover, Real Estate Edition | Bloomberg News writes: "Mortgage real-estate investment trusts raised $7.4 billion in the first quarter by selling new shares, the most in two years, just before a plunge in the value of the firms." BLOOMBERG NEWS
A Trader's Guide to Manipulating Oil Prices | One oil trader, Halis Bektas, described to The Wall Street Journal one strategy he has used to manipulate prices. WALL STREET JOURNAL
How High Will Gold Go? Try 'Infinity' | Former Congressman Ron Paul, an outspoken believer in gold, predicted on CNBC that "the dollar will collapse totally" and gold prices "will go to infinity." CNBC
Glencore Xstrata Secures a Big Loan at Low Rates | The commodities firm Glencore Xstrata "signed $17.3 billion of revolving credit facilities last week, paying a margin of 90 basis points more than benchmark rates for a three-year portion," Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
PRIVATE EQUITY »
BC Partners to Buy Academic Publisher for $4.4 Billion | The European private equity firm has agreed to buy the academic publishing company Springer Science & Business Media from EQT Partners and the Government of Singapore Investment Corporation. DealBook »
Google Looking to Team Up With Private Equity | Google is "for the first time considering forging alliances with private-equity firms to help it structure deals," Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Terra Firma Real Estate Unit to Raise $1.5 Billion in I.P.O. | Terra Firma, the private equity firm run by Guy Hands, plans to raise as much as $1.5 billion through the initial public offering of the German real estate company Deutsche Annington. DEALBOOK
SunGard Said to Explore Sale of Unit | SunGard Data Systems, which is owned by a group of private equity firms, "is exploring a sale of its data managing operations that could fetch up to $2 billion, several people familiar with the matter said on Tuesday," Reuters reports. REUTERS
HEDGE FUNDS »
A Sign of Maturation in Hedge Fund Industry | According to a Barclays report, the hedge fund industry is growing at a slower pace, with fewer funds being started, MarketWatch reports. MARKETWATCH
Hedge Funds Show a Softer Side | At an industry conference in Monaco, hedge fund managers "latched onto the idea that social responsibility and making money could go hand in hand," Reuters writes. REUTERS
I.P.O./OFFERINGS »
Brazil Cement Giant Is Said to Cancel Planned I.P.O. | Brazil's largest cement producer, Votorantim Cimentos, was expected to raise as much as $4.7 billion in what would have been one of the largest I.P.O.'s globally in 2013. DealBook »
Online Game Maker Said to Hire Banks for I.P.O. | Midasplayer International Holding, which makes the Candy Crush Saga game, has tapped banks to handle a potential I.P.O., The Wall Street Journal reports, citing unidentified people familiar with the matter. WALL STREET JOURNAL
VENTURE CAPITAL »
Instagram Said to Be Unveiling a Video Product | AllThingsD reports: "Instagram plans to release a video product this Thursday at a press event at Facebook's headquarters, according to multiple sources familiar with the matter." ALLTHINGSD
Fab Design Site Said to Achieve $1 Billion Valuation | 
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Amazon Builds Grocery Business From Webvan's Ashes | 
REUTERS
LEGAL/REGULATORY »
British Commission Calls for New Laws to Prosecute Bankers for Fraud | As part of a 600-page report, the British parliamentary commission on banking standards is urging new laws that would make it a criminal offense to recklessly mismanage local financial institutions. DealBook »
Chiasson and Newman to Remain Free During Appeal, Court Rules | A federal appeals court ruled that Anthony Chiasson, co-founder of Level Global Investors, and Todd Newman, a former portfolio manager at Diamondback Capital Management, will not have to report to prison while they fight their convictions. DealBook »
A Cleaned-Up Signature for Treasury Secretary Lew | 
TWITTER
Uncertainty Over the Fed's Plans | The New York Times writes: "The Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, faces the increasingly difficult challenge of shaping investor expectations about the future course of Fed policy amid growing signs that the Bernanke era at the central bank is drawing to a close." NEW YORK TIMES
Tribune Faces Potentially Big Tax Bill for Newsday and Cubs Deals | The Tribune Company faces a potential tax bill of more than $500 million over the sales of the Chicago Cubs and Newsday despite efforts to minimize the tax consequences of both deals, the company disclosed on Monday. DealBook »
How the I.R.S. Encourages Oil and Gas Spinoffs | A tax loophole has in effect become a subsidy for fossil fuel production, Victor Fleischer writes in the Standard Deduction column. DealBook »
Why More Inflation Might Help | "A heretical thought that first surfaced as the economic crisis gripped the world five years ago is again gaining traction among experts: economic policy should be aiming for significantly higher inflation than the 1 to 2 percent annual rate that the United States economy is currently experiencing," Eduardo Porter writes in the Economic Scene column in The New York Times. NEW YORK TIMES
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SECURITIES TRADING (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (88%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); BONDS (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (86%); MERGERS (78%); TENDER OFFERS (78%); SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (75%); STOCK PURCHASE RIGHTS (69%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (68%); MISCONDUCT (64%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (61%) Morning Agenda

COMPANY: SPRINT NEXTEL CORP (94%); GOOGLE INC (80%); DISH NETWORK CORP (59%); DELOITTE LLP (54%)

TICKER: S (NYSE) (94%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (80%); DISH (NASDAQ) (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (94%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (80%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (59%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (59%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (54%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2013



617 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2026 words

HEADLINE: Dish Backs Away From Sprint

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Dish Network says it will not submit a new bid for Sprint Nextel. | Federal and state regulators take divergent stances on the consulting industry. | In acquiring Waze, Google is aggressively pushing regulatory boundaries. | The Jefferies Group reports weak bond trading results. 

 BODY:
Dish Network said on Tuesday that it would not submit a new takeover bid for Sprint Nextel ahead of the 11:59 p.m. deadline and would instead focus on its bid for a stake in Clearwire. That apparently leaves Sprint free to complete the sale of a majority stake to SoftBank of Japan for $21.6 billion, DealBook's Michael J. de la Merced writes.
Dish said in a statement that it still saw merit in a merger with Sprint, but said that conditions imposed by Sprint's revised arrangement with SoftBank made it "impracticable" to put together a fresh bid in time. Those requirements included a shareholder rights plan limiting outside investors other than SoftBank and a demand that any rival bid have fully committed financing. "We will consider our options with respect to Sprint, and focus our efforts and resources on completing the Clearwire tender offer," Dish said in a statement.
Dish now "has a stronger path to victory by pursuing its bid for Clearwire," Mr. de la Merced says. "While Dish cannot buy all of Clearwire - Sprint already owns about 50 percent, and is set to raise that stake to about 65 percent through agreements with other big shareholders - it stands to gain a significant say in the governance of the company. And it will have additional leverage with Sprint." 
REGULATORS DIVIDED OVER CONSULTANTS | Federal and state regulators are united in a concern that consulting firms have produced shoddy work for banks, but they took divergent stances toward the consulting industry on Tuesday. "While federal authorities seemed to reinforce the industry's power, a state agency tried to undercut it," Ben Protess and Jessica Silver-Greenberg write in DealBook. The Federal Reserve ordered a large regional bank to hire a consulting firm to comb through high-risk customer accounts, reinforcing the impression that the consulting industry had become a shadow regulator for Wall Street. At the same time, New York State's top financial regulator, Benjamin M. Lawsky, imposed a $10 million fine and a one-year ban on Deloitte, a prominent consultant that he accused of "misconduct."
"It is unclear whether actions by state regulators like Mr. Lawsky - who has a history of irking his federal counterparts by running ahead of them - portend an overhaul of the consulting industry or a coming clash of state and federal banking regulators," DealBook writes. "Some federal authorities who spoke on the condition of anonymity argued that while they depended on consultants, they were quietly rethinking the reliance on the outside firms. The federal regulators further noted that they could punish banks that failed to improve and could instruct a bank to replace any consulting firm that had erred."
GOOGLE PUSHES REGULATORY BOUNDARIES | In acquiring Waze, a social maps company, Google is aggressively pushing the boundaries of the law, Steven M. Davidoff writes in the Deal Professor column. Typically, buyers of companies are required to supply regulators with a Hart-Scott-Rodino filing, allowing them time to review the transaction for compliance with antitrust laws. "Yet Google's only announcement of the deal appears to say that the companies signed and closed the deal that day, leaving Google the proud owner of Waze. According to a person close to Google, the company skipped the Hart-Scott-Rodino filing by relying on an exemption. This filing is not required if the acquisition is of a foreign company that has sales and assets in the United States of less than $60.9 million. Waze is an Israeli company with headquarters in Silicon Valley, so it comes under this test," Mr. Davidoff writes.
"Google may be playing hardball with the government here. Psychologically, it may be harder for the government to undo something that is done. And once Google acquires this company, it will become harder to force it to undo any integration it may have done with its own services."
ON THE AGENDA | Wall Street will be closely watching an announcement at 2 p.m. on Federal Reserve policy. While the expectation is that the Fed will leave rates unchanged, the statement will be scrutinized for any hint of the central bank's plans to reduce its stimulus. Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed chairman, holds a news conference after the announcement. FedEx reports earnings before the market opens. Jan Hatzius, the chief economist of Goldman Sachs, is on Bloomberg TV at 10 a.m. Jeffrey Gundlach of DoubleLine Capital is on CNBC at 12:30 p.m.
A WORRISOME SIGN FROM JEFFERIES | The Jefferies Group on Tuesday reported unexpectedly weak bond trading results for its second quarter, amid turbulence in the markets. The question now is whether other investment banks have been similarly hurt, DealBook's Peter Eavis writes. "Though Jefferies is not as large as Goldman Sachs or JPMorgan Chase, it is an experienced bond-trading firm that weathered the severe storms that have buffeted markets since the financial crisis of 2008. It was no surprise, then, that Wall Street shuddered a little after Jefferies reported second-quarter fixed-income revenue that was down 27 percent from a year earlier."
 | Contact: @williamalden | E-mail
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions »
Icahn Buys Half of Southeastern's Stake in Dell | Carl C. Icahn and Southeastern remain allied in their bid to defeat the takeover offer by Michael Dell and the investment firm Silver Lake. DealBook »
Dalian Wanda of China to Spend $1.6 Billion on Yacht Maker and London Hotel | The property developer Dalian Wanda said on Wednesday that acquiring the yacht maker Sunseeker International and building a luxury hotel in London would help it branch into new markets outside China. DealBook »
Huawei Would Be Open to Buying Nokia | Richard Yu, chairman of Huawei's consumer business group, told The Financial Times: "We are considering these sorts of acquisitions; maybe the combination has some synergies but depends on the willingness of Nokia. We are open-minded." FINANCIAL TIMES
Royalty Pharma Drops Bid for Elan | The decision to withdraw the takeover offer for the Irish drug company ends a fierce four-month acquisition battle. DealBook »
Duke Energy Taps Financial Officer to Be Next Chief | 
REUTERS
Vodafone the Best Bet to Buy German Cable Giant | Vodafone has stronger finances than Liberty Global, Quentin Webb of Reuters Breakingviews writes. It can wring bigger savings from Kabel Deutschland, and may also irk regulators less. REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS
INVESTMENT BANKING »
High-Frequency Firms Said to Be in Merger Talks | RGM Advisors and Allston Trading, two of the large high-frequency trading firms in the United States, "have discussed a deal that would combine their respective strengths in automated stock trading and futures markets, according to people close to the talks," The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
An Investment Hangover, Real Estate Edition | Bloomberg News writes: "Mortgage real-estate investment trusts raised $7.4 billion in the first quarter by selling new shares, the most in two years, just before a plunge in the value of the firms." BLOOMBERG NEWS
A Trader's Guide to Manipulating Oil Prices | One oil trader, Halis Bektas, described to The Wall Street Journal one strategy he has used to manipulate prices. WALL STREET JOURNAL
How High Will Gold Go? Try 'Infinity' | Former Congressman Ron Paul, an outspoken believer in gold, predicted on CNBC that "the dollar will collapse totally" and gold prices "will go to infinity." CNBC
Glencore Xstrata Secures a Big Loan at Low Rates | The commodities firm Glencore Xstrata "signed $17.3 billion of revolving credit facilities last week, paying a margin of 90 basis points more than benchmark rates for a three-year portion," Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
PRIVATE EQUITY »
BC Partners to Buy Academic Publisher for $4.4 Billion | The European private equity firm has agreed to buy the academic publishing company Springer Science & Business Media from EQT Partners and the Government of Singapore Investment Corporation. DealBook »
Google Looking to Team Up With Private Equity | Google is "for the first time considering forging alliances with private-equity firms to help it structure deals," Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Terra Firma Real Estate Unit to Raise $1.5 Billion in I.P.O. | Terra Firma, the private equity firm run by Guy Hands, plans to raise as much as $1.5 billion through the initial public offering of the German real estate company Deutsche Annington. DEALBOOK
SunGard Said to Explore Sale of Unit | SunGard Data Systems, which is owned by a group of private equity firms, "is exploring a sale of its data managing operations that could fetch up to $2 billion, several people familiar with the matter said on Tuesday," Reuters reports. REUTERS
HEDGE FUNDS »
A Sign of Maturation in Hedge Fund Industry | According to a Barclays report, the hedge fund industry is growing at a slower pace, with fewer funds being started, MarketWatch reports. MARKETWATCH
Hedge Funds Show a Softer Side | At an industry conference in Monaco, hedge fund managers "latched onto the idea that social responsibility and making money could go hand in hand," Reuters writes. REUTERS
I.P.O./OFFERINGS »
Brazil Cement Giant Is Said to Cancel Planned I.P.O. | Brazil's largest cement producer, Votorantim Cimentos, was expected to raise as much as $4.7 billion in what would have been one of the largest I.P.O.'s globally in 2013. DealBook »
Online Game Maker Said to Hire Banks for I.P.O. | Midasplayer International Holding, which makes the Candy Crush Saga game, has tapped banks to handle a potential I.P.O., The Wall Street Journal reports, citing unidentified people familiar with the matter. WALL STREET JOURNAL
VENTURE CAPITAL »
Instagram Said to Be Unveiling a Video Product | AllThingsD reports: "Instagram plans to release a video product this Thursday at a press event at Facebook's headquarters, according to multiple sources familiar with the matter." ALLTHINGSD
Fab Design Site Said to Achieve $1 Billion Valuation | 
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Amazon Builds Grocery Business From Webvan's Ashes | 
REUTERS
LEGAL/REGULATORY »
British Commission Calls for New Laws to Prosecute Bankers for Fraud | As part of a 600-page report, the British parliamentary commission on banking standards is urging new laws that would make it a criminal offense to recklessly mismanage local financial institutions. DealBook »
Chiasson and Newman to Remain Free During Appeal, Court Rules | A federal appeals court ruled that Anthony Chiasson, co-founder of Level Global Investors, and Todd Newman, a former portfolio manager at Diamondback Capital Management, will not have to report to prison while they fight their convictions. DealBook »
A Cleaned-Up Signature for Treasury Secretary Lew | 
TWITTER
Uncertainty Over the Fed's Plans | The New York Times writes: "The Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, faces the increasingly difficult challenge of shaping investor expectations about the future course of Fed policy amid growing signs that the Bernanke era at the central bank is drawing to a close." NEW YORK TIMES
Tribune Faces Potentially Big Tax Bill for Newsday and Cubs Deals | The Tribune Company faces a potential tax bill of more than $500 million over the sales of the Chicago Cubs and Newsday despite efforts to minimize the tax consequences of both deals, the company disclosed on Monday. DealBook »
How the I.R.S. Encourages Oil and Gas Spinoffs | A tax loophole has in effect become a subsidy for fossil fuel production, Victor Fleischer writes in the Standard Deduction column. DealBook »
Why More Inflation Might Help | "A heretical thought that first surfaced as the economic crisis gripped the world five years ago is again gaining traction among experts: economic policy should be aiming for significantly higher inflation than the 1 to 2 percent annual rate that the United States economy is currently experiencing," Eduardo Porter writes in the Economic Scene column in The New York Times. NEW YORK TIMES
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SECURITIES TRADING (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (88%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); BONDS (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (86%); MERGERS (78%); TENDER OFFERS (78%); SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (75%); STOCK PURCHASE RIGHTS (69%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (68%); MISCONDUCT (64%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (61%) Morning Agenda

COMPANY: SPRINT NEXTEL CORP (94%); GOOGLE INC (80%); DISH NETWORK CORP (59%); DELOITTE LLP (54%)

TICKER: S (NYSE) (94%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (80%); DISH (NASDAQ) (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (94%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (80%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (59%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (59%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (54%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2013



618 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2013

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 159 words

HEADLINE: Wednesday Reading: The Benefits of a Four-Minute Workout

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS


HIGHLIGHT: The benefits of a four-minute workout, gardening suggestions for aging bodies, advice on visiting Turkey these days and other consumer-focused news from The New York Times. 

 BODY:

        
Washington adopts rules for food trucks. (National)
        
Plastic bagson the way out in Los Angeles. (National)
        
I.M.F. courses offered online. (National)
        
A.M.A. recognizes obesity as a disease. (Business)
        
Chrysler agrees to fix older Jeeps. (Business)
        
Google asks to publish data on national security requests. (Bits)
        
A health maven's sweet secret. (Dining)
        
California wines score style points. (Dining)
        
A Johnny Cash museum opens in Nashville. (In Transit)
        
Advice on visiting Turkey these days. (In Transit)
        
Gardening suggestions for aging bodies, Part 1. (Booming)
        
Not too old for a debut novel. (Booming)
        
Home health aides still waitingfor minimum wage. (The New Old Age)
        
Trying to find time for home-cooked meals. (Motherlode)
        
The four-minuteworkout. (Well)
        
Zapping bugswith the wave of a racket. (Gadgetwise)
        
Driving nearly 3 million miles in a 1966 Volvo. (Wheels)
        
Watching for a health spending rebound. (Economix)
        
Jacob Lew's dollar-bill signature, squiggle-free. (Economix)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: OBESITY (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (71%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (71%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); MINIMUM WAGE (53%) Today in Your Money

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (57%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (88%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2013



619 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2013

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 650 words

HEADLINE: And the Weatherman Says There's More to Come

BYLINE: HARVEY MORRIS


HIGHLIGHT: Europe has been enduring another year of unseasonable weather, and climate scientists warn that the pattern of extended winters and wet summers could last for years. Is it a natural phenomenon or does man-made climate change play a part? 

 BODY:
LONDON - If you're planning a summer break in Europe anytime in the next 10 years, bring an umbrella.
Scientists studying unusual weather patterns in recent years have concluded that the pattern of cold springs and wet summers could persist for a decade or longer.
The warning came after parts of Europe shivered through one of the coldest springs on record and floods swept across Central Europe, prompting a state of emergency to be declared in the Czech Republic. 
Further south in the French Pyrenees, the ski resort of Porte-Puymorens reopened this month to take advantage of late snow and winter temperatures on the pistes.
In weather-obsessed Britain, the freak weather patterns were raised at a summit of climate scientists convened on Tuesday to discuss the recent run of unusual seasons in Europe in a cycle that began in 2007.
Stephen Belcher of the Met Office, Britain's official weather watchdog, said: "Ultimately what we've seen in each of these seasons is shifts in the position of the jet stream which impact our weather in certain ways at different times of year."
The jet stream that flows eastward up to 10 miles, or about 16 kilometers, above the North Atlantic Ocean at as much as 200 miles per hour normally brings warm summer air to Europe. It is also the reason why flights from the United States are quicker than outbound ones.
In recent years, however, the path of the jet stream has shifted southward, trapping cold air over much of Europe.
But is it a natural phenomenon or yet another perverse consequence of global warming? The scientists hedged their bets.
"There is some research to say some parts of the natural system load the dice to influence certain states of the jet stream," according to Professor Belcher, "but this loading may be further amplified by climate change."
The current weather phenomenon is not unique. Europe underwent the effects of so-called Atlantic multidecadal oscillations in the 1950s and early 1960s and in the 1880s.
The decline of Arctic sea ice, which some scientists blame in part on man-made climate change, is one of the factors cited as responsible for the recent unusual weather patterns.
The Met Office, Britain's national weather service, has been the target of climate change skeptics who have showed a tendency to shoot the messenger when the weather fails to behave as predicted.
John Hirst, the head of the Met Office, once revealed that he had received death threats over his department's stance on man-made climate change. That was after the Met Office was criticized for failing to predict a wet summer in 2009 and a snowy winter in 2010.
The scientists who met on Tuesday were cautious about their long-term forecast. While factors affecting the current weather cycle raised the odds of wet summers for a few more years to come, "It doesn't rule out the possibility of decent summers over the next few years," according to the Met Office.
That said, this summer already looks like a washout. And it is not only troubling potential vacationers.
Early summer fruits are maturing late, grain harvests are likely to be well down, and beekeepers are complaining that a third of hives failed to survive the winter.
In Germany, disappointing job figures in May were blamed in part on the bad spring weather.
In the distant past it was far worse. Joshua Keating of Foreign Policy this week pointed to some fascinating research suggesting that bad weather in Europe played a role in the expulsion of Jewish communities during the Middle Ages.
A paper published by George Mason University in Virginia found that lower temperatures leading to poor harvests in the 15th and 16th centuries were associated with a higher likelihood that a Jewish community would be expelled.

        
Spring Delayed, Europe Shivers
        
Beware, We're Having a Heat Wave
        
The Beauty Market Resists Recession
        
Self-Interest Leads to Collapse of BAE-EADS Merger
        
Should Governments Cash In on Smokers?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WEATHER (92%); CLIMATOLOGY (92%); CLIMATE CHANGE (92%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); SKIING (75%); MOUNTAINS (75%); SKIING FACILITIES (70%) climate change; europe; Global Warming; weather; Floods; Weather; Atlantic Ocean; Czech Republic; Europe; France; Great Britain; Featured; View From Europe

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (74%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (93%); ARCTIC OCEAN (79%); PYRENEES (79%) EUROPE (97%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); CZECH REPUBLIC (90%); ARCTIC (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Atlantic Ocean; Czech Republic; Europe; France; Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2013



620 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Motherlode)

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2013

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 709 words

HEADLINE: The Privilege of the Unpaid Intern

BYLINE: RANDYE HODER


HIGHLIGHT: An unpaid internship is a luxury few can afford. 

 BODY:
Like 30 percent of undergraduates in the United States, my daughter, Emma, has an unpaid internship this summer. She is one of the lucky ones. She is following her passion: her internship at a food Web site is in her field of study; the work she's doing there is providing her, at age 20, with valuable skills, experience and connections.
But the idea of an unpaid internship is a misnomer - mostly because someone is, in some sense, paying. In this case, it's my husband and me (with a helping hand from various friends and relatives). 
Emma's internship is in New York City, across the country from our Los Angeles home. We can afford it, in large part, because she has a friend whose family generously offered her a place to stay this summer. Otherwise, she might have had to pass on this great opportunity. (Her friend, by the way, is a fellow undergrad with an unpaid internship at a Condé Nast magazine.)
There are, of course, other expenses: round-trip airfare, housing incidentals, food and a MetroCard, to name just a few. With no salary, Emma herself can't afford any of those things - more expenses for the parents who are footing the bill. These are costs that only those with relatively high incomes can afford. Meanwhile, those who are from less well-to-do households are getting left behind.
The long-term impact can be significant. Although students with paid internships have the best postgraduate opportunities, research shows those with unpaid internships fare better than those without them. In a recent survey from American Public Media's "Marketplace" and the Chronicle of Higher Education, employers cited experiences gained from internships as among the top reasons for hiring a grad - more important than a student's major, university or grade point average. Indeed, 79 percent of employers surveyed said that unpaid internships have a positive impact when they evaluate graduates for hire.
The pros and cons of unpaid internships - which account for about half of all college internships - have been much discussed of late. Last week, a Federal District Court judge in Manhattan ruled that Fox Searchlight Pictures had violated federal and New York minimum wage laws by not paying two production interns. Among the key issues that the court considered was whether the studio had provided a sufficient educational environment to the interns and whether the experience had benefited them, not the employer.
But this kind of case, while it grabs headlines, ignores a stark reality: Only those rich enough can take a job with no paycheck in the first place.
The conversation shouldn't just be about "the interns who work for free," says Christie Thompson of ProPublica, a nonprofit news organization, which last monthopened an investigation into what it calls the "booming intern economy." Also affected are "the thousands of people shut out of journalism, politics, the arts and other fields because they can't afford to take unpaid internships on their climb to a career."
Commenting recently in The Guardian, the writer David Dennis went so far as to assert that unpaid internships were "ruining journalism" by squeezing out the voices of those with "mid- to lower-class backgrounds." Publications that use unpaid interns, he says, are "perpetuating a privilege-based upward mobility."
If all employers, whether businesses, nonprofits or government agencies, were required to pay every intern at least minimum wage, more students would have access to more internships. "Paying interns the minimum wage is the right and moral thing to do," says Robert Shindell, vice president and chief learning officer at Intern Bridge, a research firm. "It levels the playing field and allows us to focus on the more important question: Are we as a society effectively transitioning our students from college to the world of work?"
Landing an internship is an important stepping stone for a young person. Those jobs should be going to those students who prove themselves the most capable - regardless of whether their parents have fat wallets.

        
Why Do I Think My Salary Pays for Child Care?
        
How Children Subsidize 'Low, Low Prices'
        
The Camp Counselor vs. the Intern
        
Home-Cooked Challenge: What's for Breakfast?
        
Will Parents Still Turn Down an 'Anti-Cancer Vaccine?'

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (96%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (89%); MINIMUM WAGE (87%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (75%); GRADES & GRADING (73%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (71%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); PARENTING (70%); MINIMUM WAGE LAWS (70%); WAGE VIOLATIONS (68%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (63%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); JUDGES (60%); AIR FARES (52%) Internships; Minimum Wage; Parenting; Wages and Salaries

COMPANY: CHRONICLE OF HIGHER EDUCATION (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2013



621 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 286 words

HEADLINE: Wesley Clark, Retired General, Joins Blackstone as an Adviser

BYLINE: MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED


HIGHLIGHT: Wesley K. Clark, the retired Army general and onetime supreme allied commander in Europe for NATO, has joined the Blackstone Group as a deal adviser in the energy sector. 

 BODY:
Wesley K. Clark, a retired Army general and onetime supreme allied commander in Europe for NATO, has joined the Blackstone Group as a deal adviser in the energy sector. 
General Clark will also serve as a director of Fisterra Energy, a company formed by Blackstone and a management team led by Pedro Barriuso, a former executive chairman of Element Power. Fisterra focuses on developing and running power projects in Latin America, Europe and the Middle East.
 Lars Thunell, a former head of the World Bank's financing arm, will also join Blackstone as an adviser and Fisterra as a director.
General Clark is the second former Army general to join a private equity firm in as many months. Last month, David H. Petraeus, a retired four-star general and former director of the Central Intelligence Agency, was hired by Kohlberg Kravis Roberts to lead its KKR Global Institute.
Since retiring from the Army and briefly running for the Democratic presidential nomination in 2004, General Clark has turned to business matters. He founded a consulting firm, Wesley K. Clark & Associates, that advises clients in a number of areas, including energy.
He is also a co-chairman of Growth Energy, a group representing the American ethanol industry, and a director of BNK Petroleum, an independent oil exploration company.
"Helping countries overcome their energy challenges and develop energy security is critical to economic growth and sustainable development," General Clark said in a statement. "I am pleased to join Fisterra's board of directors and look forward to supporting the team as they work to accomplish their goals."

        
Blackstone Leads Latest Chinese Privatization Bid
        
Credit Suisse Sells Private Equity Business to Blackstone

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ARMIES (92%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); PRIVATE EQUITY (89%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (76%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (70%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (68%); OIL EXPLORATION (65%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (65%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (53%); ETHANOL (51%); ALCOHOLS (51%) Clark, Wesley K; Private Equity; The Blackstone Group; The Blackstone Group|BX|NYSE; Energy; Revolving Door

COMPANY: BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (91%); KKR & CO LP (85%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (56%); BNK PETROLEUM INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: The Blackstone Group

TICKER: BX (NYSE) (91%); KKR (NYSE) (85%); CSGN (SWX) (56%); CS (NYSE) (56%); BKX (TSX) (53%) The Blackstone Group; BX; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (85%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (85%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (53%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (53%)

PERSON: DAVID PETRAEUS (58%) Clark, Wesley K

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); LATIN AMERICA (87%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2013



622 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1965 words

HEADLINE: 'Slaves of the Marriage Union'

BYLINE: KATHRYN BURNS-HOWARD


HIGHLIGHT: How did the women&#8217;s rights movement fare during the Civil War? 

 BODY:
On June 18, 1863, a woman named Elizabeth Packard rode out of a state insane asylum in Jacksonville, Ill., perched on the interwoven arms of two men. Three years earlier, she had been confined under a state law that allowed husbands and fathers to commit their wives or children to the asylum, with little legal process. All they needed was the permission of the asylum superintendent.
Her husband, the minister Theophilus Packard, may have believed that his wife was insane, but the evidence was inconsistent. Her personality had evidently changed, and she became abnormally talkative and irritable. She wished to withdraw from his Presbyterian congregation and allegedly failed in her wifely duties: according to her sister-in-law's testimony, Mrs. Packard once failed to bake bread in the morning and instead served "biscuit" to dinner guests. On another occasion, she set a teacup down sharply and stalked out of the room when annoyed by her husband. We will never know Elizabeth Packard's true mental state or the details of her family life. Nevertheless, soon after being discharged, she convinced a jury of her sanity. 
Packard did not retreat into her former life; instead, she took up the cause of asylum reform, and became something of a national celebrity - a striking achievement when the country's attention was focused on the Civil War. She published an armload of books and crisscrossed the United States on a decades-long reform campaign. She fought for married women's rights and for freedom of speech, and militated against the power of insane asylums. In an era when common social ideals dictated that middle-class white women spend their lives in private, Packard reinvented herself as a public figure. She earned enough to support her children and, eventually, even her estranged husband.
In fact, the timing of Packard's campaign, seemingly inauspicious, couldn't have been better. The war had created a temporary vacuum in women's rights activism. Women who had learned to organize politically as part of the abolitionist cause were rolling bandages and organizing medical support. They voluntarily put aside self-interest in order to support the Union cause, proving their worth by actions instead of words. But the delay was frustrating. Some feared the women's movement was stagnant, or forgotten. As a result, the former asylum patient Elizabeth Packard became a focal point for conversations about "woman's rights" and woman's wrongs. (The 19th-century singular term "woman's rights," as opposed to the modern phrase "women's rights," reflected an undifferentiated concept of white middle-class womanhood.) Moderate devotees of the Northern women's rights faction embraced her.
Packard was savvy enough to weave her story into the other great issue confronting the nation, framing her experience as a kind of enslavement. She called herself one of many "slaves of the marriage union." In her mind, this was more than a convenient turn of phrase. Packard believed that her physical captivity, both in the asylum and at home, was a kind of marital slavery. Others agreed; her vivid story of oppression set up postwar debates over prioritizing African-American rights versus women's rights.
Slavery had for some time been a favorite metaphor of anti-asylum campaigners, women's rights advocates and critics of the industrial labor system. The connections seemed natural to them. From the 1830s to the 1850s, at the height of the abolitionist movement in the United States, white female reformers began to recognize that they still lacked many of the rights they demanded for slaves. These activists linked their cause to abolitionists' fundamental belief in equality. "In striving to strike [the slave's] irons off," the Quaker activist Abby Kelley wrote, "we found most surely that we were manacled ourselves."
Kelley was not alone. In fact, even before the Civil War, the training - and the frustrations - of working for abolition sparked the formation of a distinct women's rights movement. Tradition and prejudice meant the majority of male abolitionists did not accept women as leaders. By 1848, activist women's sense of exclusion inspired them to meet at Seneca Falls, N. Y., where they drafted a "Declaration of Sentiments" asserting that not only men, but also women, were "created equal." The document described the rights married women lacked: they lost the right to control their property, they could not sue or be sued, husbands could reinforce their control with physical punishment. Their list went on.
Presaging Packard's campaign, the pre-eminent female abolitionist and women's rights organizer Elizabeth Cady Stanton argued that married women existed in a slave-like state, or worse. In 1854, Stanton complained to the New York Legislature that even though white women were "moral, virtuous and intelligent," even "equal to the proud white man himself," they were deprived of political rights just like "idiots, lunatics and negroes." These terms were standard language in the 19th century, even in medical texts. But the statement shows that like most Northern whites and many other abolitionists (including Abraham Lincoln), Stanton struggled to reconcile principles of equality, hierarchy, self-interest and residual racial prejudice.
Both marriage and slavery were relationships of domination, but Stanton must have been aware that they were in no way equivalent. As one example, when a white woman was beaten to death by her husband, police and prosecutors generally labeled it an act of murder. Yet even though the premeditated killing of a slave was a crime, it was rarely investigated or punished. Despite such stark differences, women's rights advocates repeatedly compared slaves and married women - highlighting basic truths, but exaggerating reality for shocking effect.
Prominent Southerners, too, saw parallels in the situations of slaves and women. The difference was that they believed, or claimed, that the subjugation of women and slaves was right and righteous.
In a defense of slavery written less than a decade before the Civil War, the South Carolina intellectual Louisa McCord wrote fervently against the rising democratic sentiment of the age: "The man and woman are not equal ... The white and the negro are not equal; ... the philosopher and the idiot are not equal; the sage and the madman are not equal ... Some must rule and some must submit." McCord believed that hierarchy and domination were essential to the functioning of society. She apparently felt that her own privileged position made it worth living under a state of "bondage."
The Southern slaveholder George Fitzhugh phrased it somewhat differently, but the general principle remained the same. Fitzhugh is most famous as the man who suggested white Northern wageworkers would be better off as slaves. More broadly, however, he enthusiastically endorsed a social system in which wealthy and powerful white men dominated all of "the weak," including "wives, apprentices, inmates of poor houses, idiots, lunatics, children, sailors, soldiers, and domestic slaves." In short, both slaveholders and abolitionists saw similarities among married women, the insane and slaves.
Elizabeth Packard revisited these parallels when she tackled the inadequate lunacy law of Illinois. She borrowed the language of antislavery when she argued that her husband had attempted to "chain" her thoughts by holding her captive in a mental institution. In the midst of Civil War, Packard stated that a nation in the midst of freeing one sort of slave should do the same for others. If an evidently respectable and rational woman like Packard could be condemned as insane and shut away for years, it followed that any American woman might suffer dreadful wrongs under prevailing statutes.
In a nation at war, other women's rights reformers risked seeming selfish when they compared themselves to slaves. Because of her particular suffering, however, Packard was at liberty to do so. She offered concrete proof that the law authorized a man to "kidnap" his wife, take away her children, and deprive her of personal liberty.
Packard operated independently, and she was too traditional to believe that women should have the right to vote. However, she played a key role in the passage of an Illinois law that for the first time gave married women separate legal ownership of their wages. Her greater significance to the nation was the spectacle of her suffering, which raised public awareness regarding women's unequal treatment in law.
Still, she was hardly a hero for the ages. Packard seemed oblivious to the racial prejudice she revealed when she said that white women had a more developed "moral and spiritual nature," were more attached to their children, and suffered greater "spiritual agony" than slaves. Indeed, after the war Packard and other racially chauvinist women's rights activists became one side of a boiling controversy over the fight to secure the vote for newly free African-Americans.
During the war itself, both male and female activists had put the cause of women's rights on hold to fight the greater crime of slavery. After the war, however, divisions among reformers grew. The 13th and 14th Amendments had outlawed slavery, established birthright citizenship and promised equal protection of the law. But it was the heavily contested 15th Amendment that ruptured the awkward alliance between abolitionism and women's rights.
The proposed amendment would make it illegal to deny voting rights due to "race, color or previous condition of servitude," and many women demanded that "sex" be added to this list. The majority of male and female reformers pragmatically threw their full support behind the 15th Amendment; like the prominent abolitionist and former slave Frederick Douglass - an avowed "woman's rights man" - they believed that ensuring African-American men's right to vote must be the first priority.
But the suffragist leaders Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Susan B. Anthony dissented, feeling betrayed by the antislavery cause they had supported for decades. They believed it was women's turn. In that moment, Elizabeth Packard's story of marital enslavement and captivity in the Illinois state insane asylum provided a stirring example of oppressed womanhood. The struggle for women's rights gained momentum, and many white female reformers were fighting for themselves alone. And yet the two long-allied rights movements were weakened by the split.
 Follow Disunion at twitter.com/NYTcivilwar or join us on Facebook. 
 Sources: "Declaration of Sentiments"; "Proceedings of the American Equal Rights Association Convention"; Linda Carlisle, "Elizabeth Packard: A Noble Fight"; Frederick Douglass, "Why I Became a Woman's Rights Man"; George Fitzhugh, "Southern Thought Again"; Abby Kelley, "An Anti-Slavery Album..., 1834-1858"; Louisa McCord, "Charity Which Does Not Begin at Home" and "Slavery and Political Economy"; E.P.W. Packard, "Exposure on Board the Atlantic & Pacific Car of Emancipation for the Slaves of Old Columbia...Or, Christianity & Calvinism Compared, with an Appeal to the Government to Emancipate the Slaves of the Marriage Union" and "Marital Power Exemplified in Mrs. Packard's Trial, and Self-Defence from the Charge of Insanity; or, Three Years' Imprisonment for Religious Belief, by the Arbitrary Will of a Husband"; Elizabeth Cady Stanton, "Address to the Legislature of New York."
 Kathryn Burns-Howard is a visiting assistant professor of history at Miami University of Ohio. She is writing a book on the 19th-century law of insanity, the family and the development of American individualism. 

        
Harriet Tubman's Great Raid
        
The Great Civil War Lie
        
The Last 15 Feet at Vicksburg
        
Freedom for California's Indians
        
Rape and Justice in the Civil War

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (89%); WOMEN (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (86%); CIVIL WAR (86%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); FAMILY (77%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (76%); CELEBRITIES (75%); SLAVERY (70%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (64%) Civil War (US) (1861-65); Illinois; Slavery; Stanton, Elizabeth Cady; Women's Rights; Disunion

PERSON: Stanton, Elizabeth Cady

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%) Illinois

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2013



623 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1443 words

HEADLINE: Border Raids

BYLINE: DAVID BROOKS and GAIL COLLINS


HIGHLIGHT: Brooks and Collins review Rick Perry&#8217;s traveling salesman act. 

 BODY:
Gail Collins: David, you travel so much that I'm never sure where you are when I'm conversing with you. Do you happen to currently be in any of the places where the governor of Texas, Rick Perry, is trying to steal jobs?
David Brooks: Could be, I was in London and Connecticut this week. In London I thought I saw him standing guard in front of Buckingham Palace. I couldn't tell if he was wearing one of those tall fuzzy hats or if that was just his natural hair.
In Connecticut I saw him taking tickets at the Ivoryton Playhouse, a small theater 10 miles from the coastline. I hear he's also in a traveling production of "Once." He plays a mournful Czech woman whose love affair with an Irish singer doesn't end well.
Gail: What a coincidence. This week, Perry is taking his argument about low regulation and low taxes to Connecticut and New York, telling our local businesses that they would be much better off moving to Texas. 
David: Really? Then maybe I actually did see him in the Nutmeg State.
Gail: Can I say that I think it should be against the law for one state to use taxpayer money to try to bribe businesses in another state to move? Which then causes the target state to use taxpayer dollars to try to bribe the businesses to stay. Texas is hardly the only place that does that, but it's wrong, wrong, wrong. I'm sort of suspicious of most economic development projects, but the ones that encourage taxpayer-funded relocation bidding wars should be declared unconstitutional.
David: We're going to make a libertarian out of you yet, Gail. On this, you, me and Ron Paul agree. These so-called development programs just tax small businesses in order to give large businesses money for doing things they'd probably do anyway.
Gail: While I'm on the subject of wrong, wrong, wrong, I should also say that the idea of Perry going to Connecticut to try to woo the state's gunmakers to Texas is sick, sick, sick. This is all about the strict gun laws Connecticut passed after the Newtown school shooting, and Perry's trying to take advantage of it.
David: Luring companies like Colt seems small bore to me. Does Perry not realize he could be luring nuclear submarine makers from New London? With enough corporate welfare he could lure Electric Boat from Groton to Midland. The lack of any real body of water in Midland would be considered a minor inconvenience. The ships could float on a sea of bragging.
Gail: Let's go back to the basics. I acknowledge that Texas has been very successful at growing jobs, but I disagree with Perry over what our colleague Tom Friedman would call the secret sauce. The Texas sauce is actually: lots of undeveloped land, that long border with our big trading partner Mexico, its oil-based energy industry and a large chunk of government defense spending in the form of huge military bases like Fort Hood.
David: I don't agree with you there. The demographer Joel Kotkin has written a ton about this. Texas is booming in part because high-tech firms are leaving California for a more business-friendly environment. Dallas and Houston are not just about energy and defense spending.
Gail: I'm sure businesses like the low-regulation environment. But the ones that went to Texas or stay in Texas because of low regulation are not businesses you would want moving to your neighborhood.
David: O.K., so the make Gail a libertarian project still has a ways to go. I'd say that even good businesses are hampered by regulations. Sometimes the rules are arbitrary and sometimes they are vague. Much of the time the rules are influenced by established big businesses in an effort to limit competition from new small ones.
Gail: What good businesses - the kind you want to attract - care most about is predictability. Are the regulations simple enough that I can figure out what I'm supposed to do to be in compliance? If my company grows, will I be able to find land to expand? If I need more workers, can I find the ones with the proper training?
David: I do hear that a lot from businesspeople, but a profusion of rules tends by its very nature to be unpredictable. Moreover, officials in some states regard business as inherently evil - there to be controlled and checked - while others regard business as inherently wealth-generating and there to be supported. It makes sense that business leaders would prefer to work in states where the latter attitude prevails.
Gail: In this day and age, I think every state is madly in love with businesses. But some are more evenhanded about it. Let's look at taxes. Texas has no income tax, which is a big draw for corporate executives who do business there. But it's hardly tax-free. The property taxes are high for a Southern state. The sales taxes are high. One study found that the bottom 20 percent of the Texas population pays 12 percent of its income in state and local taxes.
David: Still, it's got to be cheaper for poor people to live in Texas than New York. Part of the tax burden in New York is hidden. Housing regulations control development and boost rent, for example.
Gail: Texas is a great place to be rich and a terrible place to be poor. It's got the highest percentage of people without health insurance in the country. If you get injured on the job, good luck getting workers' comp. And God help you if you're poor and mentally ill. Whenever I see Rick Perry on one of his booster tours, I keep wondering if we want to be the kind of country that celebrates all that.
David: I guess I should note that for a state that is apparently a terrible place to be poor, it does seem to attract a lot of poorer people. The population flow is pretty evident. That said, I think the state is making a big mistake by weakening spending on higher ed. Talk about eating your seed corn.
Is that the right farm metaphor? I'm a city kid. We said, "Melting down your subway tokens."
Gail: Perry has a magic-of-the-marketplace theory that America will be better off if every state vies for business development by proving that its rules are laxer and its taxes lower than the anybody else's. I'd argue that the country gets stronger when there's a strong national safety net, and no competing to see who can get to the bottom of the barrel fastest.
David: There have got to be trade-offs between dynamism and security. You and I might disagree about how to strike a balance between those trade-offs, but that's got to be the essential tension. I find that most states find the welfare state that suits their culture. Texas is a such a big, individualistic state, it makes sense that it would favor dynamism over equality.
Gail: Yeah, but there's nothing dynamic about people not having basic health care. Texas is not going to take part in the new Medicaid program that's part of Obamacare. I'm betting that won't last long - the state's big hospitals are going to take a huge hit and sooner or later, the very large poor population is going to rise up in outrage.
David: Maybe. I'm assuming, though, that some states will find that there is flexibility to be gained by cutting the Medicaid strings.
Gail: You know, Texas doesn't spend nearly enough to produce all the college graduates its businesses need to employ. It imports the educated workers for the high-tech businesses Perry brags about so much. I'm glad college graduates have those opportunities, but when he goes to places like New York and Illinois and California to try to steal away jobs, it'd be nice if he acknowledged his state's debt to their systems of higher education.
David: I agree, though it would be clever to let other states pay to educate people and then you'd just scoop them up postgraduation.
Gail: You've been pretty patient with my ranting David, thanks. Next time if you want, you can pick a state to yell about. Do you have any big complaints about Nebraska or Indiana?
David: I'm neutral about Nebraska and I'm positively giddy about Indiana, since I spend my time these days watching I.U. play in the College World Series (I know you are as riveted as I am). I have problems with Florida, especially the way Democratic big government policies have contributed to its flatness and the annoying highway tolls around Orlando. I feel Montana is overly majestic and really needs to be taken down a peg. Pennsylvania has one of my favorite slogans ("Welcome to Pennsylvania: Gateway to Ohio"). I was in Wisconsin twice over the past few weeks, disturbed both times by the fact that the local radio stations seem unaware that any music has been produced since 1978.
Other than that, I guess each state is special in its own way. Except Connecticut.

        
Targeting Texas
        
E Pluribus Me
        
An Ethnic Map
        
Who's Sorry Now
        
Mitchel Thompson's War

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (74%); THEATER (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); GUN CONTROL (67%); RELOCATIONS (67%); FIREARMS (65%); NAVAL CONSTRUCTION & RETROFIT (60%); SHOOTINGS (60%); NAVAL VESSELS (60%); SANDY HOOK ELEMENTARY SCHOOL SHOOTINGS (60%); SCHOOL VIOLENCE (60%) Connecticut; Kotkin, Joel; Once (Play); Perry, Rick; Relocation of Business; States (US); Texas; The Conversation

PERSON: RICK PERRY (90%); RON PAUL (50%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (50%) Kotkin, Joel; Perry, Rick

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); NEW LONDON, CT, USA (72%) TEXAS, USA (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) Connecticut; Texas

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2013



624 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 3540 words

HEADLINE: Updates on the Fed Announcement

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: A statement by the Fed&#8217;s policy committee and a news conference by Ben S. Bernanke could provide clues about when the central bank might curtail its stimulus programs. 

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve's policy statement and news conference were awaited with unusual anticipation by economists and investors looking for clues about when the central bank might curtail its stimulus programs. The markets have been in turmoil since the Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, said at a May 22 hearing that a change could come "in the next few meetings" of the Fed's policy making board. Here is an account of how the statement and Mr. Bernanke's appearance unfolded.
 3:33 P.M. | The Bernanke Exit 
The Fed's video stream of Bernanke fades to a yoga video/pan-flute soundtrack as he exits the stage. Market not calmed. 
- Nathaniel Popper (@nathanielpopper)19 Jun 13
 3:29 P.M. | And That's It 
Mr. Bernanke has just wrapped up his news conference, in a hair under an hour.
 3:29 P.M. | Thumbs Up on Money Market Fund Reform 
Money market fund reform goes prime time. Bernanke says the SEC is moving in the right direction with call for a floating NAV
- Nathaniel Popper (@nathanielpopper)19 Jun 13
 3:27 P.M. | Getting Inflation 'Up to Target' 
The Fed continues to undershoot its own inflation target and unemployment remains uncomfortably high. But the central bank has shown no interest in expanding its pace of asset purchases to nudge inflation up while continuing to help bring unemployment down.
Responding to a question about that apparent paradox, Mr. Bernanke responded that the Fed would "like to get inflation up to our target," saying that it is "entirely wrong to say we're not concerned about it." He stressed that the bank believed low inflation would hold back the recovery, by retarding the pace of household deleveraging and effectively increasing real interest rates. But he said that inflation seemed to be low for some transitory reasons, such as a temporary swoon in prices for medical care. "We expect inflation to come back up," he added.
- Annie Lowrey 
 3:22 P.M. | Behind the Stock Slump 
The more Mr. Bernanke has said, the more investors seem to fear that an end to the Fed's stimulus programs are drawing nearer.
Leading stock indexes have dropped sharply since Mr. Bernanke began speaking, taking the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index down 1 percent in recent trading, the low point for the day.
Part of the reason given for the sell-off is Mr. Bernanke's comments about a threshold of a 7 percent unemployment rate for beginning to slow down Fed bond purchases. Before today, the Fed has said it has a 6.5 percent threshold for raising interest rates, but there had been few indications of a different threshold for the bond purchasing program. A 7 percent threshold suggests that a tapering of bond buying may be closer than expected.
More broadly, Mr. Bernanke has made repeated comments about the positive trends in the United States economy and the housing market. If the Fed sees economic recovery, that is likely to lead to an end to the Fed support that the market has been so reliant on. In the current economy, such good news is viewed by investors as bad news.
- Nathaniel Popper 
 3:20 P.M. | How the Fed Statement Evolved 
Nelson D. Schwartz of The Times has annotated a comparison of the statement issued after the Federal Open Market Committee meeting that just ended and the previous statement in May.
 3:16 P.M. | No Distortion of Mortgage Market Is Seen 
Mr. Bernanke said he did not believe that the Federal Reserve's purchases of mortgage-backed securities were swamping or distorting the broader housing finance market. He noted that despite the Fed's aggressive purchase of mortgage-backed assets, it retained just a "fraction" of the overall volume of such assets. "Our assessment is that the M.B.S. market is still a quite healthy market," he said.
But he did note that the government, writ large, is the mortgage market for all intents and purchases at the moment. "Fannie and Freddie are basically it," he said, referring to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the bailed-out mortgage giants that are financing a large majority of new home loans. And he noted the broader debate over Washington's role in the market in the future.
- Annie Lowrey 
 3:13 P.M. | One View: Low Rates Here to Stay 
Bernanke emphasizing that the Fed won't necessarily raise interest rates when unemployment hits 6.5%. Low interest rates are here to stay.
- Justin Wolfers (@justinwolfers)19 Jun 13
 3:10 P.M. | Whatever Else, More Clarity 
The markets have received a clear answer to the question on everyone's mind before this presser. Like it or not, we now have clarity.
 - Binyamin Appelbaum (@BCAppelbaum)19 Jun 13
 3:08 P.M. | On the Rate Outlook, All Over the Map 
Here is the Fed's forecast for the American economy: It will improve, but not right away. But as for when, Fed officials have not the foggiest idea.
The Fed released the opinions of the participants in meetings of the Federal Reserve's Open Market Committee on where the Federal Funds rate would be at the end of 2015, "assuming appropriate monetary policy."
The responses were rounded to the nearest quarter percent. Here they are:

        
0.25 percent - 1
        
0.5 percent - 2
        
0.75 percent -3
        
1 percent - 4
        
1.25 percent - 2
        
1.5 percent - 3
        
2 percent - 1
        
3 percent - 3
Asked where they thought the rate would be in the "longer run," they were less split. The responses ranged from 3.25 percent to 4.5 percent. That time presumably is after we have a full recovery.
Robert Barbera, the co-director of the Center for Financial Economics at Johns Hopkins University, said the 2015 forecasts looked as if they had come from "a random number generator." They know where they want to go, he said, pointing to the longer-run figures, "but they are clueless about how the transition will proceed."
All but one of them think the rate will be around 0.25 percent at the end of this year, and all but four think it will be there at the end of 2014, although one of those expects it to get up to 1.5 percent by then.
Perhaps Wall Street, which swooned last month at hints that an end to quantitative easing might be near, will take comfort from the shorter-term consensus.
- Floyd Norris 
 3:05 P.M. | Confidence in Housing 
#Bernanke anchoring confidence in HOUSING, which is bubbling for reasons emanating from Fed policy and fundamental post-crash dislocations.
- Dan Alpert (@DanielAlpert)19 Jun 13
 3:03 P.M. | 'Substantial Is in the Eye of the Beholder' 
The Fed has tried to clarify its policies for market participants, including through news conferences such as the one going on. But more communication comes with its own pitfalls.
Asked by my colleague Binyamin Appelbaum to clarify what substantial improvement in the economy and labor markets might mean in policy terms, Mr. Bernanke responded, "Substantial is in the eye of the beholder."
Mr. Bernanke noted that the Fed's extraordinary asset purchases came with risks and uncertainties not associated with the central bank's usual policy lever of lowering interest rates. The idea is to get some "near-term momentum to get the economy moving forward into a sustainable recovery," he said. Low interest rates would then "carry us through."
He summed it all up with a strange metaphor: ending the extraordinary policies is like trying "to land the ship in a smooth way onto the aircraft carrier."
He added later, "We are determined to be as clear as we can," saying he hoped listeners would be able "to follow what we're saying."
- Annie Lowey 
 2:58 P.M. | This Is Your Pilot Speaking 
Bernanke's aptly strange metaphor for ending extraordinary purchases: Trying to "land the ship in a smooth way onto the aircraft carrier."
 - Annie Lowrey (@AnnieLowrey)19 Jun 13
 2:57 P.M. | Stock Decline Gets Steeper 
Stocks continue falling as Bernanke speaks, indexes reach their lows for the day.
 - Nathaniel Popper (@nathanielpopper)19 Jun 13
 2:54 P.M. | Bernanke: It's Not About Me 
Mr. Bernanke: We're not here to talk about me. We're here to talk about policy.
 - Binyamin Appelbaum (@BCAppelbaum)19 Jun 13
 2:51 P.M. | A Caveat From the Chairman 
At the news conference, Mr. Bernanke is stressing that the Fed's policy is going to be responsive to what is happening in the economy: "If you draw the conclusion that I've just said that our policies, our purchases, will end in the middle of next year, you've drawn the wrong conclusion," he said. If the Fed's forecasts are overly optimistic or pessimistic, he indicated, it remains ready to change course.
- Annie Lowrey 
 2:49 P.M. | Treasuries vs. Mortgage Bonds 
Mr. Bernanke took steps to ease some of the concerns swirling around the mortgage market.
In recent years, the Fed's purchases of mortgage-backed bonds have helped push down mortgage rates, which has helped stimulate the housing market and the economy.
In recent weeks, mortgage rates have leaped as worries about the Fed stepping off bond purchases have swirled. This, in turn, has generated concerns about the housing market recovery.
Mr. Bernanke said in his opening remarks that when the Fed did start easing its bond purchases, it would start with Treasury bonds, not mortgage bonds. That will put more pressure on Treasury bonds, but could help ease the recent selling of mortgage-backed bonds.
- Nathaniel Popper 
 2:45 P.M. | Bernanke Explains Unemployment Target 
For what might be the first time, Ben S. Bernanke has made policy news at a news conference.
Mr. Bernanke announced an unemployment-rate target at which it might start to taper its asset purchases: 7 percent. Judging by the Fed's own projections, that would mean the taper would be coming toward the end of this year.
The purpose of the announcement is to reduce confusion, it seems. "It was thought it might be best for me to explain that," Mr. Bernanke said at the news conference.
- Annie Lowrey 
 2:42 P.M. | An Unemployment Target Rate 
Wow. The Fed now has an unemployment rate target for asset purchases: 7 percent.
- Binyamin Appelbaum (@BCAppelbaum)19 Jun 13
 2:39 P.M. | Dissenting Voices, a Hawk and a Dove 
This month, there were two dissenters to the Fed's policy of keeping up its asset purchases at a pace of $85 billion a month, a hawk and a dove.
Esther L. George of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, the hawk, "was concerned that the continued high level of monetary accommodation increased the risks of future economic and financial imbalances and, over time, could cause an increase in long-term inflation expectations," the Fed said. The idea is that the Fed might be overextending itself or blowing bubbles, with potentially serious consequences.
But James B. Bullard of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis "believed that the committee should signal more strongly its willingness to defend its inflation goal in light of recent low inflation readings." To translate, Mr. Bullard indicated concern that inflation was undershooting the Fed's own targets. Why might low inflation be a bad thing? For one, it reduces the incentive to invest. It also makes it harder for debt holders, like homeowners who are underwater on their mortgages or struggling with hefty student loan payments, to pay that money back.
- Annie Lowrey 
 2:35 P.M. | A 'Strong Majority' 
Mr. Bernanke makes it official: "A strong majority" now expects that the Fed will not sell mortgage bonds to wind down its portfolio.
 - Binyamin Appelbaum (@BCAppelbaum)19 Jun 13
 2:30 P.M. | Some Growth Projections Are Trimmed 
The policy-making committee says that downside risks have "diminished" since the fall; it nudged down its unemployment estimate for this year and the following two years as well. Still, it lowered its estimate of economic output for this year, and tweaked its following-year projections as well.
Here is a comparison of its estimates for real economic growth:
For 2013:

        
March estimate: 2.3 to 2.8 percent
        
June estimate: 2.3 to 2.6 percent
        
Higher or lower? A bit lower
For 2014:

        
March estimate: 2.9 to 3.4 percent
        
June estimate: 3 to 3.5 percent
        
Higher or lower? A bit higher
For 2015:

        
March estimate: 2.9 to 3.7 percent
        
June estimate: 2.9 to 3.6 percent
        
Higher or lower? A bit lower
- Annie Lowrey 
 2:23 P.M. | Bond Yields Shoot Up 
Bond investors look as if they are taking the Fed statement as a signal that the central bank will soon ease off its bond-buying programs.
The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note, which goes up when investors sell the bonds, has shot up since 2 p.m. and was recently trading at 2.27 percent, up from 2.17 percent on Tuesday evening. The selling takes the yield on United States government bonds to their highest level since March 2012.
Dan Greenhaus, the chief global strategist at BTIG, wrote that investors were responding to the Fed's statement that the "downside risks to the outlook for the economy" had "diminished since the fall." An improving economy will eventually lead the Fed to decrease its stimulus measures.
"That's not good for bonds but ultimately will be good for stocks," Mr. Greenhaus wrote.
- Nathaniel Popper 
 2:21 P.M. | A Brighter Jobs Outlook 
The unemployment picture seems to be looking better, the Fed thinks.
In new economic projections, the central bank estimates that the unemployment rate will fall to between 6.5 and 6.8 percent in 2014. In March, it put its projections a bit higher, at 6.7 percent to 7 percent. The same goes for 2015. The Fed now says it believes that the jobless rate will be somewhere between 5.8 and 6.2 percent, where it had forecast somewhere between 6 and 6.5 percent in March.
The Fed also tamped down its inflation projections for next year and the year after. For 2014, the Fed expects core inflation of just 1.5 percent to 1.8 percent, down from an estimate of 1.7 percent to 2 percent as of March. It sees inflation picking up slightly in 2015, though to lower levels than it saw just a few months ago, as well. The levels of inflation indicated in the report remain below the Fed's own target of 2 percent.
- Annie Lowrey 
 2:19 P.M. | Stocks Are Negative, but Not by Much 
Stock markets shot up and then dropped back down immediately after the Fed released its latest policy statement.
The markets reflected a tug of war between traders over the meaning of the Fed's statement. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index to hit both its highs and its lows for the day in the minutes after the statement was posted, but the negative sentiment seemed to be winning out.
On the positive side, the Fed said the open market committee "decided to continue purchasing" bonds, calming the concerns that the Fed could slow down its purchases in the coming months.
But the statement also suggested that the economic picture is improving, which is likely to eventually lead the Fed to slow down its purchases. Some traders see that as a potential negative for the market, at least in the near term.
- Nathaniel Popper 
 2:11 P.M. | Taper? What Taper? 
No signs of a taper here.
The Federal Reserve's policy-making committee, in a statement following a regularly scheduled meeting, has said that it intends to continue its current pace of bond purchases, designed to bring down interest rates and more generally help an economy still struggling in the wake of the recession.
"The Committee decided to continue purchasing additional agency mortgage-backed securities at a pace of $40 billion per month and longer-term Treasury securities at a pace of $45 billion per month," a policy statement said. All in all, the extraordinary policies "should maintain downward pressure on longer-term interest rates, support mortgage markets and help to make broader financial conditions more accommodative."
That might come as something of a relief to investors. Chairman Ben S. Bernanke had indicated at a Congressional hearing earlier this year that the central bank might start to "taper" its pace of new purchases in the coming months, essentially starting to ease its foot off of the accelerator though not putting it on the brake. Nevertheless, that has caused some queasiness in the markets, particularly given that the recovery remains weak by historical standards. It has also raised the question of how long the Fed can keep on expanding its balance sheet, with some analysts worrying about diminishing returns and the risks associated with the Fed soaking up so many assets.
- Annie Lowrey 
 2:10 P.M. | The Tone of the Statement 
Certainly sounds like the Fed is trying to convince itself that it is doing enough, and that it will soon be doing too much.
 - Binyamin Appelbaum (@BCAppelbaum)19 Jun 13
 2:09 P.M. | Outlook on Unemployment 
The latest Fed forecasts show that officials expect unemployment to decline more quickly: http://t.co/QLRgOpxyqo
- Binyamin Appelbaum (@BCAppelbaum)19 Jun 13
 2:09 P.M. | News Alert: Bond Buying to Continue 
Here's the announcement from the Federal Open Market Committee.
And the first take from Binyamin Appelbaum, with the headline: Fed, More Optimistic About Economy, Maintains Bond-Buying.
Market reaction so far is muted.
 1:57 P.M. | Video: Some Background on the Taper 
In anticipation of Ben Bernanke's press conference, you can't beat this: Taper Tantrum http://t.co/pnzKoSQDsN
- Tom Redburn (@TomRedburn)19 Jun 13
 1:48 P.M. | What Analysts Are Telling Clients 
Here is how a few analysts and economists are preparing their clients for the Fed's announcement:
 Eric Green, global head of rates research. TD Securities: "The Fed can and will stay on message, and still provide some hot tea and a wooly blanket to a market shivering under the cold light of tapering. We do not expect any major changes to the post meeting statement, no quantitative guideline to the scaling back QE, and no fundamental changes to economic forecasts that will continue to show escape velocity is fast approaching. The Fed has the incentive to stay on message."
 Kevin Pleines, equity market analyst at Birinyi Associates: "While the press would have one believe that drastic action is imminent, only five of the 75 economists surveyed by Bloomberg expect an increase in the Fed funds rate by the second quarter of 2014. That being said, 76% of economists surveyed believe the Fed will announce a reduction in bond buying by at least their December meeting."
 Andrew Wilkinson, chief economic strategist at Miller Tabak & Company: "If you could imagine being a psychiatrist sitting down pencil in hand with a relaxed Ben Bernanke as your patient, what would you ask him? None of the journalists attending today's FOMC press conference will want to waste a question on something as simple as when he might taper, because surely, someone else will do that for the benefit of everyone else in the room. So what should the shrink ask to help get better insight to the Chairman's thought process?"
 Jim Reid, head of global credit strategy, Deutsche Bank: "Today could dictate the rest of the summer and decide whether it will be one of very short or long nights for markets. The reality is that not much has changed data wise since Bernanke's JEC testimony on May 22nd and therefore he has an opportunity to say that the Fed are still data dependent and leaving no set timetable for tapering."
- Nathaniel Popper 
 1:37 P.M. | What the Markets Are Looking For 
Markets are in a state of almost eerie calm as investors await the Federal Reserve statement.
Through early afternoon, the major stock indexes were trading within 0.2 percent of Tuesday's close. Traders have talked about saving up their firepower to respond to the Fed later in the day. A note from RBS strategists said that the markets they were watching "were very narrow as we wait for today's Fed meeting."
This is a sharp departure from the volatility in the markets over the last few weeks, as investors have furiously tried to divine the Fed's future intentions and prepare their portfolios for any change.
Since Mr. Bernanke said on May 22 that the central bank could look at changing policy "in the next few meetings," the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index has had five days with at least a 1 percent move.
On days when it appeared that the Fed might be preparing to pull back on the stimulus, stocks have generally sold off, while indications that the Fed might continue on with the stimulus have led markets up. The swings back and forth have left the benchmark index down slightly from where it was on May 22.
Some of the most serious action has been taking place in the bond markets, which are particularly sensitive to the possibility that the Fed could step back from its purchases of government and mortgage bonds. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note, which goes up when investors sell bonds, has risen from 1.6 percent in early May to 2.2 percent on Tuesday. This has pushed up mortgage rates, which has already driven down the number of homeowners refinancing their mortgages.
Much of the activity has been about preparing for what the Fed's statement will say, and how Mr. Bernanke will explain it in his news conference. If Mr. Bernanke gives any indication that the Fed is looking at "tapering" its bond purchases, stocks and bonds are expected to sell off.
There are also some hopes that Mr. Bernanke will provide clarity about whether he plans to leave the Fed when his term runs out in January, which would probably influence the future direction of Fed policy.
- Nathaniel Popper 

        
Wall Street's Ideal Jobs Gain: Middling
        
The Gorilla and the Maginot Line
        
Late Night With Ben Bernanke
        
No More, No Less
        
Lessons on Fiscal Policy Since the Recession

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BONDS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (87%); STOCK INDEXES (87%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (78%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (64%) Bernanke, Ben S; Federal Open Market Committee; Federal Reserve System; Interest Rates; Stocks and Bonds; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: Federal Open Market Committee; Federal Reserve System

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (94%) Bernanke, Ben S

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2013



625 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2013

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 490 words

HEADLINE: Wheelies: The Eco-Truck Edition

BYLINE: BENJAMIN PRESTON


HIGHLIGHT: G.M. boasts 24 m.p.g. highway fuel economy on its new EcoTec3 V-6-equipped rear-wheel-drive pickup trucks. 

 BODY:
In which we bring you motoring news from around the Web:
 General Motors announced on Wednesday a new engine for its Chevrolet Silverado and GMC Sierra pickups. In a departure from the typical horsepower-oriented marketing angle, G.M.'s focus for its all-new 4.3-liter EcoTec3 V-6 engine is fuel economy. E.P.A. estimates for G.M.'s EcoTec3-equipped rear-wheel-drive trucks are 18 miles per gallon in the city and 24 on the highway. E.P.A. numbers for the 4×4 trucks are 17 m.p.g. city and 22 highway. G.M. says its EcoTec3 trucks can carry a 2,108-pound payload, and are rated to tow 7,200 pounds. (General Motors) 
 According to a report from Automobile Magazine, Mitsubishi will provide three safety cars for the Pikes Peak International Hill Climb on June 29: a 2014 Outlander crossover and two Lancer Evolution sedans. Mitsubishi will also be running its MiEV Evolution II electric racecar in the high-altitude race. Automobile says that, kitted out with a 50-kilowatt-hour battery pack and four electric motors, the MiEV Evolution II is rated at 536 horsepower. (Automobile Magazine)
 Aston Martin released some details on the Vanquish Volante this week. In a nutshell, the GT roadster will be fast, topless and skinned entirely in carbon fiber. Its convertible top can be raised or lowered at speeds of up to 30 miles per hour, Aston Martin says, going up or down in 14 seconds. The car's snarling 5.9-liter V-12 engine will push it to a top speed of 183 m.p.h. Predictably, all that comes at a price. The Vanquish Volante, which should hit American dealerships early next year, will start at $297,995. (Autoblog)
 General Motors has refreshed the Buick LaCrosse sedan for 2014, and the company announced Tuesday that the LaCrosse will start at $34,060, including destination charges. LaCrosse's exterior sheet metal received a mild revamp, and its interior will be new, with more safety and technology features available than on the outgoing model; an 8-inch color display will be standard equipment. Buyers will be able to choose between a 2.4-liter 4-cylinder engine with eAssist - which pairs an electric motor with an EcoTec engine - and a 304-horsepower 3.6-liter V-6. Both engines will be mated with a 6-speed automatic transmission. (Automotive News)
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4xRioPhVIRE
"Easier Said Than Done," a documentary film about rally racing, is set to be released on Sept. 28 in Grand Rapids, Mich., with an Internet release date of Oct. 1. Filmed in eight countries around the world, the feature-length film features the exploits of drivers such as Chris Duplessis, Ken Block, Petter Solberg and Alex Kihurani, among others. (Facebook)

        
Wheelies: The Eurozone Plunge Edition
        
A Stop on a Michigan 'Garage Crawl' Reveals a Trove of Corvettes, Exotics and Other Classics
        
G.M. and BMW Adopt D.C. Electric Car Charging
        
Wheelies: The Soggy Supply Line Edition
        
N.H.T.S.A. Investigates Whether G.M. Should Expand Air Bag Recall

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (93%); SPORTS CARS (91%); PICKUP TRUCKS (91%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); SEDANS (89%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (76%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (73%); FILM (62%); MOVIE FILMING (61%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (61%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (60%) Aston Martin; automobiles; Chevrolet Division of General Motors Corp; Documentary Films and Programs; Fuel Efficiency; General Motors; Sports Utility Vehicles and Light Trucks; Automobiles; General Motors|GM|NYSE

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (93%)

ORGANIZATION: Aston Martin; Chevrolet Division of General Motors Corp; General Motors

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (93%) General Motors; GM; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (77%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2013



626 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Taking Note)

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 365 words

HEADLINE: W.T.O. Head Urges European Leaders to Lead

BYLINE: VIKAS BAJAJ


HIGHLIGHT: Pascal Lamy&#8217;s recent speech asks that European leaders protect not just their individual interests, but also those of the union. 

 BODY:
While Europe drowns in its problems, its leaders exacerbate them. In Britain, Prime Minister David Cameron has been promising a destabilizing referendum on the country's membership in the European Union. Francois Hollande of France has beentrying to undermine the E.U.'s negotiations with the United States on an important trade and investment agreement. And the administration of Germany's chancellor, Angela Merkel, has beentrying to delay a much needed banking union for the euro zone. 
In athoughtful speech today, Pascal Lamy, the French technocrat who heads the World Trade Organization, put his finger on what Europe needs now: leaders who lead. Though Mr. Lamy is too diplomatic to single out any specific leader or country for blame, his criticism of their failure to deal with the continent's "existential crisis" is clear and well-argued.

He identifies three central problems that European leaders must address immediately: a crisis of legitimacy, as symbolized by the growing disaffection many Europeans feel for the E.U.; a loss in faith in the continent's cohesion; and discontent with the continent's "social market economy," as Europeans increasingly believe it no longer works for them.
"The economic crisis in Europe is in reality the backdrop of a wider and deeper European crisis: a crisis in the very soul of European integration," said Mr. Lamy, who will step down as director general of the W.T.O. at the end of August. "Pandora's box has been opened, and voices pleading for the de-construction of the European project are becoming louder."
Mr. Lamy supports greater European unity and argued that a closer integration provides the best way out of the current crisis. He offered specific ideas that should be considered and debated by leaders and citizens alike. The tragedy, as my colleague David C. Unger wrote recently, is that the continent is not having a discussion about these ideas. Most of its leaders are content to focus on their narrow interests, rather than thinking about Europe as a whole-and as a union.

        
Panic in Cyprus
        
File Under: Paul Krugman Told You So
        
Europe Isn't Working
        
Is the Venue Change Good for Obama?
        
'I Love My Husband. So Vote for Him' - The Sequel

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); EURO CRISIS (78%); REFERENDUMS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); EURO ZONE (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); DEBT CRISIS (73%); EXTERNAL DEBT (73%); MONETARY UNIONS (72%) Europe; European Sovereign Debt Crisis (2010- ); European Union; Lamy, Pascal; Speeches and Statements; World Trade Organization; Featured Posts

ORGANIZATION: European Union; World Trade Organization

PERSON: PASCAL LAMY (90%); DAVID CAMERON (89%); FRANCOIS HOLLANDE (88%); ANGELA MERKEL (56%); BARACK OBAMA (56%); PAUL KRUGMAN (50%) Lamy, Pascal

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); CYPRUS (79%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2013



627 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2013

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: Data-Driven Aesthetics

BYLINE: MARK HANSEN


HIGHLIGHT: Data has become the basis for creative work in the arts. 

 BODY:
Looking out from a small control room, I scan the suspended grid of more than 200 iPhone-size computer screens for any sign of life. One flickers awake, flips through a sequence of messages, too fast to be legible, and then holds on the sentence "I'm really not meant for him." After a short pause, a screen three columns over lights up, runs through more messages and finds "I'm scared I'll lose my smile ..."
The grid is "Listening Post," a decade-old artwork by Ben Rubin and me that tries to portray the conversations happening across the Web. It will be shown as part of an exhibition opening Saturday at La Panacée, a new contemporary art center in Montpellier, France. 
Ten years ago, I was a statistician at Bell Laboratories. The idea that data might be the basis for creative work in the arts was new to me. But since then, I have collaborated with artists like Mr. Rubin, designers, even an experimental theater company.
From a speedometer to a weather map to a stock chart, we routinely interpret and act on data displayed visually. With a few exceptions, data has no natural "look," no natural "visualization," and choices have to be made about how it should be displayed. Each choice can reveal certain kinds of patterns in the data while hiding others.
While these decisions are often made on technical grounds, they are also questions of design. As Paola Antonelli, senior curator of architecture and design at the Museum of Modern Art, put it, "Design and data look at each other as companions."
Ms. Antonelli points to a recent visualization by Giorgia Lupi depicting the "Brain Drain" in science. Ms. Lupi asks, "What makes a researcher leave their home for another country?" Her image is made up of compound, geometric shapes that represent different countries arranged to depict the relationship between researchers per million people in a country, and the percentage of its G.D.P. devoted to scientific research and development.
The shapes themselves vary according to characteristics of each country's educational system and the balance of scientists entering and leaving the country. Ms. Lupi's visual borrows heavily from Mondrian and the language of abstract art.
Artists working in data can also help to highlight the ambiguity or uncertainty intrinsic in a data set. Take the mysteries of biological life, for example. A recent art commission, "Signals," is a 48-foot by 11-foot mural at the Koch Institute for Integrative Cancer Research at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
The assignment given to Casey Reas, a professor at the University of California, Los Angeles, and Ben Fry, a principal at Fathom, an information design consultancy, was to create a visualization of how proteins communicate within a cell, and how this signaling changes for cancer cells. As art, however, their goal was to give a qualitative feel of the nature of the data.
Mr. Reas and Mr. Fry worked closely with scientists on the project, and they used vast amounts of biological data. But, Mr. Reas said, "We were actually obscuring it in order to get closer to the feel of it."
Today, artists are working effectively with data at larger and larger scales. For example, Aaron Koblin, creative director at the Data Arts Team at Google, has designed a number of "classic" data visualizations involving large, complex data sets. These range from Web animations of airplane traffic over the continental United States to real-time representations of telephone and Internet traffic carried by AT&T into and out of New York City.
Crowdsourcing can be a data source. Mr. Koblin was a creative director on "The Johnny Cash Project," a work inviting participants to contribute separate, hand-drawn frames of the music video to Cash's "Ain't No Grave."
My latest collaboration with Mr. Rubin is again a piece that deals in snippets of text. Together with Jer Thorp, a data artist from Vancouver, we have created "Shakespeare Machine." It is a kind of data chandelier that hangs over the bar in the Public Theater in New York City. Each of its 37 blades displays text from one of the plays of Shakespeare.
In this project, we benefit from the digital humanities, and specifically the MONK project, or Metadata Offer New Knowledge, which adds extra information to each word of Shakespeare's plays.
In a kind of "anaphora mining," we combine the words, their parts of speech and something of their semantic content to identify common rhetorical structures. And so "the slings and arrows" in Hamlet matches "the prophets and apostles" in Henry VI and "the spies and speculations" in King Lear. Groups of phrases like these stream across the installation's blades.
The visual presentation of quantitative information is an old practice. Artists and designers now work throughout the systems that collect, store and process data. They are even making their own tools, both hardware and software.
And there are feedback loops - "Shakespeare Machine" is possible because the tools and techniques behind new forms of measurement for use in the arts are also producing new forms of data from the arts.

        
An Online Meter Reader
        
Digitizing Sports to Slake a Thirst for Stats
        
G.E. Makes the Machine, and Then Uses Sensors to Listen to It
        
Gauging the Natural, and Digital, Rhythms of Life
        
Daily Report: An Internet Art Fair

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (88%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (88%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (78%); PAINTING (75%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (75%); EXHIBITIONS (75%); ECONOMIC MIGRATION (75%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (75%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (75%); SCIENCE NEWS (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); BIG DATA (73%); ONCOLOGY (73%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (72%); THEATER (67%); CANCER (67%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (67%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Antonelli, Paola; Art; BigData2013; Rubin, Ben; Big Data 2013

COMPANY: BELL LABORATORIES (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (56%)

PERSON: Antonelli, Paola

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (76%) CALIFORNIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%); FRANCE (71%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2013



628 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1882 words

HEADLINE: Our Broken Social Contract

BYLINE: THOMAS B. EDSALL


HIGHLIGHT: At their core, are America&#8217;s problems primarily economic or moral? 

 BODY:
Many Americans think that their country has lost its way. But when they try to make sense of what's happening, they disagree about whether the problem is essentially economic or whether it stems from cultural and moral decay.
Charles Murray, the provocative author of "Coming Apart" and "The Bell Curve," argues that the cultural insurgencies of the 1960s yanked crucial underpinnings out from the social order and undermined traditional norms of self-restraint, responsibility, family, faith and country. Murray's latest portrayal of America's social deterioration focuses on the long-term impact of these insurgencies, notably on a typical, though fictional, working-class community he calls Fishtown. Fishtown is made up of whites who "have no academic degree higher than a high school diploma. If they work, their job must be in a blue-collar, service, or low-level white-collar occupation."
Murray continues: 
Now let us return to the relationship of Fishtown's decline with America's civic culture. The decline of industriousness among Fishtown males strikes at the heart of the signature of America's civic culture - the spirit of enterprise, stick-to-it-iveness, and hard work to make a better life for oneself and one's children. The divergence in marriage and the rise of single-parent homes has cascading effects. The webs of civic engagement in an ordinary community are spun largely by parents who are trying to foster the right environment for their children - lobbying the city council to install four-way stop signs at an intersection where children play, coaching the Little League teams, using the P.T.A. to improve the neighborhood school. For that matter, many of the broader political issues in a town or small city are fought out because of their direct and indirect effects on the environment for raising children. Married fathers are a good source of labor for these tasks. Unmarried fathers are not. Nor can the void be filled by the moms. Single mothers who want to foster the right environment for their children are usually doing double duty already, trying to be the breadwinner and an attentive parent at the same time. Few single mothers have much time or energy to spare for community activities.

An eloquent description of American social dysfunction comes from my colleague David Brooks, writing about Edward Snowden, who leaked information on domestic surveillance. Brooks argues that Snowden is the product of an upbringing lacking "gently gradated authoritative structures: family, neighborhood, religious group, state, nation and world," who thus became party to a
rising tide of distrust, the corrosive spread of cynicism, the fraying of the social fabric and the rise of people who are so individualistic in their outlook that they have no real understanding of how to knit others together and look after the common good.
A very different assessment of where and how America has lost its ethical and moral moorings comes from Alan Krueger, the chairman of President Obama's Council of Economic Advisers. Krueger has argued in two recent appearances, at Oberlin College and more recently at the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame (of all places) that the uncritical worship of the free market in the 1980s allowed the nation's corporate elite to abandon longstanding constraints in its treatment of labor, especially in shifting the rewards of rising productivity from employees to the owners of capital.
With the blessing of the new right, Krueger argues, corporate America has abandoned its commitment to the commonweal over the past three decades. It no longer honors norms of fairness and equality. To Krueger, it is in the economic sphere that American integrity has been eroded and its ideals corrupted.
At Oberlin, Krueger put it this way:
In considering reasons for the growing wage gap between the top and everyone else, economists have tended to shy away from considerations of fairness and instead focus on market forces, mainly technological change and globalization. But given the compelling evidence that considerations of fairness matter for wage setting, I would argue that we need to devote more attention to the erosion of the norms, institutions and practices that maintain fairness in the job market. We also need to focus on the policies that can lead to more widely shared - and stronger - economic growth. It is natural to expect that market forces such as globalization would weaken norms and institutions that support fairness in wage setting. Yet I would argue that the erosion of the institutions and practices that support fairness has gone beyond market forces.
As the point man for the Obama administration on economic policy, Krueger has become the leading opponent of those who believe that growing inequality and middle-class stagnation are the inevitable consequences of technological innovation and the disruptive force of globalization.
The approach Krueger disputes was succinctly expressed by Greg Mankiw, a Harvard economist who served as chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers in the George W. Bush administration.
In 2006, writing on his blog, Mankiw tackled the factors behind the decline of unions, which once exerted countervailing pressures on corporate giants:
One is globalization. As the economy becomes more open, firms are increasingly operating in competitive markets. This means they have less economic profit that could be a target for unions.
In a 2013 paper, "Defending the One Percent," Mankiw argues that
changes in technology have allowed a small number of highly educated and exceptionally talented individuals to command superstar incomes in ways that were not possible a generation ago.
Krueger agrees that globalization and technology have been powerful factors in shaping both the job market and the distribution of income. But he makes two points that directly undermine the economic inevitability argument, which is often used to justify the declining share of income going to labor and the sharp rise in income inequality that followed this decline.
First, if corporations are coerced by competition to slash spending, including labor costs, Krueger asks why "corporate profits as a share of the economy are near their all-time high." Such profits make it particularly "hard to argue that companies do not have the ability to support higher wages."
Figure 1 from the St. Louis Federal Reserve, hardly a bastion of radicalism, shows that corporate profits as a share of Gross Domestic Product have reached record levels:
Krueger suggests that the recent surge in corporate profits gives businesses wide leeway - what he terms a large "zone of indeterminacy"- to raise wages and remain solidly in the black.
Krueger's second point is that rising inequality has not achieved improved productivity:
Productivity growth has not accelerated over the past 30 years; in fact, except for the late 1990s (when inequality narrowed) productivity growth has slowed. If the rise in inequality had improved incentives, one would have expected productivity growth to rise even more quickly, not slow down. Indeed, it is hard to see what the macroeconomy has gained from the enormous shift in the income distribution.
Before the 1980s, C.E.O. pay, according to Kruger, was set with close attention to norms of fairness, so that the range of compensation between janitors and top executives was kept within limits. This "social compact began to fray in the 1980s," Krueger argued in his Cleveland speech. He provides a chart, Figure 2, showing "how labor compensation has failed to keep pace with productivity growth."
To further buttress his case, Krueger points out (see Figure 3) that other wealthy countries have experienced the same economic pressures as the United States, but have not seen such sharp rises in inequality.
"The level of inequality varies considerably across these countries," Krueger said. "The widely differing responses to globalization and technological change suggest that other factors mediate these forces."
While Krueger's analysis is very different from Charles Murray's or from David Brooks's, all three share an interest in what they see as disintegrating moral norms. And there is something else that binds them: the trends that Murray, Brooks and Krueger deplore continue with unrelenting force. From Murray's perspective, social decay and irresponsible behavior have spread into the broad working and lower middle class.
Social indicators of conventionally defined moral standards are discouraging: The percentage of children born to unwed mothers has grown from 20 percent in 1984, when Murray published his seminal work, "Losing Ground", to 41 percent in 2011; the rate among black women has gone from 59 percent to 72 percent, among white women from 12 percent to 29 percent and among Hispanic women 25 percent to 53 percent.
According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the work force participation rate among men without high school diplomas has fallen from 77.9 percent in 1983 to 57.9 percent in 2012, and for men with high school diplomas from 90.5 percent in 1983 to 69.6 percent in 2012.
Regarding David Brooks's lament concerning the "rise of people who are so individualistic in their outlook that they have no real understanding of how to knit others together and look after the common good," the American Psychological Association has published a paper containing this pithy observation:
"You can look at individual scores of narcissism, you can look at data on lifetime prevalence of Narcissistic Personality Disorder, you can look at related cultural trends, and they all point to one thing," says W. Keith Campbell, Ph.D., head of the University of Georgia psychology department. "Narcissism is on the rise."
Or look at the problem from Krueger's perspective as an economist: since Jan. 20, 2009, the day Obama took office, the Gini index, a standard measure of income inequality, has risen steadily (Figure 4).
Krueger's goal of bringing norms of fairness back into the business culture appears not to be taking hold. Emmanuel Saez, the Berkeley economist whose work on inequality is often cited by the Obama administration, released a study in January showing that during the first two years of the current recovery, 2009 to 2011, average family income grew by a modest 1.7 percent, "but the gains were very uneven. Top 1 percent incomes grew by 11.2 percent while bottom 99 percent incomes shrunk by 0.4 percent."
Earlier this month, Obama acknowledged America's uphill struggle on this score."Too many middle-class families still feel like they're working harder and harder and can't get ahead," he said. "Inequality is still growing in our society."
If these trends continue, and most evidence suggests they will, one of the central ironies of the Obama years will be that a Democratic administration committed to pushing back against the unjust distribution of resources and to the promotion of morally cohesive communities will in fact have overseen an eight-year period of social disintegration, inequality and rising self-preoccupation.
This is not the legacy the Obama administration wants to leave.

        
Why Can't America Be Sweden?
        
Singapore's Lessons for an Unequal America
        
Outsourcing Is Not (Always) Evil
        
Schooling Ourselves in an Unequal America
        
Japan Is a Model, Not a Cautionary Tale

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SINGLE PARENTS (89%); CHILDREN (88%); WRITERS (77%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (77%); MARRIAGE (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); TRENDS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); RELIGION (70%); SEWING & NEEDLECRAFTS (69%); HIGH SCHOOLS (69%); LOBBYING (69%); CITIES (64%); CITY GOVERNMENT (64%); YOUTH SPORTS (63%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (62%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Income Inequality; Social Conditions and Trends; United States; United States Economy; Thomas B. Edsall

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%) United States

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2013



629 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2013

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 1906 words

HEADLINE: Sizing Up Big Data, Broadening Beyond the Internet

BYLINE: STEVE LOHR


HIGHLIGHT: Internet companies were just the start. Virtually every field, from science to sports to public health, is being transformed by data-driven discovery and decision-making. 

 BODY:
In his young career, Jeffrey Hammerbacher has been a scout on the frontiers of the data economy.
In 2005, Mr. Hammerbacher, then a freshly minted Harvard graduate, did what many math and computing whizzes did. He went to Wall Street as a "quant," building math models for complex financial products.
Looking for a better use for his skills, Mr. Hammerbacher departed to Silicon Valley less than a year later and joined Facebook. He started a team that began to mine the vast amounts of social network data Facebook was collecting for insights on how to tweak the service and target ads. He called himself and his co-workers "data scientists," a term that has since become the hottest of job categories.
Facebook was a fabulous petri dish for data science. Yet after two and a half years, Mr. Hammerbacher decided it was time to move on, beyond social networks and Internet advertising. He became a founder of Cloudera, a start-up that makes software tools for data scientists. 
Then, starting last summer, Mr. Hammerbacher, who is now 30, embarked on a very different professional path. He joined the Mount Sinai School of Medicine in Manhattan as an assistant professor, exploring genetic and other medical data in search of breakthroughs in disease modeling and treatment.
The goal, Mr. Hammerbacher said, is "to turn medicine into the land of the quants."
The story is the same in one field after another, in science, politics, crime prevention, public health, sports and industries as varied as energy and advertising. All are being transformed by data-driven discovery and decision-making. The pioneering consumer Internet companies, like Google, Facebook and Amazon, were just the start, experts say. Today, data tools and techniques are used for tasks as varied as predicting neighborhood blocks where crimes are most likely to occur and injecting intelligence into hulking industrial machines, like electrical power generators.
Big Data is the shorthand label for the phenomenon, which embraces technology, decision-making and public policy. Supplying the technology is a fast-growing market, increasing at more than 30 percent a year and likely to reach $24 billion by 2016, according to a forecast by IDC, a research firm. All the major technology companies, and a host of start-ups, are aggressively pursuing the business.
Demand is brisk for people with data skills. The McKinsey Global Institute, the research arm of the consulting firm, projects that the United States needs 140,000 to 190,000 more workers with "deep analytical" expertise and 1.5 million more data-literate managers, whether retrained or hired, by 2020.
Yet the surveillance potential of Big Data, with every click stream, physical movement and commercial transaction monitored and analyzed, would strain the imagination of George Orwell. So what will be society's ground rules for the collection and use of data? How do we weigh the trade-offs involving privacy, commerce and security? Those issues are just beginning to be addressed. The debate surrounding the recent disclosure that the National Security Agency has been secretly stockpiling telephone call logs of Americans and poring through e-mail and other data from major Internet companies is merely an early round.
Big Data is a vague term, used loosely, if often, these days. But put simply, the catchall phrase means three things. First, it is a bundle of technologies. Second, it is a potential revolution in measurement. And third, it is a point of view, or philosophy, about how decisions will be - and perhaps should be - made in the future.
The bundle of technologies is partly all the old and new sources of data - Web pages, browsing habits, sensor signals, social media, GPS location data from smartphones, genomic information and surveillance videos. The data surge just keeps rising, doubling in volume every two years. Just two days of the current global data production, from all sources - five quintillion bytes (a letter of text equals one byte) - is about equal to the amount of information created by all the world's conversations, ever, according to research at the University of California, Berkeley.
Yet the importance of the sheer volume of data - and its exponential growth path - can be overstated. There's a lot of water in the ocean, too, but you can't drink it. Beyond advances in computer processing and storage, the other essential technology is the clever software to make sense of all that data. These are largely tools taken from the steadily evolving world of artificial intelligence, like machine learning.
The increasing volume and variety of data, combined with smart software, may well open the door to what some people call a revolution in measurement. This technology, they say, is the digital equivalent of the telescope or the microscope. Both of those made it possible to see and measure things as never before - with the telescope, it was the heavens and new galaxies; with the microscope, it was the mysteries of life down to the cellular level.
Data-driven insights, experts say, will fuel a shift in the center of gravity in decision-making. Decisions of all kinds, they say, will increasingly be made on the basis of data and analysis rather than experience and intuition - more science and less gut feel. Data, for example, is an antidote to the human tendency to rely too much on a single piece of information or what is familiar - what psychologists call "anchoring bias."
Big Data, its proponents insist, will be the next big trend in management. Erik Brynjolfsson, director of the MIT Center for Digital Business, cites the familiar business truism, "You can't manage what you can't measure." And as it opens new horizons in measurement, the modern data era, Mr. Brynjolfsson said, will transform the practice of management. Big Data, he said, will "replace ideas, paradigms, organizations and ways of thinking about the world."
But caveats are in order. Big Data is a descendant of Frederick Winslow Taylor's "scientific management" of a century ago. His instruments of measurement and recording were the stopwatch, clipboard and his eyes. Taylor and his acolytes used these time-and-motion studies to redesign work for maximum efficiency.
Yet eventually, the excesses of that approach became apparent and even satirical grist for the movie "Modern Times" by Charlie Chaplin. And the enthusiasm for quantitative methods has waxed and waned ever since.
Discrimination by statistical inference is a real risk in the Big Data world, as some personal data trails suggest a correlation that may be wrong. David C. Vladeck, a former senior Federal Trade Commission official and a professor of law at Georgetown University, offers this example: Imagine spending a few hours looking online for information on deep fat fryers. You could be looking for a gift for a friend or researching a report for cooking school. But to a data miner, tracking your online viewing, this hunt could be read as a telltale sign of an unhealthy habit - a data-based prediction that could make its way to a health insurer or potential employer.
And, again, the surveillance potential of Big Data technology, if it runs amok, is scary.
But all technologies involve trade-offs and risks. In ancient times, fire could cook your food and keep you warm, but, out of control, could burn down your hut. Cars pollute the air and cause traffic deaths, but they have also increased personal mobility and freedom, and stimulated the development of regional and national markets for goods.
Big Data technology is not fundamentally different. Its advance is probably inevitable, and the risks seem manageable and the potential benefits enormous. One glimpse of the potential payoff can be seen at the Mount Sinai Medical Center, in the work being pursued by the group Mr. Hammerbacher has joined.
The 100-member team at the Icahn Institute for Genomics and Multiscale Biology is headed by Eric E. Schadt, a leading researcher in genomics and biomathematics. Dr. Schadt joined Mount Sinai less than two years ago, lured by ample financing and the promise that his group's work would not be research in isolation but part of the medical center in treating patients.
The genomics revolution is on the cusp of realizing its promise, according to Dr. Schadt, thanks to the advancing technology of genetic sequencing and analysis. The government-financed Human Genome Project, completed in 2003, cost $2.7 billion. Today, whole human genome sequencing, identifying all three billion chemical units in the human genetic instruction set, can be done for $3,000. In three years, Dr. Schadt predicts, the cost will be less than $1,000, and in 5 to 10 years, less than $100, almost like a blood test today.
The technology makes it possible not only to observe life at the molecular level as never before, but also to explore how the minute ingredients of biology and the environment influence each other in individual humans - and personalize treatment. People with similar genetic traits, Dr. Schadt notes, often have very different health outcomes. Chronic ailments like cancer, heart disease and Alzheimer's are not caused by single genes, he said, but are "complex, networked disorders."
The Mount Sinai researchers, Dr. Schadt said, intend to combine genetic information with the medical histories - weight, age, gender, vital signs, tobacco use, toxic exposure and other data - to build more sophisticated models of biology and health outcomes. "We're trying to move medicine in the direction of climatology and physics; disciplines that are far more advanced and mature quantitatively," he said.
Dr. Schadt recruited Mr. Hammerbacher, an overture that coincided with Mr. Hammerbacher's research into where next to best apply his skills. He describes his career as a matter of "following the smartest people to find the best problem." Health care, in his view, is "the best problem by far," where his talents could do the most good. At Mount Sinai, Mr. Hammerbacher said he hoped to learn a lot and assemble a small group of computing and data experts to help accelerate the genomic and medical research there.
Mr. Hammerbacher remains the chief scientist of Cloudera and splits his time between San Francisco and Manhattan.
But he is spending more time in New York these days and just bought an apartment on the Lower East Side for himself and his wife.
Mr. Hammerbacher has qualms about the Big Data realm he has helped create, including the surveillance potential of the technology. "What does it mean," Mr. Hammerbacher pondered at one point, "to live in an era where things and people are infinitely observed?" And he appreciates that there is a lot of truth beyond data. "Just because you can't measure it easily doesn't mean it's not important," he observed.
While he is perhaps a qualified enthusiast, Mr. Hammerbacher is a data believer. He calls data the "intermediate representation of science." The genome, he said, is "the quantification of the core of what we are."
He says he thinks that medicine, and nearly every other field, will increasingly fall under the sway of what he calls "the numerical imagination," which can be distilled in a question: "What is the story the data tells us?"

        
From Campaign War Room to Big-Data Broom
        
In Hot Pursuit of Numbers to Ward Off Crime
        
Ways to Make Your Online Tracks Harder to Follow
        
An Online Meter Reader
        
Google Calls U.S. Data Request Disclosures a Step Backward for Users

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (92%); BIG DATA (91%); INTERNET & WWW (91%); SOCIAL MEDIA (90%); DIRECT TO CONSUMER DRUG MARKETING (76%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (75%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (75%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (72%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (72%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); CRIME PREVENTION (64%) BigData2013; Computers and the Internet; Research; Science and Technology; Social Networking (Internet); Big Data 2013

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (90%); GOOGLE INC (90%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (90%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2013



630 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; SpecialSections; BITS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 866 words

HEADLINE: Data-Driven Aesthetics

BYLINE: By MARK HANSEN. 
Mark Hansen is director of the David and Helen Gurley Brown Institute for Media Innovation and a professor at the Columbia Graduate School of Journalism.

 BODY:
Looking out from a small control room, I scan the suspended grid of more than 200 iPhone-size computer screens for any sign of life. One flickers awake, flips through a sequence of messages, too fast to be legible, and then holds on the sentence ''I'm really not meant for him.'' After a short pause, a screen three columns over lights up, runs through more messages and finds ''I'm scared I'll lose my smile ...''
The grid is ''Listening Post,'' a decade-old artwork by Ben Rubin and me that tries to portray the conversations happening across the Web. It will be shown as part of an exhibition opening Saturday at La Panacée, a new contemporary art center in Montpellier, France. 
Ten years ago, I was a statistician at Bell Laboratories. The idea that data might be the basis for creative work in the arts was new to me. But since then, I have collaborated with artists like Mr. Rubin, designers, even an experimental theater company.
From a speedometer to a weather map to a stock chart, we routinely interpret and act on data displayed visually. With a few exceptions, data has no natural ''look,'' no natural ''visualization,'' and choices have to be made about how it should be displayed. Each choice can reveal certain kinds of patterns in the data while hiding others.
While these decisions are often made on technical grounds, they are also questions of design. As Paola Antonelli, senior curator of architecture and design at the Museum of Modern Art, put it, ''Design and data look at each other as companions.''
Ms. Antonelli points to a recent visualization by Giorgia Lupi depicting the ''Brain Drain'' in science. Ms. Lupi asks, ''What makes a researcher leave their home for another country?'' Her image is made up of compound, geometric shapes that represent different countries arranged to depict the relationship between researchers per million people in a country, and the percentage of its G.D.P. devoted to scientific research and development.
The shapes themselves vary according to characteristics of each country's educational system and the balance of scientists entering and leaving the country. Ms. Lupi's visual borrows heavily from Mondrian and the language of abstract art.
Artists working in data can also help to highlight the ambiguity or uncertainty intrinsic in a data set. Take the mysteries of biological life, for example. A recent art commission, ''Signals,'' is a 48-foot by 11-foot mural at the Koch Institute for Integrative Cancer Research at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
The assignment given to Casey Reas, a professor at the University of California, Los Angeles, and Ben Fry, a principal at Fathom, an information design consultancy, was to create a visualization of how proteins communicate within a cell, and how this signaling changes for cancer cells. As art, however, their goal was to give a qualitative feel of the nature of the data.
Mr. Reas and Mr. Fry worked closely with scientists on the project, and they used vast amounts of biological data. But, Mr. Reas said, ''We were actually obscuring it in order to get closer to the feel of it.''
Today, artists are working effectively with data at larger and larger scales. For example, Aaron Koblin, creative director at the Data Arts Team at Google, has designed a number of ''classic'' data visualizations involving large, complex data sets. These range from Web animations of airplane traffic over the continental United States to real-time representations of telephone and Internet traffic carried by AT&T into and out of New York City.
Crowdsourcing can be a data source. Mr. Koblin was a creative director on ''The Johnny Cash Project,'' a work inviting participants to contribute separate, hand-drawn frames of the music video to Cash's ''Ain't No Grave.''
My latest collaboration with Mr. Rubin is again a piece that deals in snippets of text. Together with Jer Thorp, a data artist from Vancouver, we have created ''Shakespeare Machine.'' It is a kind of data chandelier that hangs over the bar in the Public Theater in New York City. Each of its 37 blades displays text from one of the plays of Shakespeare.
In this project, we benefit from the digital humanities, and specifically the MONK project, or Metadata Offer New Knowledge, which adds extra information to each word of Shakespeare's plays.
In a kind of ''anaphora mining,'' we combine the words, their parts of speech and something of their semantic content to identify common rhetorical structures. And so ''the slings and arrows'' in Hamlet matches ''the prophets and apostles'' in Henry VI and ''the spies and speculations'' in King Lear. Groups of phrases like these stream across the installation's blades.
The visual presentation of quantitative information is an old practice. Artists and designers now work throughout the systems that collect, store and process data. They are even making their own tools, both hardware and software.
And there are feedback loops -- ''Shakespeare Machine'' is possible because the tools and techniques behind new forms of measurement for use in the arts are also producing new forms of data from the arts.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: WORDS ALOFT: ''Shakespeare Machine'' at the Public Theater. (PHOTOGRAPH COURTESY OF THE OFFICE FOR CREATIVE RESEARCH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (88%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (88%); PAINTING (75%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (75%); EXHIBITIONS (75%); ECONOMIC MIGRATION (75%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (75%); SCIENCE NEWS (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (72%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (69%); ONCOLOGY (68%); THEATER (67%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (67%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (62%); CANCER (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: BELL LABORATORIES (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (71%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2013



631 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; SpecialSections; BITS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1892 words

HEADLINE: Sizing Up Big Data

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
In his young career, Jeffrey Hammerbacher has been a scout on the frontiers of the data economy.
In 2005, Mr. Hammerbacher, then a freshly minted Harvard graduate, did what many math and computing whizzes did. He went to Wall Street as a ''quant,'' building math models for complex financial products.
Looking for a better use for his skills, Mr. Hammerbacher departed to Silicon Valley less than a year later and joined Facebook. He started a team that began to mine the vast amounts of social network data Facebook was collecting for insights on how to tweak the service and target ads. He called himself and his co-workers ''data scientists,'' a term that has since become the hottest of job categories.
Facebook was a fabulous petri dish for data science. Yet after two and a half years, Mr. Hammerbacher decided it was time to move on, beyond social networks and Internet advertising. He became a founder of Cloudera, a start-up that makes software tools for data scientists. 
Then, starting last summer, Mr. Hammerbacher, who is now 30, embarked on a very different professional path. He joined the Mount Sinai School of Medicine in Manhattan as an assistant professor, exploring genetic and other medical data in search of breakthroughs in disease modeling and treatment.
The goal, Mr. Hammerbacher said, is ''to turn medicine into the land of the quants.''
The story is the same in one field after another, in science, politics, crime prevention, public health, sports and industries as varied as energy and advertising. All are being transformed by data-driven discovery and decision-making. The pioneering consumer Internet companies, like Google, Facebook and Amazon, were just the start, experts say. Today, data tools and techniques are used for tasks as varied as predicting neighborhood blocks where crimes are most likely to occur and injecting intelligence into hulking industrial machines, like electrical power generators.
Big Data is the shorthand label for the phenomenon, which embraces technology, decision-making and public policy. Supplying the technology is a fast-growing market, increasing at more than 30 percent a year and likely to reach $24 billion by 2016, according to a forecast by IDC, a research firm. All the major technology companies, and a host of start-ups, are aggressively pursuing the business.
Demand is brisk for people with data skills. The McKinsey Global Institute, the research arm of the consulting firm, projects that the United States needs 140,000 to 190,000 more workers with ''deep analytical'' expertise and 1.5 million more data-literate managers, whether retrained or hired, by 2020.
Yet the surveillance potential of Big Data, with every click stream, physical movement and commercial transaction monitored and analyzed, would strain the imagination of George Orwell. So what will be society's ground rules for the collection and use of data? How do we weigh the trade-offs involving privacy, commerce and security? Those issues are just beginning to be addressed. The debate surrounding the recent disclosure that the National Security Agency has been secretly stockpiling telephone call logs of Americans and poring through e-mail and other data from major Internet companies is merely an early round.
Big Data is a vague term, used loosely, if often, these days. But put simply, the catchall phrase means three things. First, it is a bundle of technologies. Second, it is a potential revolution in measurement. And third, it is a point of view, or philosophy, about how decisions will be -- and perhaps should be -- made in the future.
The bundle of technologies is partly all the old and new sources of data -- Web pages, browsing habits, sensor signals, social media, GPS location data from smartphones, genomic information and surveillance videos. The data surge just keeps rising, doubling in volume every two years. Just two days of the current global data production, from all sources -- five quintillion bytes (a letter of text equals one byte) -- is about equal to the amount of information created by all the world's conversations, ever, according to research at the University of California, Berkeley.
Yet the importance of the sheer volume of data -- and its exponential growth path -- can be overstated. There's a lot of water in the ocean, too, but you can't drink it. Beyond advances in computer processing and storage, the other essential technology is the clever software to make sense of all that data. These are largely tools taken from the steadily evolving world of artificial intelligence, like machine learning.
The increasing volume and variety of data, combined with smart software, may well open the door to what some people call a revolution in measurement. This technology, they say, is the digital equivalent of the telescope or the microscope. Both of those made it possible to see and measure things as never before -- with the telescope, it was the heavens and new galaxies; with the microscope, it was the mysteries of life down to the cellular level.
Data-driven insights, experts say, will fuel a shift in the center of gravity in decision-making. Decisions of all kinds, they say, will increasingly be made on the basis of data and analysis rather than experience and intuition -- more science and less gut feel. Data, for example, is an antidote to the human tendency to rely too much on a single piece of information or what is familiar -- what psychologists call ''anchoring bias.''
Big Data, its proponents insist, will be the next big trend in management. Erik Brynjolfsson, director of the MIT Center for Digital Business, cites the familiar business truism, ''You can't manage what you can't measure.'' And as it opens new horizons in measurement, the modern data era, Mr. Brynjolfsson said, will transform the practice of management. Big Data, he said, will ''replace ideas, paradigms, organizations and ways of thinking about the world.''
But caveats are in order. Big Data is a descendant of Frederick Winslow Taylor's ''scientific management'' of a century ago. His instruments of measurement and recording were the stopwatch, clipboard and his eyes. Taylor and his acolytes used these time-and-motion studies to redesign work for maximum efficiency.
Yet eventually, the excesses of that approach became apparent and even satirical grist for the movie ''Modern Times'' by Charlie Chaplin. And the enthusiasm for quantitative methods has waxed and waned ever since.
Discrimination by statistical inference is a real risk in the Big Data world, as some personal data trails suggest a correlation that may be wrong. David C. Vladeck, a former senior Federal Trade Commission official and a professor of law at Georgetown University, offers this example: Imagine spending a few hours looking online for information on deep fat fryers. You could be looking for a gift for a friend or researching a report for cooking school. But to a data miner, tracking your online viewing, this hunt could be read as a telltale sign of an unhealthy habit -- a data-based prediction that could make its way to a health insurer or potential employer.
And, again, the surveillance potential of Big Data technology, if it runs amok, is scary.
But all technologies involve trade-offs and risks. In ancient times, fire could cook your food and keep you warm, but, out of control, could burn down your hut. Cars pollute the air and cause traffic deaths, but they have also increased personal mobility and freedom, and stimulated the development of regional and national markets for goods.
Big Data technology is not fundamentally different. Its advance is probably inevitable, and the risks seem manageable and the potential benefits enormous. One glimpse of the potential payoff can be seen at the Mount Sinai Medical Center, in the work being pursued by the group Mr. Hammerbacher has joined.
The 100-member team at the Icahn Institute for Genomics and Multiscale Biology is headed by Eric E. Schadt, a leading researcher in genomics and biomathematics. Dr. Schadt joined Mount Sinai less than two years ago, lured by ample financing and the promise that his group's work would not be research in isolation but part of the medical center in treating patients.
The genomics revolution is on the cusp of realizing its promise, according to Dr. Schadt, thanks to the advancing technology of genetic sequencing and analysis. The government-financed Human Genome Project, completed in 2003, cost $2.7 billion. Today, whole human genome sequencing, identifying all three billion chemical units in the human genetic instruction set, can be done for $3,000. In three years, Dr. Schadt predicts, the cost will be less than $1,000, and in 5 to 10 years, less than $100, almost like a blood test today.
The technology makes it possible not only to observe life at the molecular level as never before, but also to explore how the minute ingredients of biology and the environment influence each other in individual humans -- and personalize treatment. People with similar genetic traits, Dr. Schadt notes, often have very different health outcomes. Chronic ailments like cancer, heart disease and Alzheimer's are not caused by single genes, he said, but are ''complex, networked disorders.''
The Mount Sinai researchers, Dr. Schadt said, intend to combine genetic information with the medical histories -- weight, age, gender, vital signs, tobacco use, toxic exposure and other data -- to build more sophisticated models of biology and health outcomes. ''We're trying to move medicine in the direction of climatology and physics; disciplines that are far more advanced and mature quantitatively,'' he said.
Dr. Schadt recruited Mr. Hammerbacher, an overture that coincided with Mr. Hammerbacher's research into where next to best apply his skills. He describes his career as a matter of ''following the smartest people to find the best problem.'' Health care, in his view, is ''the best problem by far,'' where his talents could do the most good. At Mount Sinai, Mr. Hammerbacher said he hoped to learn a lot and assemble a small group of computing and data experts to help accelerate the genomic and medical research there.
Mr. Hammerbacher remains the chief scientist of Cloudera and splits his time between San Francisco and Manhattan.
But he is spending more time in New York these days and just bought an apartment on the Lower East Side for himself and his wife.
Mr. Hammerbacher has qualms about the Big Data realm he has helped create, including the surveillance potential of the technology. ''What does it mean,'' Mr. Hammerbacher pondered at one point, ''to live in an era where things and people are infinitely observed?'' And he appreciates that there is a lot of truth beyond data. ''Just because you can't measure it easily doesn't mean it's not important,'' he observed.
While he is perhaps a qualified enthusiast, Mr. Hammerbacher is a data believer. He calls data the ''intermediate representation of science.'' The genome, he said, is ''the quantification of the core of what we are.''
He says he thinks that medicine, and nearly every other field, will increasingly fall under the sway of what he calls ''the numerical imagination,'' which can be distilled in a question: ''What is the story the data tells us?''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: DATA MAN: Jeffrey Hammerbacher studies genetic and other medical data. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (F10) DRAWING (DRAWING BY JONATHAN HARRIS AND SEP KAMVAR) (F1)
 CHARTS: Big Data Will Get Bigger: Global data production is predicted to surge with China and India growing the fastest. (Source: IDC) (F10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); SOCIAL MEDIA (90%); BIG DATA (90%); DIRECT TO CONSUMER DRUG MARKETING (76%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (75%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (75%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (72%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (72%); INTERNET & WWW (72%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); CRIME PREVENTION (64%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (90%); GOOGLE INC (56%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (90%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2013



632 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1427 words

HEADLINE: The Calorie-Packed Perk

BYLINE: By MOLLY YOUNG

 BODY:
Within my first week of working at a start-up, I acquired a gut. The reason was obvious: there was free food everywhere, it was delicious and I was nervous. Within five days I was heaving my stomach around like a kettle bell and crossly preparing, and then ignoring, cups of green tea.
It all started so innocently. On Monday, warm cookies from the Upper West Side bakery Levain appeared in the kitchen. Buttercream cupcakes followed; apparently it was somebody's birthday. (It is always somebody's birthday.) At noon, employees gathered for a catered lunch of barbecue. Two hours later, a Pinkberry station rolled into the office with the full battery of toppings. I helped myself to an incapacitating dose. By 5 p.m. my dress had grown so tight around the middle that I had to unzip it to my coccyx and put a sweater on top just to breathe.
And that was only the first day. 
My employer, the eyewear company Warby Parker, is not unusual. Small, high-growth tech companies have had a reputation for showering employees with lavish perks since the Silicon Valley bubble days. At Sun Microsystems, nursing mothers were provided lounges for breast-feeding and an on-call ''lactation consultant.'' Cisco offered dry-cleaning services and popcorn. Pinball machines lined the hallways at Excite@Home.
In his recent book, ''Finding the Next Steve Jobs,'' Nolan Bushnell, who founded Atari, recommends keeping toys in the office and allowing employees to nap on the clock -- like Steve Jobs, who installed a futon beneath his desk.
But New York's tight market for skilled start-up labor has produced an even more sophisticated arms race.
Take Squarespace, a Web publishing platform founded in 2004. On a recent Friday afternoon, employees sat serenely in the firm's SoHo offices, the room silent except for rapid keyboard clicks. A slim woman wearing her hair in a topknot ferried dishes of shrimp gumbo and quinoa salad to a buffet; midday meals for Squarespace employees are prepared four days a week. (On the fifth day, they order out.) Gluten-free and vegetarian options are offered at each meal, as well as a fridge stocked with Tecate and Red Bull.
On another morning at Tumblr headquarters on East 21st Street, a young man in futuristic shoes poured a glass of seltzer (it's on tap) and sat down to breakfast: a plate piled with bacon. His co-workers nibbled at pastries, sipped high-end coffee and rooted around the fridge for their favorite flavor of Chobani yogurt. Greek yogurt, in fact, is one of the most popular start-up perks.
''It's eaten almost as quickly as it's stocked,'' said Cyrus Massoumi, 36, the founder and chief executive of ZocDoc, an online medical scheduling service. ''I'm partial to Siggi's Skyr, myself.''
The free lunches and self-replenishing pantries of New York's start-ups can occasionally bring to mind Cockaigne, the mythical medieval land where cakes grew on trees, meat pies rained from the sky and fish leaped from rivers to roast themselves and fly directly into waiting mouths. In one 13th-century French epic poem, ''Huon de Bordeaux,'' a paradisiacal river restores health and youth to all who drink from it. Today's version? Coconut water.
''For a treat-loving man such as myself, the office is a great environment,'' said Martin Mulkeen, 29, a senior editor at Birchbox on East 28th Street.
And let's not forget the basics.
''We have cold-brewed coffee at all times,'' said Dan Logan, 28, the director of product marketing at Bitly in the Union Square area. Bitly workers (''Bitizens,'' they call themselves) may also prepare beverages from the office's Jura Impressa X9 Platinum, which pumps out cappuccinos at the touch of a button. (The machines start at $6,495.)
''I was not a coffee drinker at all before I started StyleUp,'' said Kendall Herbst, 29, a former Lucky magazine editor who co-founded the personal styling service. ''Now it's my lifeblood.''
As many employees noted, New Yorkers are picky about their coffee, so office managers can forget about throwing a can of Folgers in the freezer and calling it a day. Perhaps the most popular provider is Stumptown Coffee Roasters from Portland, Ore., whose Hair Bender blend can be found in many start-up pantries. As Mr. Logan put it, ''You got to have good brew.''
That includes alcohol. Artsy, an art appreciation platform, hosts a weekly happy hour in its Chinatown office that features 360-degree views of Manhattan (and beer on tap). Birchbox keeps its fridge supplied with Champagne for celebrations, and Tumblr also offers beer on tap (this week: an aromatic, malty I.P.A.). But when it comes to spirits, the lifestyle publication Thrillist reigns supreme, with two fully stocked bars and a rotating schedule of liquor tastings.
''Whiskey, tequila: it's always available,'' said Devon Giddon, 27, the company's director of communications. ''Not to mention the kegerator.''
The what? ''It's a keg in the fridge, so it's always cold.''
With start-ups subsidizing round-the-clock snacking and drinking, it's easy to pack on weight. Rather than institute a dress code of elastic-waist pants, many companies offer free gym memberships, yoga classes and group SoulCycle outings to keep employees in fighting form. Birchbox has a mini-gym inside the office.
''We have random hula-hooping sessions,'' said Melissa Enbar, 29, the company's director of recruiting. Multitaskers at Squarespace can choose to work from ErgoErgo chairs if they wish; shaped like giant fusilli pasta tubes, the seats supposedly engage core muscles while users write JavaScript and tweet.
For those immune to the temptations of a Michael Phelps-style caloric regimen, other distractions are available. Spotify hands out free concert tickets and treats employees to performances from artists like Sheryl Crow, while Chartbeat workers play with office puppies in the puppytorium (also known as the back room). Birchbox employees can sign up to get manicures and haircuts in the office.
''We try to facilitate an environment where employees feel really comfortable,'' said Andrew Burke, 28, the head of talent development at Squarespace. ''It pays off in terms of the work that is done and the results that happen.''
But the escalation of perks can lead to sticky situations.
''Once you set a precedent, it can be difficult to take things away,'' said Mr. Burke, citing an iTunes account that allowed Squarespace employees to guest-D.J. the office music. Trouble arose when employees began to play ''random stuff that wasn't necessarily on par with how others were vibing.'' The account was disabled.
Unlimited vacation, which most of the start-ups in this article offer, also provides a clear opportunity to overindulge, though no employer seemed to have a problem with it -- perhaps because daily life in their offices has much in common with an all-inclusive resort.
And not surprisingly, employees are quick to defend their perks.
''I don't think having beer at the office is decadent,'' said Mr. Mulkeen of Birchbox. Other employees made a convincing case that they spend more time at work thanks to the ambient luxuries.
And some even display ''perks envy.''
''I've heard that one company has Juice Press juices in their communal fridge that you can take,'' said Ms. Herbst of StyleUp, her voice wistful. ''That's quite a nice perk that I would love to have.'' (A 17-ounce bottle of the company's juice runs about $9.)
Mr. Burke of Squarespace said: ''I heard that one place pays for someone to clean your apartment. The more we see companies escalating with perks, the more we'll hear about things that seem outrageous.''
Mr. Bushnell of Atari, a veteran of the start-up world, was asked where he draws the line between ''productive perk'' and ''wanton decadence.'' His answer: Well, he doesn't.
''I've often felt that it is somehow wrong to have an engineer spend any time at all scrubbing his own toilet,'' he said. ''It sounds elitist, but these people are highly important to the economy and to the company. Offering maid service to them as a perk makes total sense.''
Katia Beauchamp, 30, a Birchbox founder, had a different perspective.
''I often think of the analogy between this and being a parent,'' she said. ''You want to give people every opportunity, but sometimes you make a decision to hold back because you know it's better not to have a spoiled child.''
For me, the lesson quickly sank in. As much as I enjoyed vacuuming up cookies, I couldn't afford to outgrow all of my new work clothes. Since then, I've kept a lid on my treat consumption. If I fail, a company-subsidized gym membership awaits me.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Lunch is served at the SoHo office of Squarespace four days a week. Making employees comfortable pays off in the long run, many small tech companies say.
 Happy hour is a weekly event at Artsy, an art appreciation platform in Chinatown. Beer on tap, high-end coffee and lots of yogurt are offered at other start-ups. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BENJAMIN NORMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BREASTFEEDING (87%); MEAT FREE DIETS (78%); BAKED GOODS (76%); BAKERIES (71%); OPHTHALMIC GOODS (67%); OPHTHALMIC GOODS MFG (67%); PUBLISHING (64%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (64%); DRY CLEANERS & LAUNDRIES (51%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: ORACLE AMERICA INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (55%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (55%)

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2013



633 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1578 words

HEADLINE: Going Toe-to-Toe in Stilettos

BYLINE: By ERIC WILSON

 BODY:
The shoe department of Bergdorf Goodman, on the morning of May 29, looked like ''an insane asylum of very well-dressed women,'' said Sasha Charnin Morrison, the fashion director of Us Weekly, who was reporting from the front lines of what has become an annual rite of spring in Manhattan: the first day of the designer shoe sale.
In one room of the sprawling, glittering, intoxicating Shangri-La of shoes that begins at the top of the escalator on the second floor, were the smaller sizes: Manolo Blahnik pumps made of shiny turquoise patent leather ($322, down from $645); piles of citron and mint Lanvin leather ballerina flats ($247, from $495); and surreal pink pumps covered in blue crystals from Giuseppi Zanotti ($1,097, from $2,195). In another room were similarly decadent displays in larger sizes, beckoning from the racks like abandoned puppies.
''You know the way that men lose their minds when they look at cars?'' Ms. Charnin Morrison said. ''It was the same thing. You had every major brand on sale. Everybody lost their minds. The prices are insane, and yet I could tell you a million reasons why they are justified.'' 
The designer shoe industry, to some extent, relies on the willful suspension of rational thinking, the giving over to a more primal urge (to shop, that is) in order to move merchandise that common sense would suggest is patently, obscenely, even self-destructively overpriced.
Shoes are an especially fetishized subject in fashion, but it is only since the late 1990s, not coincidentally at the start of the television series ''Sex and the City,'' that they have become what they are today, with warring retailers, an influx of new players on the battleground each season, and very little price resistance demonstrated by consumers, even when the market has all the characteristics of another fashion bubble.
Here, a pair of raspberry suede espadrilles, among the most basic styles available at a luxury store like Bergdorf, can cost $495. The soles may be mere rope, but they're Jimmy Choo, after all. Prices for pumps now commonly range from $600 to $1,400, and boots can cost $2,000 or more. At the top of the hierarchy of luxury footwear designers, Christian Louboutin makes a Lady Spiked Leopard-Print Platform Pump with a 5 3/4-inch heel for $1,595. Versions of his shoes in exotic skins, like crocodile, can cost as much as $4,645, which, it is strange to say, is anything but exceptional in this world.
For luxury retailers, expensive shoes have become a lucrative business, among the most profitable at Saks Fifth Avenue, for example. At Barneys New York, sales of shoes are three to four times higher per square foot than in any other department. The average purchase in the shoe department there is about $850, among the highest in the city.
While designer apparel may not have fully recovered from the shock of the recession, shoes have proved far more resilient, because they offer more perceived value to a customer than a designer dress that she might wear only a few times.
''Women have figured out quickly that shoes are a less expensive way of updating your wardrobe,'' said Bonnie Takhar, the president of Charlotte Olympia, which makes exceedingly playful shoes like a wedge sandal designed to look like a wicker picnic basket ($1,995). ''Plus they make you look taller.''
So it is not surprising that shoe salons in Manhattan's fanciest stores have expanded at a breakneck pace over the last five years, or that the battle to become the ultimate showplace for shoes has gone global. Macy's in New York, with its 39,000-square-foot shoe department introduced last year, has claimed the title of ''world's largest'' from competitors like Galeries Lafayette in Paris and Selfridges in London. Saks, Barneys and Bergdorf, meanwhile, face the potential of yet another competitor in the next decade once Nordstrom, well-known for the breadth and service of its shoe departments, realizes its plan to open a store on West 57th Street.
In the shoe wars, the question is just how big they need to be to win, without risking casualties.
''WE ALL SIT AROUND and talk about the price of shoes,'' said Ronald Frasch, the president and chief merchandising officer of Saks. But prices of everything in designer fashion, from handbags to men's suits to swimwear to shorts, have increased so precipitously over the last decade that a pair of shoes can seem more justifiable when compared to a pair of equally expensive pants.
In 2007, when Saks introduced a footwear department on its eighth floor so big that the store, in a clever marketing move, gave it its own vanity ZIP code, 10022-SHOE, it set off what would ultimately become the great shoe wars of retail. Barneys introduced its floor-wide shoe department last year, with shoes displayed in large gilded cages and copious cushy seating, drawing comparisons to Saks. And now Bergdorf Goodman has announced plans to expand its department by 20 percent this fall.
The stores are just as competitive about carrying the top designers, like Mr. Louboutin, who, upon his 20th anniversary in 2011, was feted with a star-studded dinner by Barneys and then a blowout store party by Bergdorf.
Last week, Saks raised the bar again, opening a 1,600-square-foot shop dedicated to Mr. Louboutin, incorporating his handbags and signature store designs, the first of its kind. Next, Saks plans to open an accessories department for Alexander McQueen in the same area.
''Quite frankly, we felt the need to take it another step,'' Mr. Frasch said.
At Barneys, the strategy has been to bring more exclusive new labels, or products designed just for the store, which now account for a third of its department, said Daniella Vitale, the chief operating officer of the store.
One successful example has been Marsèll, a collection of androgynous slip-ons that cost around $665, which has shot up to a $1 million business for the store in a year. Barneys is also sensitive to price, Ms. Vitale said, but exclusivity is a strong selling point. A pair of Azzedine Alaïa sandals may cost $1,400, she said, ''but at the end of the day, we are selling out of them.''
Joshua Schulman, the president of Bergdorf, said that the growth of designer shoes is as much a societal trend as men becoming more interested in fashion. (The store is expanding, by the way, to include men's shoes from Mr. Blahnik, Mr. Louboutin, Tom Ford and Berluti.)
''Personally, I don't have any concern that this phenomenon is going to go away anytime soon,'' Mr. Schulman said.
THE COMPETITION to stand out among designers today is fierce, said Charlotte Olympia Dellal, the chief executive of Charlotte Olympia, because newer companies have to fight for the same factory space as the big brands. Tabitha Simmons, whose ultracool style has made her a shoe star, said that starting out, she had to be on top of her business and production ''30 hours a day.''
Last year, Ms. Dellal ranked No. 57 on the closely watched list of 100 power players published by Footwear News, which gives some idea of the scale and importance of the designers included on the list. Mr. Louboutin was the highest ranked designer at No. 3, behind the Nordstrom family and Phil Knight of Nike. Mr. Blahnik was No. 12.
Mr. Louboutin and Mr. Blahnik have waged battle for more than a decade. Mr. Louboutin charges $600 to $800 for many of his signature red-sole styles, but his over-the-top designs cost much more. In a perverse twist, a classic ladylike pair of pumps from Mr. Blahnik, the exemplar of luxury footwear who was made a household name by ''Sex and the City,'' are now, at $595, priced at the lower end of the market.
''It is more expensive to make shoes now,'' Mr. Louboutin said last week from his studio in Paris. ''And it's for a very boring reason.''
Since the introduction of the euro and its subsequent strength against the dollar, the cost of producing shoes in Europe has increased substantially. More recently, facing competition from Asian factories for quality materials, some luxury houses are buying their own tanneries. ''Now, there is a gap of raw materials and leather, which puts the prices up very high,'' Mr. Louboutin said, adding that his costs have doubled within five years.
But Mr. Blahnik has held firm on prices for at least three seasons. The company is having a resurgence, said George Malkemus, its president, partly because of renewed interest in the single-sole shoe, which is Mr. Blahnik's signature, and partly because the price of a classic BB pump, $595, might seem more reasonable.
Neiman Marcus recently introduced a made-to-order boutique for Mr. Blahnik's BB pump, offering five different heel heights and 20 colors (if you count leopard as a color). And going full circle, Mr. Malkemus is starting a separate shoe business with Ms. Parker, with prices in the $200 to $400 range, that will be sold exclusively at Nordstrom beginning in February.
Although Blahnik offers some embellished styles that cost more than $1,000, Mr. Malkemus said that prices of shoes have generally gotten ''out of whack.'' Of course, the risk is that customers will associate higher prices with better shoes.
''Not if you know quality shoes,'' Mr. Malkemus said, affecting a garmento accent. ''I'm a bar-gain. What ultimately hurts a lot of these young people, including some very talented designers, is when a shoe costs $1,400.
''A customer might like what they see,'' he said, ''and then she turns the shoe over, looks at the price and walks away.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The 1,600-square-foot Christian Louboutin boutique inside the shoe department at Saks Fifth Avenue. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DONNA ALBERICO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (E7) DRAWING (DRAWING BY MARC ROSENTHAL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOE STORES (90%); FOOTWEAR (89%); LUXURY GOODS (89%); FASHION & APPAREL (89%); RETAILERS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%)

COMPANY: SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (50%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2013



634 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 926 words

HEADLINE: Why India Trails China

BYLINE: By AMARTYA SEN. 
Amartya Sen, a Nobel laureate, is a professor of economics and philosophy at Harvard. He is the author, with Jean Drèze, of ''An Uncertain Glory: India and its Contradictions.''

 BODY:
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. -- MODERN India is, in many ways, a success. Its claim to be the world's largest democracy is not hollow. Its media is vibrant and free; Indians buy more newspapers every day than any other nation. Since independence in 1947, life expectancy at birth has more than doubled, to 66 years from 32, and per-capita income (adjusted for inflation) has grown fivefold. In recent decades, reforms pushed up the country's once sluggish growth rate to around 8 percent per year, before it fell back a couple of percentage points over the last two years. For years, India's economic growth rate ranked second among the world's large economies, after China, which it has consistently trailed by at least one percentage point.
The hope that India might overtake China one day in economic growth now seems a distant one. But that comparison is not what should worry Indians most. The far greater gap between India and China is in the provision of essential public services -- a failing that depresses living standards and is a persistent drag on growth. 
Inequality is high in both countries, but China has done far more than India to raise life expectancy, expand general education and secure health care for its people. India has elite schools of varying degrees of excellence for the privileged, but among all Indians 7 or older, nearly one in every five males and one in every three females are illiterate. And most schools are of low quality; less than half the children can divide 20 by 5, even after four years of schooling.
India may be the world's largest producer of generic medicine, but its health care system is an unregulated mess. The poor have to rely on low-quality -- and sometimes exploitative -- private medical care, because there isn't enough decent public care. While China devotes 2.7 percent of its gross domestic product to government spending on health care, India allots 1.2 percent.
India's underperformance can be traced to a failure to learn from the examples of so-called Asian economic development, in which rapid expansion of human capability is both a goal in itself and an integral element in achieving rapid growth. Japan pioneered that approach, starting after the Meiji Restoration in 1868, when it resolved to achieve a fully literate society within a few decades. As Kido Takayoshi, a leader of that reform, explained: ''Our people are no different from the Americans or Europeans of today; it is all a matter of education or lack of education.'' Through investments in education and health care, Japan simultaneously enhanced living standards and labor productivity -- the government collaborating with the market.
Despite the catastrophe of Japan's war years, the lessons of its development experience remained and were followed, in the postwar period, by South Korea, Taiwan, Singapore and other economies in East Asia. China, which during the Mao era made advances in land reform and basic education and health care, embarked on market reforms in the early 1980s; its huge success changed the shape of the world economy. India has paid inadequate attention to these lessons.
Is there a conundrum here that democratic India has done worse than China in educating its citizens and improving their health? Perhaps, but the puzzle need not be a brainteaser. Democratic participation, free expression and rule of law are largely realities in India, and still largely aspirations in China. India has not had a famine since independence, while China had the largest famine in recorded history, from 1958 to 1961, when Mao's disastrous Great Leap Forward killed some 30 million people. Nevertheless, using democratic means to remedy endemic problems -- chronic undernourishment, a disorganized medical system or dysfunctional school systems -- demands sustained deliberation, political engagement, media coverage, popular pressure. In short, more democratic process, not less.
In China, decision making takes place at the top. The country's leaders are skeptical, if not hostile, with regard to the value of multiparty democracy, but they have been strongly committed to eliminating hunger, illiteracy and medical neglect, and that is enormously to their credit.
There are inevitable fragilities in a nondemocratic system because mistakes are hard to correct. Dissent is dangerous. There is little recourse for victims of injustice. Edicts like the one-child policy can be very harsh. Still, China's present leaders have used the basic approach of accelerating development by expanding human capability with great decisiveness and skill.
The case for combating debilitating inequality in India is not only a matter of social justice. Unlike India, China did not miss the huge lesson of Asian economic development, about the economic returns that come from bettering human lives, especially at the bottom of the socioeconomic pyramid. India's growth and its earnings from exports have tended to depend narrowly on a few sectors, like information technology, pharmaceuticals and specialized auto parts, many of which rely on the role of highly trained personnel from the well-educated classes. For India to match China in its range of manufacturing capacity -- its ability to produce gadgets of almost every kind, with increasing use of technology and better quality control -- it needs a better-educated and healthier labor force at all levels of society. What it needs most is more knowledge and public discussion about the nature and the huge extent of inequality and its damaging consequences, including for economic growth.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MSDMNYC) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMERGING MARKETS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (89%); LIVING STANDARDS (89%); HEALTH CARE (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); CHILDREN (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (76%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (70%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (64%); PRODUCTIVITY (61%); GENERIC DRUGS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) INDIA (99%); CHINA (96%); JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2013



635 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 900 words

HEADLINE: Steal This Idea, A Campaign Urges

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
USUALLY, the people who sponsor or create advertising campaigns are loath to see anyone borrow, lift or otherwise copy their ideas. A new effort, however, is intended to encourage such inspirational appropriation.
The goal of the initiative, called Creative for Good, is to make it easier to produce effective public service advertising campaigns on issues like health, education and the environment. Creative for Good is being introduced by the World Economic Forum in collaboration with two partners: the Advertising Council, the nonprofit organization that oversees the creation, production and distribution of public service campaigns in the United States, and Ketchum, a public relations and marketing communications agency that is part of the Omnicom Group.
Executives from the three groups plan to outline the initiative -- described as ''using the power of creativity and media to spark social change'' -- in a panel discussion Friday morning at the 60th Cannes Lion International Festival of Creativity in Cannes, France. 
The centerpiece of the initiative is a Web site, creative-for-good.org, that is to serve as an online resource for smaller organizations around the world that do not have the wherewithal or experience to develop public service campaigns of their own. The Web site will offer examples of ads that have already run and accomplished their goals, whether to encourage Belgians to stop smoking, discourage South Africans from stealing electricity, urge Vietnamese mothers to breast-feed their babies or stimulate organ and tissue donations in Italy.
The initiative begins with more than 60 public service campaigns available for perusal on the Web site, along with information, in case-study format, in areas like research, strategy, creative approach, media plans, results, conclusions and recommendations. (Those considering use of the campaigns will be encouraged to adapt them for their local markets rather than adopt them as they are.)
Plans call for adding more campaigns to the Web site, among them public service ads that win awards at the Cannes festival. Coincidentally, one of the biggest winners so far this week at the festival has been ''Dumb Ways to Die,'' a public service campaign to promote rail safety from Metro Trains in Melbourne, Australia, which was created by the Melbourne office of McCann Erickson Worldwide.
The Creative for Good initiative is indicative of the growing interest in the power of public service advertising -- also known as social advertising or pro-social advertising -- to help affect or change behavior in realms outside the purview of traditional advertising, which seeks to shape shopping or buying habits.
Although many perceive advertising as ''an industry that promotes consumerism, that pushes people to buy things they cannot afford,'' Diana El-Azar, director for media, entertainment and information industries at the World Economic Forum in Geneva, said in a phone interview, ''communications could also be a hugely positive force in influencing people's behavior.''
The initiative has been in the works for more than two years, Ms. El-Azar said, and was inspired by other attempts at the forum to ''share best practices.'' She attributed the concept to two members of a forum committee called the Global Agenda Council on the Future of Media: Peggy Conlon, president and chief executive at the Advertising Council, and David Gallagher, chief executive for European operations and chairman of the London office of Ketchum.
''It was clear there was a huge appetite among organizations and charities to find strategies to engage the public,'' Mr. Gallagher said. ''We want to develop this into a treasure chest and hope it becomes a catalyst for change.''
Ms. Conlon said those involved in the initiative ''don't have the resources to police'' potential misuse of the ads on the Web site for commercial products or profit-making purposes. But they are not worried about that, she added, because ''it becomes a self-healing platform'' -- that is, people who discover anyone trying to misappropriate the campaign materials are likely to use social media to blow the whistle on the miscreants.
The leaders of organizations whose campaigns have been selected for inclusion on the Web site say they are elated.
''I can only see good coming from this,'' said Liz Feld, president of Autism Speaks in New York, whose public service campaigns are created through the Advertising Council by BBDO New York.
''Autism is a global public health crisis,'' she added, and ''more than half the people who visit our Web site are from outside the U.S.''
Yulia Koval-Molodtsova, deputy head and international project director at the Laboratory for Social Advertising in Moscow -- which produced an H.I.V.-AIDS prevention campaign carrying the theme ''What would you do in this situation?'' -- praised the Campaign for Good Web site as ''a database that will make good-quality campaigns more accessible'' to ''people who don't have a chance to travel to advertising festivals.''
Ms. Koval-Molodtsova said she believed that ''social advertising is more difficult than advertising for products and services'' because ''you're selling values.''
As a result, she added, such campaigns ought to provide ''a supportive message'' rather than rely on scare tactics, assuring the targets of the ads that ''there is always a way out, there is always help out there.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Web site for Creative for Good features a host of effective public service campaigns available to be copied by others. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); PUBLIC SERVICE ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); SPONSORSHIP (90%); FESTIVALS (88%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (72%); WEB SITES (72%); CASE STUDIES (72%); SMOKING (71%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (67%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (65%); BREASTFEEDING (64%); INTERVIEWS (61%); TRAINS (60%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (50%); ORGAN DONATION (50%)

COMPANY: OMNICOM GROUP INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (57%); ADVERTISING COUNCIL (57%)

TICKER: OMC (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA (90%) VICTORIA, AUSTRALIA (66%) AUSTRALIA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (57%); SWITZERLAND (50%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2013



636 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: Cuomo and Top Lawmakers Back November Referendum on Adding Casinos

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY and THOMAS KAPLAN

 BODY:
ALBANY -- Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo and legislative leaders have agreed to ask voters in November to amend the State Constitution to allow a significant expansion of casino gambling.
Although voters would be asked to authorize as many as seven new casinos, the governor and legislators said they would also approve a law allowing, at least for the next seven years, only four, located in the Catskills, the Albany area and the Southern Tier region along the border with Pennsylvania.
If voters approve the constitutional amendment, New York would become the most populous state in the nation with full-scale Las Vegas-style casinos with table games like craps and roulette. New York already has five upstate casinos owned by Indian tribes, and as well as nine racetracks with electronic gambling, also known as racinos. The new casinos would not be near the tribal casinos or in New York City and its suburbs. 
On Wednesday, Mr. Cuomo called casinos a critical part of a larger effort to revitalize the economies of long-suffering upstate regions, along with tax-free zones at state universities and a financial restructuring board. He said the casino legislation was ''about gaming, and gaming is about tourism, and tourism is about jobs.''
But the referendum is far from a sure thing. A Quinnipiac University poll earlier this month showed that 48 percent of New York voters favored amending the Constitution to allow expanded casino gambling. Support was even weaker in New York City, a dynamic that poses a potential challenge to supporters of expanded gambling because the mayoral race is expected to mean higher turnout in the city than in other parts of the state.
''It's pretty much a standoff,'' said Maurice Carroll, the director of the Quinnipiac University Polling Institute.
Businesses and organizations with strong interests in gambling have been spending millions on lobbying and political contributions in Albany to influence lawmakers on whether to reject or accept the expansion. According to an analysis by the New York Public Interest Research Group, a government watchdog group, these groups with gambling interests have given nearly $2 million to statewide campaign committees, candidates and parties.
One of those donors is Genting New York, which runs a successful slot parlor at the Aqueduct racetrack in Queens. Genting has donated more than $125,000 to dozens of Republican and Democratic candidates since the 2010 election. The new casino deal would effectively ensure the company's monopoly in the borough for at least seven years, and on Wednesday, the company said it fully supported ''the governor's goals of upstate job creation and economic development outlined in the proposal.''
Mr. Cuomo has also seemingly neutralized some of the potential in-state opposition, in part by striking three recent deals with Indian tribes to settle long-simmering contract disputes and other issues. Those tribes, which received geographic exclusivity for their gambling operations, could have been potent financial backers of a ''no'' campaign.
Another potential opponent -- the New York Gaming Association, which represents the state's racinos -- indicated that the proposal was ''a great improvement'' after the governor and leaders made several changes to protect the racetracks, the association's president, James Featherstonehaugh, said.
A casino referendum would quite likely be opposed by some religious groups and people who oppose gambling as a form of regressive taxation and possibly by the operators of casinos in neighboring states who fear competition from expanded casino gambling in New York. Dennis Poust, a spokesman for the New York State Catholic Conference, said on Wednesday that the state's bishops were concerned about the impact of compulsive gambling, as well as social ills ''associated with casinos, like crime and prostitution.''
The casino bill, introduced late on Tuesday and announced on Wednesday, would also permit 2,000 new video lottery terminals -- similar to slot machines -- at off-track-betting parlors in Nassau and Suffolk Counties, a plan backed by Dean G. Skelos, the Long Island Republican who shares leadership of the State Senate with a group of breakaway Democrats.
The casino issue was not the only one being settled during the last days of the legislative session. Late on Tuesday, the governor split his 10-point Women's Equality Act, which includes a measure strengthening the state's guarantee of abortion rights, into 10 stand-alone bills after previously insisting that all 10 points be included in a single piece of legislation.
Mr. Cuomo said on Wednesday that he did not want lawmakers to be able to cite procedural reasons for skipping a vote.
''If they don't vote, it's because they don't want to vote,'' he said, ''and a nonvote is a no vote.''
Mr. Cuomo, anticipating lawmakers would not take up his proposals to address corruption in the Legislature, also said on Wednesday that he would name a commission to investigate campaign fund-raising by state elected officials.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo said on Wednesday that the move on casinos was ''about gaming, and gaming is about tourism, and tourism is about jobs.'' A constitutional amendment is required. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS/ THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASINOS (95%); GAMING (92%); REFERENDUMS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (88%); LEGISLATION (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LOBBYING (78%); APPROVALS (77%); MAYORS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (74%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); CITY LIFE (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); JOB CREATION (71%); MOUNTAINS (71%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (67%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2013



637 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1021 words

HEADLINE: Reception for Obama Is More Sober Than in 2008

BYLINE: By ALISON SMALE

 BODY:
BERLIN -- The last time President Obama paid a visit here, as a candidate in 2008, he was cheered on by 200,000 Germans eager to see the back of George W. Bush and, as one member of that crowd recalled Tuesday, ''full of wholly unrealistic expectations of what kind of miracles Obama could work.''
When he arrived here on Tuesday evening ahead of a full day of talks -- capped by a speech at the Brandenburg Gate -- the reception was far more restrained. 
Almost five years later, Germans have undergone ''a brutal sobering up'' with regard to Mr. Obama, said Ralf Fücks, who heads the board of the Heinrich Böll Foundation, a nonprofit political organization in Berlin. It is, he said, as overdone as the euphoria of 2008, but also a bit alarming.
Mr. Fücks and other Germans say there are several reasons for the change in attitude. The most commonly cited: the president's inability to close the prison at Guantánamo Bay, continued killings by American drones and, most recently, the disclosure of an extensive program for surveillance of foreigners.
Experts also point to the limitations on the power of an American president and on a country like Germany, which is the dominant European power but whose 20th-century history makes it awkward for it to take a leadership role or guide the Continent out of its economic doldrums.
''The American president would like to remind the Germans of the crisis, and what the consequences are if we keep sitting on our hands,'' said Henning Riecke of the German Council on Foreign Relations.
Mr. Fücks noted the ''permanent state of crisis'' in the world economy and politics since Mr. Obama took office in January 2009. When there is ''constant pressure to act,'' he said, it is harder for a president -- or, for that matter, his host, Chancellor Angela Merkel -- to shape events and lay down guidelines for sweeping action.
On a broiling Wednesday, Berlin was unusually calm, with tourists and residents alike seeking welcome shade and apparently heeding the authorities' pleas to avoid the center of town, heavily cordoned off in advance of the Brandenburg Gate speech. Offering a classic welcome from this history-scarred city to an American leader, the daily Berliner Morgenpost carried a front-page photo of the president, his wife and his daughters descending from Air Force One on Tuesday night below the English language headline ''Welcome to Berlin, first family!''
Bild, the country's biggest circulation newspaper, used the visit to make a political point, saying that Mr. Obama should use the occasion to make a public appeal to Berlin's mayor -- who will open the Brandenburg Gate event -- to finally finish Berlin's third airport, which has been mired in dispute, delay and cost overruns. And the daily Die Tageszeitung ran a headline in English with a photo of the American prison at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba, saying, ''Mr. Obama, Open This Gate'' in a reference to Ronald Reagan's challenge in 1987 to the Soviet leader Mikhail S. Gorbachev to tear down the Berlin Wall.
Daniel Hamilton, director of the Center for trans-Atlantic Relations at the School of Advanced International Studies at Johns Hopkins, said Americans and Europeans tended these days to roll their eyes at each other and lament the paralysis of the other side. Dr. Hamilton, who has spent the past seven weeks in Europe, echoed other commentators in noting that the agreement to open talks on a far-reaching trade deal -- one that would create a huge market operating on the same rules -- represents the best way for Americans and Europeans to put their closeness on a new footing.
To judge from interviews with Berliners, though, there is little interest in or understanding of the complex trade talks, which are just starting. Rather, the data surveillance scandal has fired the popular imagination here, guaranteeing that Ms. Merkel, up for re-election in September, will raise the matter with Mr. Obama.
It is not as if Internet users outside the United States did not know that their digital movements might be watched, said Patrick Conley, 47, a media historian who lives in Berlin. ''But you know it more exactly now,'' he said. ''In foreign policy terms, it is a catastrophe.''
That is particularly so in Germany, where state snooping was a dominant feature of the Nazi and Communist regimes. News that Facebook, which attracted 51 percent of German Internet users last year, according to the industry group Bitkom, had given up data to Washington's surveillance program was a special shock here.
Mr. Conley was in the crowd for Mr. Obama in 2008. While he remembers the jubilation close to the speaker's podium at the Victory Column, security forced him and his friends to sit in the surrounding park, far from the candidate, whom they watched on video screens.
The speech might have been electrifying close up, Mr. Conley said, but people near him drifted away before it finished. ''We noticed that it was written not so much for Germans as for voters back home in Ohio,'' he said.
Nonetheless, he and the same friends discussed going to hear Mr. Obama again on Wednesday, and were disappointed to discover that this time it was an invitation-only affair for about 5,000 people. ''That is a shame,'' Mr. Conley said.
Walther Stützle, a former editor of the newspaper Der Tagesspiegel, recalled the June day 50 years ago when tens of thousands thronged the Schöneberg district of West Berlin to hear President John F. Kennedy speak. There ''was no security madness like today,'' he said.
Onlookers, who idolized the young president, moved freely, Mr. Stützle said. And, he stressed, it was not just the Schöneberg speech -- in which Mr. Kennedy memorably uttered, ''Ich bin ein Berliner'' -- that impressed people. His second speech at the Free University of Berlin persuaded Berliners that he was a shrewd judge of what the Soviets were willing to risk in the city where communism and capitalism directly confronted each other.
That cold war context makes a comparison between the Kennedy and Obama visits impossible, Mr. Stützle said. ''The threat of war today is in the Middle East,'' he noted, ''not in Berlin.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); POLITICS (89%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (78%); MAYORS (78%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (69%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (63%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%); ANGELA MERKEL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (97%) GERMANY (97%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2013



638 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1029 words

HEADLINE: The Glory and Brutality Of a Purebred Texan Clan

BYLINE: By JANET MASLIN

 BODY:
THE SONBy Philipp Meyer
561 pages. Ecco. $27.99.
The words of Edward Gibbon bookend Philipp Meyer's novel ''The Son,'' a luxuriantly big book that tells a very Texan story of decline and fall. Mr. Meyer opens with Gibbon's words about how the vicissitudes of fortune defeat the most magisterial human achievements. That the same quotation can be purchased on mouse pads and coffee cups does nothing if not affirm Gibbon's wisdom.
And right at the end, in a brutally sardonic touch, the last Indian chief who dies in this legitimately brutal book has stuffed his shield with pages from Gibbon's ''Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire.'' Of course they offer no protection at all. 
''The Son'' spans 200 years, six generations and a great many eloquently evoked downfalls. It concentrates on one proudly purebred American family, though the delusion of that heritage will die by the end of this story.
The family is the McCulloughs; its irascible patriarch, Armstrong, was born in 1811. The voice of his irascible son, Eli, known as the Colonel, is first heard during the Great Depression, when the W.P.A. recorded his memories of a sparsely populated Texas fought over by settlers, Mexicans and ''the aboriginals.'' Later McCulloughs will be happy to forget that Armstrong's mother, ''a Castilian of the old line,'' faced racial bigotry in those early days.
Eli is destined to be known by separate and very different names. Eli is 13 when, in a protracted, suspenseful episode, he is abducted by Comanches. The raid on the McCullough homestead is described by Mr. Meyer with this book's hallmark blend of understatement and unflinching clarity. Did Eli and his brother see what the Indians did to their sister and mother? ''A little,'' Eli says, in a way that conveys he saw it all and will live with it forever.
In some of the best sections of his vivid narrative, Mr. Meyer delineates the process of Eli's assimilation. Eli is one of the book's three narrators, and at first his sections are headed ''Eli McCullough.'' Later sections are called ''Eli/Tiehteti,'' a combination of his white and Comanche names. And years later, though we don't initially know how, he will evolve into a tyrant called the Colonel, whose prejudices are accepted by other McCulloughs as law. The most fascinating of many questions raised by ''The Son'' is how Eli, a dauntless little boy, grew from helplessness into absolute power.
Mr. Meyer, the author of ''American Rust,'' has told interviewers that Eli's part of ''The Son'' is not what came to him first. He began by writing about later generations, with Eli's story just a mythic part of their memories. Only later did he realize how vital these myths were to the changes in Texas culture, politics and economy; to the flowering and destruction of Indian warrior societies; to the strutting of latter-day Texans who made oil fortunes but mimicked the sartorial style of grunt-worker cowboys who herded livestock; and to the revisionist history embraced by Buffalo Bill Cody's audiences and readers of Bret Harte.
''The Son'' is much too intimate and immediate to let these big themes overshadow its more personal storytelling. The reader learns in riveting detail about Eli's Indian days. They are made that much more approachable by the book's profanity, which sounds anachronistic but certainly adds colloquial flourish.
Mr. Meyer enjoys citing Indian names too obscene for English translation. He clearly establishes the sexual conventions of Comanche life, with young women behaving as aggressors and young braves not always sure whose bodies are at hand on very dark nights. One very tough, much-cited passage from this book describes the precise details of buffalo slaughter and the harvesting of body parts. Mr. Meyer's research entailed tanning hides and drinking blood, just as his Comanche characters do.
''The Son'' is also narrated by Peter McCullough, Eli's morally conflicted, much weaker son, who is seared by early memories of a vicious McCullough-led raid on the family's prosperous Mexican neighbors. This shameful legacy is as important to this book as the glory days of the Comanches are. And though Peter's chapters lack the oomph of the stories that precede and follow, they convey the paralysis of a decent man trying hard to make sense of the violence that surrounds him. Peter is not up to that task, but his contribution to family lore becomes a major one.
A big Texas novel deserves a big, feisty heroine. So ''The Son'' gets Peter's granddaughter, Jeanne Anne. In brief New England scenes that are among the book's best, the adolescent Jeannie attends a snobbish boarding school, where she sees more grass than she will ever see on land that feeds livestock. And her patronizing schoolmates will learn that yes, there is a West big enough for one ranch family to have carved out a quarter of a million acres.
Jeannie also narrates the book as J. A. McCullough, an old woman on the verge of death. Alone, unable to move but also unable to keep her memories at bay, J. A. thinks back to her many years of running the McCullough empire. The grazing land became oil land until oil from the Middle East became a factor. And Jeannie, who was once told her best bet would be going to secretarial school, repudiates the condescension of men who find her too tough, suitors who don't like her frankness, children who seem to have left their Texan heritage entirely behind. By the end of the book, Mr. Meyer has sharply brought J. A. to terms with the difference between imaginary bloodlines and the real-world kind.
On one occasion in which J. A. McCullough is interviewed, she meets a famous female novelist whose Texas epic has been turned into a James Dean movie. The work is Edna Ferber's ''Giant,'' and Mr. Meyer treats it mockingly. No one ever seriously called ''Giant'' a Great American Novel. But some readers have been quick to affix that label to ''The Son.'' The greatest things about ''The Son'' are its scope and ambition, not its strictly literary mettle. It's an enveloping, extremely well-wrought, popular novel with passionate convictions about the people, places and battles that it conjures. That ought to be enough.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (C1)
 Philipp Meyer (C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); WRITERS (78%); RACE & RACISM (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2013



639 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1040 words

HEADLINE: Obama Readying Emissions Limits on Power Plants

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama is preparing regulations limiting carbon dioxide emissions from existing power plants, senior officials said Wednesday. The move would be the most consequential climate policy step he could take and one likely to provoke legal challenges from Republicans and some industries.
Electric power plants are the largest single source of global warming pollution in the country, responsible for nearly 40 percent of greenhouse gas emissions. With sweeping climate legislation effectively dead in Congress, the decision on existing power plants -- which a 2007 Supreme Court decision gave to the executive branch -- has been among the most closely watched of Mr. Obama's second term. 
The administration has already begun steps to restrict climate-altering emissions from any newly built power plants, but imposing carbon standards on the existing utility fleet would be vastly more costly and contentious.
The president is preparing to move soon because rules as complex as those applying to power plants can take years to complete. Experts say that if Mr. Obama hopes to have a new set of greenhouse gas standards for utilities in place before he leaves office he needs to begin before the end of this year.
Heather Zichal, the White House coordinator for energy and climate change, said Wednesday that the president would announce climate policy initiatives in coming weeks. Another official said a presidential address outlining the new policy, which will also include new initiatives on renewable power and energy efficiency, could come as early as next week.
Ms. Zichal said none of the initiatives being considered by the administration required legislative action or new financing from Congress.
In a speech in Berlin on Wednesday, Mr. Obama echoed his assertive talk on climate policy since his re-election, talk that some climate advocates have criticized as going beyond his actions. He said the United States and the world had a moral imperative to take ''bold action'' to slow the warming of the planet.
''The grim alternative affects all nations -- more severe storms, more famine and floods, new waves of refugees, coastlines that vanish, oceans that rise,'' Mr. Obama said. ''This is the global threat of our time.''
He added, ''We have to get to work.''
Republicans criticize Mr. Obama's climate policy as government overreach that is holding back the economy. Some Democrats, including those hawkish about climate action, also worry that tough new standards on power plants could slow job growth and raise energy costs, particularly in places like the industrial Midwest that depend on cheap power from coal.
But administration officials signaled that Mr. Obama had decided the risks from climate change outweighed the potential economic and political costs from taking steps to address it.
''He is serious about making it a second-term priority,'' Ms. Zichal said at a forum Wednesday in Washington sponsored by The New Republic magazine. ''He knows this is a legacy issue.''
Ms. Zichal suggested that a central part of the administration's approach to dealing with climate change would be to use the authority given to the Environmental Protection Agency to address climate-altering pollutants from power plants under the Clean Air Act.
''The E.P.A. has been working very hard on rules that focus specifically on greenhouse gases from the coal sector,'' she said. ''They're doing a lot of important work in that space.''
She did not specifically mention standards for existing power plants, but other senior officials have said in recent days that Mr. Obama has decided to start work on such regulations.
A 2007 Supreme Court decision gave the E.P.A. authority to regulate greenhouse gases, and it has already done so for vehicles. Environmental advocates said that addressing power plant pollution must be the centerpiece of any serious climate policy.
''To paraphrase Joe Biden, this is a big deal,'' said Daniel F. Becker, director of the Safe Climate Campaign, an advocacy organization. ''Nothing he can do will cut greenhouse gases more.''
Last year, the E.P.A. proposed greenhouse gas regulations for new power plants that would essentially ban the construction of any additional coal-fired plants. The administration was required to complete that regulation by mid-April, but it missed the deadline in a sign of the pitfalls of such complex rule making. The E.P.A. has not said when it expects to complete the rules.
The timing of the new policy on existing power plants is driven in large part by the timetables the Clean Air Act sets for a major rule-making. The law requires the agency to publish proposed guidelines. States are then required to submit plans for meeting the guidelines, which the agency must review and which the public must be allowed time to comment on.
''All of that takes time, and we're in a race against time,'' said Vickie Patton, general counsel at the Environmental Defense Fund.
Regulation of existing power plants is further complicated by the pending nomination of Gina McCarthy to become E.P.A. administrator. Ms. McCarthy has for the past four years run the agency's office responsible for enforcing the Clean Air Act.
Senate Republicans are holding up her nomination over unrelated issues. Republicans and industry leaders also worry about her intentions on power plant regulation. In a carefully worded statement, she told committee members during her confirmation proceedings that the agency ''is not currently developing'' any such regulations.
The administration has been quietly stitching together a suite of global warming policy measures for the president to unveil this summer to make good on promises in his election night acceptance speech, his second Inaugural address and his State of the Union address.
Denis McDonough, the White House chief of staff, and his deputy, Rob Nabors, have regularly met with cabinet secretaries and their deputies to adapt to a changing climate and to propose new measures that do not require Congressional action.
Mr. Obama's coming speech is also expected to highlight measures that the Department of Energy can take to make appliances and industrial equipment more efficient and to reduce the energy wasted in public and private buildings.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (93%); POWER PLANTS (92%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (77%); COASTAL AREAS (76%); POWER & COMMUNICATION SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (73%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (73%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (72%); WEATHER (72%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (71%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (71%); REFUGEES (63%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (62%); FAMINE (61%); APPEALS (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2013



640 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: Commotion Over the Sale of John Denver's Sanctuary

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
SNOWMASS, Colo. -- John Denver was a troubadour of Colorado, singing of clear skies and country roads, sunshine on his shoulder and Rocky Mountain highs.
Sixteen years after his light plane plunged into a California bay, Mr. Denver's music endures at bars and folk festivals, and one of his tunes is enshrined as a Colorado state song. But his other bequest, a love for conservation and the mountains, has become tangled in a dispute over money, real estate and emotional questions about how to preserve his legacy.
In the 1970s, Mr. Denver bought 957 acres of mountain valley and juniper hills as a stage for his utopian dreams. The land, perched about 15 miles north of Aspen, was once a potato farm, then a retreat for a Benedictine monastery. Mr. Denver named it Windstar, and set up a foundation there that ran summer camps and eclectic symposiums about the environment, community and saving the world. 
But everything fades. Without Mr. Denver, his Windstar Foundation straggled along for years as members fell away and its money and momentum dried up. Last autumn, the foundation's board voted to dissolve and decided to sell off the land where hundreds of people had once camped in tepees, cultivated experimental gardens, built biodomes and meditated under the stars.
The sale has left suspicions and hurt feelings that have bubbled up in letters to the editor in local newspapers and impassioned calls for explanation at public meetings.
Some people who had volunteered for the foundation said they knew nothing about the sale until it was announced in a news release in April. Others were critical of the secrecy surrounding the $8.5 million deal.
All this commotion has forced onetime leaders of Mr. Denver's foundation to defend their actions against accusations that they sold off a piece of his legacy to the highest bidder.
''I felt blindsided, stabbed in the back,'' said Mr. Denver's brother, Ron Deutschendorf, who had been president of the Windstar Foundation. ''It was like a piece of my heart had been sold off.''
But to whom? In a mountain community where real estate is both economic engine and gossip mill, the question of the buyer's identity has fueled intrigue.
''This thing happened so fast and so secretly,'' said Kevin Ward, who lives next to Windstar.
Officially, the land's new owner is a company called Five Valley Farm, a small private corporation created last December. The only name on file with the state appears to be that of a 24-year-old notary whose signature helped to create the business.
Neighbors say they believe the true buyer -- and the person behind Five Valley Farm -- is a billionaire oil developer from Texas named Jeffery Hildebrand, who owns a boutique ranch and a polo field on the other side of Mr. Denver's Windstar property.
Public records, first reported in The Aspen Daily News, suggest a link: One of Mr. Hildebrand's business associates is named in a document giving him authority to make decisions about Five Valley Farm and its newly acquired 957 acres of mountain land.
Representatives for Mr. Hildebrand did not respond to phone or e-mail messages, and officials who arranged the sale said they could not discuss the identity of Windstar's new owner, and did not know what the future might hold for the land.
But the people who helped coordinate the sale say this much: No matter who owns Windstar, or what it is called, the land will be protected forever.
In 1996, the Rocky Mountain Institute, a nonprofit energy-conservation group, bought a 50 percent stake in the Windstar land. The group worked to put in place a conservation easement to ensure that nearly all of the property would remain undeveloped. The agreement preserves all but 30 acres of the property and is in effect, essentially, forever.
''It's always going to be here,'' said Karmen Dopslaff, a longtime friend of Mr. Denver's and a board member of the Windstar Foundation who voted to wind down the group and go ahead with the sale.
The new owners of Windstar cannot stud the property with subdivisions, but they do have the right to build a luxury home on the 30 acres that are not set aside for preservation under the conservation agreement. That piece of the land lies closest to the road and now houses the Rocky Mountain Institute's headquarters. The institute is planning to move to the nearby town of Basalt.
The land will remain open to the public. But critics of the sale say they worry that Windstar's new owners will scrap a public parking lot at its entrance, making public access more difficult. And they say Mr. Denver would not have wanted a million-dollar home on land that had once been dedicated to solving the world's problems.
''It was his sanctuary,'' said Linda Luke, who moved to Colorado from Massachusetts after meeting Mr. Denver at a concert. She spent years volunteering for the foundation. ''It was where he found his peace and quiet. It was what he wanted everyone to be able to experience.''
Before Windstar was sold, Ms. Dopslaff said she and other members of the foundation consulted with Mr. Denver's close friends and a former wife whom he had stayed close to. Ms. Dopslaff said they all supported the sale. The foundation's $4 million share of the proceeds went straight to a charity in Aspen.
Marty Pickett, the executive director of the Rocky Mountain Institute, said the backlash was rooted in misunderstanding. But it seems to be as melancholy as angry, a reaction to losing a place that once exemplified Aspen's woolier hippie past. Eventually, officials said, they will have to remove the skeleton of a biodome on the site, and find a new home for a statue of Mr. Denver.
Michael Kinsley has spent some 40 years on the land, as an employee of the Rocky Mountain Institute and a friend of people involved with Mr. Denver's foundation. He approved of the sale and said he was not concerned about the future of the land. But he still felt a twinge at leaving.
''When it's cool and the shadows are long, I say, 'Oh God, I won't be here anymore,' '' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The 957 acres of Colorado land that was owned by the songwriter John Denver, to the left of the property line at top, was sold in an $8.5 million deal. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHAD SURMICK/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 MATTHEW STAVER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (89%); MOUNTAINS (89%); MUSIC (78%); FESTIVALS (77%); WILLS (76%); FOUNDATIONS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (68%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2013



641 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 676 words

HEADLINE: Europe Fines Drug Companies $195 Million for Delaying a Generic Antidepressant

BYLINE: By JAMES KANTER

 BODY:
BRUSSELS -- Europe's top antitrust enforcer continued a crackdown on drug company efforts to keep low-cost generic versions of their medicines off the market, a campaign that is taking place on both sides of the Atlantic.
On Wednesday, the European Commission fined a Danish pharmaceutical company and a number of generic producers a total of 146 million euros, or $195 million. 
The commission said that Lundbeck of Denmark colluded with companies like Ranbaxy of India and Merck of Germany in 2002 and 2003 to delay market entry of a less expensive generic version of a blockbuster antidepressant called citalopram. Joaquín Almunia, the European commissioner for competition, said that Lundbeck also destroyed significant quantities of the low-cost version of the drug.
''All this occurred at the expense of patients who were deprived of access to cheaper medicines,'' Mr. Almunia said at a news conference on Wednesday. ''It also harmed our public health systems, who for a longer period had to artificially bear the costs of an expensive medicine and one of the most widely prescribed antidepressants.'' Lundbeck said it had done nothing wrong and would appeal the decision. ''The company acted transparently and in good faith in trying to protect our patents,'' Lundbeck said in a statement. ''Upon entering the agreements, they were all reviewed by external antitrust experts.''
The case mirrors a decision on Monday by the United States Supreme Court, which empowers the Federal Trade Commission to sue drug makers that engage in so-called pay-for-delay tactics. The Supreme Court decision is likely to increase the number of generic drugs, in that way benefiting consumers. The F.T.C. said that pay-for-delay deals cost Americans $3.5 billion a year in higher drug prices.
Many European governments with socialized medical systems buy or help to pay for prescription drugs used by citizens, which means that the blocking of generics affects those nations' budgets. Mr. Almunia said that when generic versions of citalopram became available in Britain, during the second half of 2004, prices there dropped by 90 percent.
The scale of savings in Britain helped to ensure that ''public health systems can remain economically sustainable in these times of difficult budgetary constraints,'' Mr. Almunia said. Peter Kaplan, a Federal Trade Commission spokesman, would not comment on the European decision, but he indicated that officials had been coordinating on the issue of drug pricing. ''F.T.C. staffers have had productive policy discussions with their counterparts in the E.U. on the pay-for-delay issue, which is a longstanding enforcement priority at the F.T.C.,'' Mr. Kaplan said.
Similarly, European Union officials said their decision on Wednesday was not timed to follow the Supreme Court case.
Early this year, the commission accused the drug giants Johnson & Johnson and Novartis of colluding to delay the availability of a generic version of fentanyl, a drug often used to ease severe pain. A year ago, the commission accused the French pharmaceutical company Servier and competitors of delaying the generic entry of perindopril, a cardiovascular medicine. And in 2011, the commission opened an investigation into whether the American pharmaceutical company Cephalon and the generic maker Teva of Israel hindered the entry of the generic version of modafinil, used for the treatment of certain types of sleeping disorders.
Those cases still are pending.
In the Lundbeck case, Mr. Almunia's office said that various generic makers colluded with the Danish company, agreeing to not enter the market in return for ''substantial payments and other inducements from Lundbeck amounting to tens of millions of euros.'' Commission officials said that they had found documents referring to a '' 'club' being formed and 'a pile of $$$' to be shared among the participants.''
The European Commission fined Lundbeck 93.8 million euros, which amounts to roughly 4.6 percent of its 2012 sales. The regulator can fine companies as much as 10 percent of annual sales.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Joaquín Almunia, the European Union's antitrust commissioner, said patients were denied access to lower-cost medication. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YVES LOGGHE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (92%); GENERIC DRUGS (92%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); ANTIDEPRESSANTS (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (89%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (89%); DRUG PRICES (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); SUPREME COURTS (87%); APPEALS (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (77%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (73%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (72%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%)

COMPANY: H LUNDBECK AS (92%); RANBAXY LABORATORIES LTD (57%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (58%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (54%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (54%)

TICKER: LUN (CPH) (92%); LDB (FRA) (92%); RANBAXY (NSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (92%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (57%)

PERSON: JOAQUIN ALMUNIA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (89%) EUROPE (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); BELGIUM (92%); DENMARK (92%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2013



642 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1261 words

HEADLINE: Optimistic Fed Outlines End To Its Stimulus

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Federal Reserve, increasingly confident in the durability of economic growth, expects to start pulling back later this year from its efforts to stimulate the economy, the Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, said on Wednesday.
Mr. Bernanke, offering new details, said the central bank intends to scale down gradually its monthly purchases of Treasury securities and mortgage-backed bonds beginning later this year and ending when the unemployment rate hits 7 percent, which the Fed expects to happen by the middle of next year.
The central bank would then take several more years to unwind the rest of its extraordinary stimulus campaign, slowly raising short-term interest rates from essentially zero to more normal levels after the jobless rate has fallen to 6.5 percent or lower.
He emphasized, however, that the timing of the retreat depends on the health of the economy; if growth falters, the central bank would slow, or even reverse, the process. The expectations of Fed officials for the next several years, published Wednesday, are more optimistic than the consensus of private forecasters. 
Pulling back ''would basically say that we've had a relatively decent economic outcome in terms of sustained improvement in growth and unemployment,'' Mr. Bernanke said. ''If things are worse, we will do more. If things are better, we will do less.''
Mr. Bernanke's comments, which followed a two-day meeting of the Fed's policy-making committee, appeared to disappoint investors on Wall Street who had hoped that the central bank would do more for longer. Stocks fell, with the broad Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropping 1.39 percent; interest rates rose.
The impact on the economy will take longer to judge. The Fed's goal is to pull back as the economy gains strength so its departure is barely felt, like a parent who lets go of a bike at the moment a child is ready to ride. But the Fed has removed its hands too soon several times in recent years. On the other side of the equation, the central bank, at some point, runs the risk of pushing too hard for too long, which can also cause crashes.
Gennadiy Goldberg, an analyst at TD Securities, described the market's reaction as ''emblematic of the lumpy path toward normalization,'' illustrating the limits of the Fed's ability to control the way that the economy will respond to its retreat.
The housing market is an example. The Fed, deciding last year that it needed to do more, began to buy mortgage bonds in an effort to drive down borrowing costs. The lower rates spurred a wave of refinancing and home buying. But now, as the recovery gains momentum and the Fed signals that it plans to pull back, interest rates are beginning to rise and mortgage refinancing is beginning to wane.
Mr. Bernanke said on Wednesday that the rate increases were a ''good thing,'' a sign that the economy is returning to health.
But Ian Shepherdson, chief economist at Pantheon Macroeconomics, said the Fed still runs the risk of withdrawing its extra support for the economy too soon.
''Later in the cycle, we will be happy to take that view too,'' Mr. Shepherdson wrote Wednesday. ''But not now, and it is very odd coming from a Fed chairman who has placed so much emphasis on the role of housing in the recovery. We do not think the market is yet ready to absorb higher rates.''
The Fed, in a statement released after the meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee, sounded notes of increased optimism about the economy, but unusually, the statement did not describe the bond-buying timeline. Mr. Bernanke said he had been ''deputized'' to share the details at the news conference.
The statement said that the economy was expanding ''at a moderate pace'' and that the job market was improving. Most significantly, it noted that risks to growth had ''diminished since last fall,'' an important assertion because the Fed has been trying in part to shield the economy from the consequences of reductions in federal spending. Those consequences have been milder than expected.
In a separate forecast released at the same time, Fed officials predicted that the unemployment rate would decline more quickly than they had projected, dropping to between 6.5 percent and 6.8 percent by the end of 2014. In March, they predicted that the rate would fall by the end of next year to between 6.7 percent and 7 percent.
The Fed said that it would continue for now to buy $85 billion a month in Treasury securities and mortgage-backed bonds, in addition to holding short-term interest rates near zero. Both policies are intended to ease financial conditions, to encourage economic activity and to increase the pace of job creation.
Two of the 12 members of the Federal Open Market Committee dissented. Esther George, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, reiterated her concern that the Fed was doing too much. James Bullard, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, broke with the majority for the first time this year to express concern about the sagging pace of inflation.
Economic conditions have improved modestly since the Fed began its latest round of asset purchases last September. The economy has added about 197,000 jobs a month, and the unemployment rate has fallen slightly to 7.6 percent in May from 7.8 percent in September.
But the economic damage of the recession remains largely unrepaired. Job growth is basically keeping pace with population growth. The share of American adults with jobs has not increased in three years. Moreover, the Fed's preferred measure of inflation has shrunk to an annual pace 1.05 percent, the lowest level in more than 50 years, as the economy continues to operate below capacity.
The Fed would prefer annual inflation to run closer to 2 percent, diminishing the risk of outright deflation, or a general fall in the level of prices, which can paralyze economic activity as buyers wait for lower prices.
Despite the fact that unemployment remains high and inflation remains low, the Fed has shown no sign of interest in expanding the pace of its stimulus campaign. Officials say that they are doing as much as they can. The debate instead has focused on how soon the Fed can afford to start buying fewer bonds.
Mr. Bernanke said on Wednesday that even as the Fed pulls back, it still would be increasing its total bond holdings each month, and therefore that the stimulating effect also would continue to increase. He also emphasized the Fed's intent to hold short-term rates near zero well beyond the end of the asset purchases, a policy that the Fed regards as significantly more potent.
''Our intent from the beginning was to use asset purchases as a way to achieve some near-term momentum and then to allow the low interest rate policy to carry us through,'' he said.
The Fed has said that rates would remain near zero at least as long as the unemployment rate remained above 6.5 percent. Mr. Bernanke said the Fed might well hold rates low for longer, particularly if inflation remained weak. He added that the Fed would consider adopting a lower threshold. The goal, he said, was to stabilize unemployment between 5 percent and 6 percent.
Mr. Bernanke is unlikely to preside over those decisions. His second term as chairman ends next January, and President Obama reinforced expectations Monday that Mr. Bernanke would not be nominated by the White House to serve a third term. Mr. Bernanke declined to answer several questions about the president's remarks and his own plans at his news conference on Wednesday, insisting that Fed policy should be the sole focus.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Of the Fed's bond-buying program, Ben S. Bernanke, the central bank's chairman, said, ''If things are worse, we will do more.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BONDS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (76%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (67%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (67%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (63%); MORTGAGE LOANS (56%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2013



643 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 866 words

HEADLINE: Executive At Monsanto Wins Global Food Honor

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK

 BODY:
When it comes to agriculture, the World Food Prize is the equivalent of the Oscars.
This year, the prestigious award went the mastermind behind Monsanto's big move into genetically modified crops. In foodie terms, that is like a commercial blockbuster winning best picture rather than an independent, artsy film.
Started in 1987, the prize aims to recognize people who improve the ''quality, quantity or availability'' of food in the world. The founder of the award, Norman E. Borlaug, won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1970 as the father of the Green Revolution, which vastly increased grain output. 
On Wednesday the World Food Prize Foundation said the honor and the $250,000 cash prize would be shared by Robert T. Fraley, Monsanto's executive vice president and chief technology officer, and two other scientists, Marc Van Montagu of Belgium and Mary-Dell Chilton of the United States. The foundation said the work of the three scientists, who helped devise a way to insert foreign genes into plants, led to the development of higher-yielding crops that can resist insects, disease and extremes of climate.
The prize has some public relations value for Monsanto and other supporters of bioengineered food. But the choice is also likely to add heat to an already intense debate about the role biotechnology can play in combating world hunger.
Genetically modified crops are grown on 420 million acres by 17.3 million farmers around the world. More than 90 percent of them are small farmers in developing countries, according to the International Service for the Acquisition of Agri-biotech Applications, an organization that promotes use of biotechnology.
But the crops are shunned in many countries and by many consumers, who say the health and environmental effects have not been adequately studied. The crops' role in increasing yields and helping farming adapt to climate change is still subject to some debate. One study organized by the World Bank and United Nations concluded in 2008 that genetically modified crops would play only a small role in fighting world hunger.
The World Food Prize has been criticized in the past for favoring industrial agriculture. The foundation that administers the prize has received contributions from companies, including a $5 million pledge from Monsanto in 2008.
Eric Holt-Giménez, executive director of Food First, a food policy research organization in Oakland, Calif., said the World Food Prize's ''growing obsession'' with biotechnology ''ignores the documented successes'' of nonindustrial methods of farming.
Kenneth M. Quinn, the president of the World Food Prize Foundation, defended the choice, saying that crop biotechnology had ''met the test of demonstrating it would impact millions of people and enhance their lives.'' Mr. Quinn, a former United States ambassador to Cambodia, said that contributions had no influence on the selection of winners.
''The view of our organization and our committee is that in the face of controversy, you shouldn't back away from your precepts,'' he said. ''If you do so, you are diminishing the prize.''
The winners of the 2013 prize were part of teams that independently developed methods three decades ago for putting foreign genes into the DNA of plants.
The key was a soil microbe called Agrobacterium tumefaciens, which can inject its own DNA into plants, causing a tumorlike growth called crown gall disease. The researchers disabled the tumor-causing part of the bacterium and inserted the gene that they wanted to be carried into the plant's DNA.
Scientists from the three teams, which were fiercely competing with one another, presented their results at a conference in Miami in January 1983.
Dr. Van Montagu, who did his research at Ghent University, founded two biotechnology companies, Plant Genetic Systems and Crop Design. Dr. Chilton, who did much of her research at the University of Washington and Washington University in St. Louis, became the core of the biotechnology team at Syngenta, where she still works.
Monsanto started later than the other two teams. But the company helped finance their work and was therefore able to learn from them and catch up, eventually dominating the crop biotechnology business, according to ''Lords of the Harvest,'' a book about Monsanto by Daniel Charles.
A big reason was Dr. Fraley, who was hired by Monsanto as a molecular biologist in 1981 but soon moved beyond tinkering with plant cells as he rose up the ranks.
He harbored ''oversized ambitions and visions of a business empire in the making,'' Mr. Charles wrote. The book described Dr. Fraley as ''preternaturally self-confident'' and driven, a Midwest farm boy who did not want to go back to the tractor and instead preferred the perks of corporate life, like fancy clothes and sports cars.
Dr. Fraley said on Wednesday that he was ''humbled'' by his selection for the award. He said the fact that so many farmers plant genetically engineered crops was the best evidence of their importance.
''It's been the fastest-adopted technology in the history of agriculture,'' he said in an interview. ''Farmers are smart and economical, and they won't adopt and use the technology unless it improves their profitability.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Robert Fraley, who is Monsanto's chief technology officer. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONSANTO)
Marc Van Montagu and Mary-Dell Chilton also won the prize. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GHENT UNIVERSITY
 SYNGENTA) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (92%); AGRICULTURE (91%); AWARDS & PRIZES (90%); AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (90%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (78%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (78%); AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH (78%); NOBEL PRIZES (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED FOOD (78%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (77%); CLIMATOLOGY (73%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (73%); CLIMATE CHANGE (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (67%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (61%)

COMPANY: MONSANTO CO (90%)

TICKER: MON (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (90%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (90%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (66%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (51%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); CAMBODIA (79%); BELGIUM (71%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2013



644 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; EAST WING JOURNAL; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: Among Culinary Candidates, a Grass-Roots Campaign

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The tables, which stretched the length of a full city block, were covered with pork lettuce wraps, catfish, spring rolls, all manner of vegetable soup and something called lunchtime waffles. Sam Kass, Michelle Obama's senior policy adviser on nutrition, leaned over a pork dish, stabbed it with a fork, then delivered his approbation. ''Fantastic.''
Robert C. Post, an associate executive director at the United States Department of Agriculture, seemed less moved by flavors. He carved into a small chicken potpie like an entomologist vivisecting an arthropod and studied the recipe for its nutritional content. ''Yes, creative, O.K.,'' he said. 
Sabrina Burton bypassed it all. ''I'm going for the pizza,'' she announced, perhaps because she is 10.
The three were among the judges on a panel evaluating the 108 recipe finalists among scores entered in a recent East Wing healthy recipe contest. Their task was to whittle the entries from every state and four United States territories to 54 winners, whose authors will join Michelle Obama at the White House for a ''state dinner'' next month.
The two-year-old contest, the brainchild of Tanya Steel, editor of the food Web site Epicurious, is part of Mrs. Obama's continuing agenda to improve the eating habits of America's children. While much of her focus has been on exercise and improving school lunches, the campaign this year is trying to get people to cook better and more nutritionally.
''This is an incredible opportunity to utilize the platform we have in the White House to incentivize kids to get engaged in preparing healthy meals,'' said Mr. Kass, who runs Mrs. Obama's Let's Move program and is also an assistant White House chef. (Perhaps you heard he was furloughed. It was one day. Relax.)
''We see these young kids who have worked with their families to come up with these recipes be treated as heroes as they go back to their cities and towns,'' Mr. Kass said. ''We are trying to give families recipes and tools to help make it easier for people to eat well.''
More than 1,300 families with children ages 8 to 12 submitted lunchtime recipes that adhered to the latest U.S.D.A. nutritional guidelines and contained each of the food groups with fruits and vegetables making up half the plate.
Recipes, which were required to be original, were judged 50 percent on their nutritional value, 25 percent on taste and 25 percent on creativity.
Some hit the mark on calories, but were sadly uninspiring on the plate -- fish with no verve, chili devoid of any seasoning.
''You don't need salt!'' insisted Mr. Kass. Well, yes you do.
''Last year it was all about quinoa and strawberries,'' said Ms. Steel. ''This year, lots of salmon and Greek yogurt. It seems like every plate has a message.''
On Thursday Mrs. Obama will announce the winners, who will attend a lunch at the White House on July 9, during which they will chow down on healthy food -- including a selection of the winning recipes -- and visit the White House kitchen garden.
''Our Kids' State Dinner is one of my favorite events of the year,'' Mrs. Obama said in a statement. ''And the kid chefs who come from around the country never cease to impress and inspire me with their creativity and ingenuity.''
The simple act of creating the meals for the judges was something to behold. Each recipe, scaled to a serving, was prepared in the Washington Convention Center by cooks from D.C. Central Kitchen, a community kitchen that trains unemployed adults to cook. ''It's a herculean task,'' Ms. Steel said, noting the sprawl of tables covered with ''bodacious banana muffins,'' ''nummy no-noodle lasagna'' and the like. Judges moved along the tables like so many guests on a cruise ship, tasting and then discarding their forks into a basket for washing.
It was feel-good situation, but since it was also Washington, some controversy arose.
The miniature pizza with vegetables and cauliflower crust, submitted by Olivia Neely, a 10-year-old from Kansas, was deemed delicious by all. Mr. Kass and Mr. Post were nonetheless unconvinced, insisting that there had to be some type of flour in the recipe, so stable, so delicious was this crust, which was billed as gluten-free.
''Has to be,'' insisted Mr. Kass, in a shocking accusation of fraud and deceit. Mr. Post agreed. A trip to the kitchen ensued. The cooks assured all that there was in fact no flour in the recipe and that the cauliflower purée stood on its own accord. Mr. Kass seemed somewhat sheepish, although perhaps not enough. The pizza is among the finalists.
The full list of winners and recipes will be available online at recipechallenge.epicurious.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Michelle Obama was joined by students last month as they picked vegetables from the kitchen garden on the South Lawn of the White House. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); NUTRITION (90%); CHILDREN (86%); FAMILY (86%); CITY LIFE (78%); SCHOOL MEAL PROGRAMS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); CITIES (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%); ENTOMOLOGY (70%); ANIMALS (70%); WRITERS (67%); US TERRITORIES (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (57%)

PERSON: MICHELLE OBAMA (90%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2013



645 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: Trans-Atlantic Trade and Its Discontents

BYLINE: By KARL-THEODOR zu GUTTENBERG and PIERPAOLO BARBIERI

 BODY:
The North American Free Trade Agreement will be 20 years old in 2014, and all those who predicted it would bring about disaster have long gone silent.
Despite a painful initial adjustment period, Nafta boosted intra-North American trade, pushing its members to improve competitiveness and focus on their comparative advantages. Mexico is now a manufacturing powerhouse, and a North American energy revolution only furthers the bloc's global competitiveness.
Something similar is occurring in Europe, where the euro crisis never became a trade crisis, in stark contrast to the 1930s trade wars. In fact, one of the key conclusions to be drawn from the balkanization of European finances and divergent euro-zone growth over the last three years is that the European Union's single market needs to be deeper. 
And now there is a new trade horizon. At the Group of 8 summit meeting, official talks were launched for an E.U.-U.S. free-trade agreement. The E.U. commissioner for trade, Karel De Gucht, has talked about a ''living agreement'' to be finished by the end of 2014.
On the surface, this is good news for everyone. The collective interests of the world's first- and second-largest markets would be served by an agreement that would boost combined G.D.P. by almost 1 percent. There is great hope that cooperation would reduce unnecessary regulation on both sides of the Atlantic.
But the politics, as they now stand, do not serve to achieve that goal.
De Gucht's goal is understandable. The current commission will end its term in October 2014, and both he and the current leadership want the credit for finalizing an agreement with the United States. Yet the first rule of trade talks is that they take time.
The second is that politics can shift the sands very quickly, creating a typical ''tragedy of the commons'' scenario in which an overall positive outcome is blocked by special interests.
Take the E.U. negotiations with Canada: They have been going on since 2009 and are hostage to agricultural interests on both sides. While Irish and French farmers fret about the inflow of Canadian beef, Canada's dairy producers are wary of losing their comfortable margins, currently ensured by quotas.
The political barriers for the United States and the E.U. run even deeper.
The first hurdle is France. It is not the most free-trade-loving of E.U. members, and the administration of President François Hollande is no exception. His government has threatened to block negotiations if the E.U. does not preserve Europe's ''cultural exception,'' to protect audiovisual arts. Last Friday's murky compromise, whereby art is ''not in, not out,'' allows everyone to claim victory, but it weakens the E.U.'s negotiating position fundamentally by inviting the United States to respond in kind.
Like health care or defense, art is not an arena where the free market works perfectly. Yet ''l'exception culturelle'' has as much potential to protect diversity as it has to destroy it. In any event, the protection of French-Italian art films from Hollywood blockbusters should not be used as an excuse to derail trans-Atlantic free trade.
For every area where the market may not know best -- and film is one of them -- there are quite a few others where entrenched, protected interests work against society at large. There are certainly those within the French administration who would like to turn the cultural exception into a rabbit hole for everything from inefficient beef production to digital services.
In Germany, freer trade is a good talking point ahead of federal elections in September. But will those who oppose deeper integration of finance and services within Europe really be willing to give American companies that kind of access? Don't hold your breath.
Just as worrisome is the political situation in the United States. President Obama is a late convert to free trade; in his first term, he did nothing on the issue. It remains to be seen whether the president is serious in his second term about confronting the critics of free trade in his Democratic Party.
Given the complexity of the deal, it may be best to seek what Commissioner De Gucht called a ''living agreement,'' one that can be furthered if and when the politics allow. We would suggest that it should also be ''living'' from a geographical perspective: The open-ended nature of the groundbreaking 1957 Treaty of Rome, which enshrined the concept of an ''ever closer union'' in Europe, should be used as a template.
The two regions that have done the most for global free trade in the post-war era should leave the door open for others to join in. This would allow a U.S.-E.U. trade deal eventually to serve as a platform for the inclusion of regions with which both parties have negotiations or agreements, in Latin America and a wider Atlantic basin. That is worth fighting -- and waiting -- for.
Karl-Theodor zu Guttenberg, a former German defense minister, is a distinguished statesman at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. Pierpaolo Barbieri is the Ernest May Fellow at the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at the Harvard Kennedy School of Government.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (92%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); POLITICS (86%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); TRADE DISPUTES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); EURO (75%); EURO ZONE (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); BEEF (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); DAIRY PRODUCT MFG (71%); MONETARY UNIONS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (69%); AGRICULTURE (60%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (56%)

PERSON: FRANCOIS HOLLANDE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (95%); CANADA (93%); EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2013



646 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 916 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Slide on Fears of Cuts To Fed's Bond-Buying Program

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL POPPER

 BODY:
Ben S. Bernanke's confidence in the United States economy did not kill the worm of doubt that has been gnawing at markets.
Investors sold off both stocks and bonds Wednesday afternoon after Mr. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, spoke about improvements in the economy that could allow the central bank to step back from its unusual monetary stimulus of the last few years.
Markets have sold off before and then quickly recovered as they digested Mr. Bernanke's words. Still, the steep market declines on Wednesday underscored the fears circulating through trading desks. One concern is that the economy is not strong enough to do without the Fed's support. Another is that the Fed's decision to ease off the gas could, in itself, cause enough turmoil in the markets that economic growth could be threatened. 
''There is a tremendous amount of doubt whether without Mr. Bernanke's help, the economy can keep chugging along,'' said Thomas di Galoma, one of the heads of bond trading at ED&F Man Capital Markets.
The breadth of the anxiety was evident across bond markets on Wednesday. Investors did not just sell the longer-dated government bonds that the Fed has been buying; they also sold shorter maturities, pointing to predictions that interest rates are likely to rise across the board. The interest rate on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note, which rises as the price declines when investors sell the bonds, climbed to 2.36 percent from 2.19 percent on Tuesday, the sharpest increase this month.
If rates continue to rise, it could crimp lending and eventually hurt the broader economy and stock markets. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index ended the day down 1.39 percent, or 22.88 points, to 1,628.93 -- its worst performance this month. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 206.04 points, or 1.35 percent, to 15,112.19, while the Nasdaq fell 38.98 points, or 1.12 percent, to 3,443.20.
Many strategists said the investors who sent the markets down on Wednesday were panicking and overlooking the nuances of Mr. Bernanke's words. Mr. Bernanke emphasized repeatedly that the Fed was not likely to pull back on the stimulus until it was clear the economy could handle it and could step right back in if there were signs of faltering.
''Nobody is listening,'' said Gennadiy Goldberg, a rates strategist at TD Securities. ''As soon as you give the market anything to chew on, they are going to tear the limb off.''
Like many economists, Mr. Bernanke said that it would ultimately be healthy for interest rates to rise from the unnaturally low levels of the last few years.
''If interest rates go up for the right reasons -- that is, both optimism about the economy and an accurate assessment of monetary policy -- that's a good thing; that's not a bad thing,'' he said.
What the Fed is hoping to see is gradually rising interest rates alongside a continuing rally in the stock markets.
But Mr. Bernanke acknowledged that he had been caught off guard by the extent of the market's reaction to indications that the Fed may consider slowing down its asset purchases.
''We were a little puzzled by that,'' he said of the sharp jump in interest rates.
It is the Fed's apparent difficulty in predicting and managing the markets' reaction that represents one of the most disconcerting threats to the economic recovery. Investors could decide that Mr. Bernanke is losing his ability to influence interest rates and continue to sell bonds despite the Fed's efforts to calm the markets. A sudden surge in selling would most likely ripple violently through global markets.
''If bond traders succeed (like bond vigilantes from another era), what does that mean for the economy?'' Jonathan Lewis, the chief investment officer at Samson Capital Advisors, wrote in a note to clients.
Most investors consider a disorderly market plunge to be a distant possibility, but there are more widespread concerns about the economy's ability to continue growing without the Fed's help.
The Fed has played a particularly instrumental role in supporting the recovery of the housing market by buying mortgage-backed bonds. These purchases have pushed down mortgage rates and encouraged home buying, which has lifted home prices.
Since Mr. Bernanke first indicated in May that he might step back from the bond purchases, investors have sold mortgage bonds and pushed mortgage rates up. The Mortgage Bankers Association said on Wednesday that the number of new mortgage applications fell 3.3 percent from the previous week.
Steven Ricchiuto, the chief economist at Mizuho Securities, said the housing market and the broader market were more sensitive to rising interest rates than many investors have assumed.
''I don't think this economy is resistant to interest rates,'' he said.
It appears that the Fed is not ignoring the possible threats to the housing market. Mr. Bernanke said that when the Fed did begin slowing down its bond purchases, it would begin with government bonds, while maintaining the current level of support for mortgage-backed bonds.
Even with Wednesday's market declines, the leading American stock indexes are still up more than 10 percent for the year. The question is whether the confidence that has driven markets up will be sustainable as the date of the Fed's exit draws nearer.
''Investors have been willing to invest because they knew they had the safety net of the Fed,'' said Larry Peruzzi, a trader at Cabrera Capital Markets. ''Now investors are going to have to think harder about taking risks.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ben Bernanke of the Fed spoke about improvements in the economy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD DREW/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B1)
 Market declines underscored investors' concerns about the economy's ability to continue growing without the Fed's help. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SPENCER PLATT/GETTY IMAGES) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2013



647 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: Dissent Festers in States That Obama Seems to Have Forgotten

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- You might call North Dakota the antithesis of President Obama's political base.
Whites make up 90 percent of its population, which is fewer than one million people and mostly in rural areas. Its proportion of people 65 and over exceeds the national average. There was never a chance that North Dakota would give Mr. Obama its three electoral votes.
So Mr. Obama has not given North Dakota his time. It is one of six states he has not visited as president, along with South Dakota, Arkansas, Idaho, South Carolina and Utah. He has gone just once to Kansas, Kentucky, Mississippi, Montana, Nebraska, Tennessee and Wyoming.
Mr. Obama's near-complete absence from more than 25 percent of the states, from which he is politically estranged, is no surprise, reflecting routine cost-benefit calculations of the modern presidency. But in a country splintered by partisanship and race, it may have consequences. 
America's 21st-century politics, as underscored by the immigration debate embroiling Congress, increasingly pits the preferences of a dwindling, Republican-leaning white majority against those of expanding, Democratic-leaning Hispanic and black minorities. Even some sympathetic observers fault Mr. Obama as not doing all he could to pull disparate elements of society closer. ''Every president should make an attempt to bridge the divide,'' said Donna Brazile, an African-American Democratic strategist. ''It's a tall order. I wouldn't give him high marks.''
Al Cross, who directs the Institute for Rural Journalism and Community Issues at the University of Kentucky, said, ''You're president of the whole country.'' By all but ignoring the state, he added, Mr. Obama has allowed negative sentiment toward his presidency to deepen.
America's political polarization has of course gathered force for decades; Mr. Obama merely inherited it. His aides note, accurately, that he has faced concerted, implacable Republican opposition -- like Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, who declared his goal of ensuring a one-term Obama presidency. While a president's destinations carry symbolic weight, the entire country sees him through news coverage wherever he goes.
But Mr. Obama burst onto the national stage as a bridge-builder whose biracial ancestry spanned the white Kansas heartland and emerging minority communities. His 2004 Democratic convention speech gained moral force by scorning the fact that ''pundits like to slice and dice our country into red states and blue states.''
''There's not a liberal America and a conservative America,'' Mr. Obama said then. ''There's not a black America and a white America and Latino America and Asian America -- there's the United States of America.''
As Mr. Obama's travel shows, his White House has sliced and diced as finely as any. According to figures compiled by Mark Knoller of CBS News, an unofficial White House historian, Mr. Obama has visited the swing states of Colorado 19 times, Florida 30 times, Iowa 18 times, Nevada 17 times and Ohio 39 times.
That precision targeting paid off last November when Mr. Obama defeated Mitt Romney in every swing state but North Carolina. His winning formula: higher margins than John Kerry racked up against President George W. Bush in 2004 among blacks, Hispanics, Asians, city-dwellers and young voters, even as he suffered larger deficits among whites, rural residents and older voters.
It was a practical adaptation to what Mr. Obama faced while pursuing policy goals on economic recovery and health care. Resistance ranged from traditional Republican foes in Washington, to the Tea Party movement, to the ''birthers'' on the political fringe who refused to accept the legitimacy of his citizenship.
''I think that he was genuinely startled by the intensity of the polarization he encountered,'' said William Galston, domestic policy director in President Bill Clinton's White House. ''He reacted to that in effect by saying, 'Never mind -- I'm not going to beat my head against the wall.' ''
Mr. Bush traced a similar arc. He ran in 2000 as ''a uniter, not a divider,'' but later subordinated that priority to his divisive prosecution of the Iraq war.
That ultimately helped drive away Mr. Bush's campaign strategist Matthew Dowd. After breaking with the president, Mr. Dowd met with the candidate Barack Obama and told him, Mr. Dowd said, ''I hope you're going to be the president of the country, not just leader of your party.''
Mr. Dowd says Mr. Obama's engagement with adversaries in and out of Washington has been too narrowly focused, ''about a transaction and not about a relationship.'' He chided Mr. Obama as giving short shrift to bridge-building when the president summoned him for advice after Democrats' midterm election defeat in 2010. ''Why haven't you used the social power of the presidency to do that?'' Mr. Dowd recalled asking Mr. Obama. ''He didn't push back all that strongly, because he acknowledged he could have done a better job.''
David Axelrod, who has advised Mr. Obama from the start of his career, says the criticism overlooks the inflexibility of Republicans' determination to block his objectives on economic recovery and almost anything else.
''I don't think he'll ever stop making those points he made at the 2004 Democratic convention,'' Mr. Axelrod said. ''At the same time, he has responsibilities as president to get things done. A lot of where the president goes has to do with where he can influence the public to influence the people in Congress who are potential votes,'' he said. ''It'd be great for him, if he had the time, to barnstorm the red states and meet people. I don't know how fundamentally that would change things.''
The sense of disappointment some feel extends beyond inattention to staunch opponents. Mr. Obama has not, for instance, traveled as president to the overwhelmingly poor, black Mississippi Delta, either.
Ms. Brazile sees the White House stuck ''in this postracial box,'' determined to present Mr. Obama as a leader who does not reflexively promote the concerns of fellow African-Americans over others. On substance, Mr. Axelrod countered, places like the Mississippi Delta have benefited substantially from his economic and health care policies.
Just months into his second term, Mr. Obama has time to elevate the unifying themes that propelled his initial emergence. Mr. Clinton, who valued presidential travel as a symbol of outreach, did not touch every state until he visited Nebraska six weeks before leaving office.
The historic fact that an African-American even made it to the White House was a pathbreaking leap across the country's divisions. But Ms. Brazile hopes Mr. Obama will do more. ''There will be a chapter on reconciliation'' in books assessing his legacy, she said. But so far, ''that chapter doesn't have many paragraphs.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (79%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); CONSERVATISM (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); IMMIGRATION (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (94%); KENTUCKY, USA (93%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2013



648 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-DOCS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 195 words

HEADLINE: 'West Virginia, Still Home'

BYLINE: By ELAINE McMILLION. 
Elaine McMillion is a documentary storyteller and media artist based in Boston. She is the project director of ''Hollow,'' an interactive documentary that explores the future of rural America through the eyes of West Virginians.

 BODY:
In this Op-Doc video, and a related online interactive documentary, ''Hollow,'' I share the experiences and memories of hard-working people who live amid the coal fields of McDowell County, W.Va. They are struggling to save their rural community -- in jeopardy because of high unemployment and an exodus of young people (since 1950, the county has lost 80 percent of its population). 
I was raised nearby in Logan County, W.Va., and experienced the boom-and-bust economy. My great-grandfather, grandfather, father and brother have all relied on the coal industry for their livelihoods. Layoffs, shutdowns and sometimes promotions prompted my family to move 10 times before I reached age 12. I dearly loved this place, one of the most beautiful areas in the country, and I'm proud of my family's roots. But there were few opportunities in the area for an aspiring filmmaker. As soon as I had the chance to leave West Virginia, I moved to Washington, D.C., and then to Boston.
Today, I feel a sense of guilt that I left my home state behind to chase my dreams. I am part of the problem -- the face of youth exodus -- and I would like to find solutions that could help us return.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); COAL INDUSTRY (77%); COAL MINING (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (95%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2013



649 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1270 words

HEADLINE: Self-Finance or Raise Money? A Quandary for Start-Ups

BYLINE: By IAN MOUNT

 BODY:
Roman Stanek and Robert J. Moore had the same dream. The two entrepreneurs saw businesses collecting lots of data about their customers' Web transactions and decided there could be a huge market in helping those businesses analyze the data to determine who their customers were and how best to reach them.
But while Mr. Stanek and Mr. Moore went after roughly the same market at roughly the same time, they differed in one critical aspect: how they financed their dreams. One quickly raised more than $50 million, while the other mostly self-financed, thus creating a rare opportunity to assess the difference venture capital can make and bring new perspective to an age-old debate.
When Mr. Stanek, a Czech entrepreneur, founded GoodData in San Francisco in 2007, he already had plenty of experience with venture capital. He had sold a venture-backed software development tools company, NetBeans, to Sun Microsystems in 1999 for a little more than $10 million. And in 2006, he sold Systinet, a Web-service company, to Mercury Interactive for $105 million. 
After financing the first year of GoodData's software development with several hundred thousand dollars from his Systinet sale, Mr. Stanek began to seek investors. Eventually, he brought in $53.5 million from the likes of O'Reilly AlphaTech Ventures and Andreessen Horowitz. ''We spent three years building a product and we are still building big pieces. That was funded by the V.C.'s and myself,'' said Mr. Stanek, 47. ''It's like the printing business. I have to spend money on my printing machine. There's an initial large investment, and then once you have the printing press running, it's very predictable. So if we wanted to create a dominant large company, we didn't have a choice.''
By contrast, before starting RJMetrics, the co-founders, Robert Moore and Jake Stein, worked as junior analysts at a New York venture capital firm, Insight Venture Partners, where they came across entrepreneurs who had built profitable businesses without a lot of capital and put off fund-raising as long as possible. ''What happens in those situations is those entrepreneurs do extremely well personally,'' said Mr. Moore, 29.
When they started RJMetrics in late 2008, Mr. Moore and Mr. Stein invested $10,000 of their own money. Mr. Moore wrote the first version of the company's software in his attic in Collingswood, N.J. They did not hire their first employee until 2010, and they moved to an office in Philadelphia, where costs are far less than in New York or San Francisco.
By the time they did raise some money, in early 2012, they had 100 customers and annual revenue of about $1 million. ''That put us in excellent negotiating position, because we had a proof point that other companies at our stage didn't have,'' Mr. Moore said. The owners raised $1.2 million, almost all from RJMetrics customers.
The two approaches have created very different companies. RJMetrics signed its first paying customer to a rudimentary prototype just three months after it started. To build revenue, it had to hope for good word of mouth (which it got) because it did not have a sales staff. But bootstrapping, or self-financing, did allow the founders to keep a large percentage of the company's equity and to avoid the distortion that can come from having money and the demanding investors who supply it.
The venture capital industry views bootstrapping in the face of a big market opportunity as false economy. John O'Farrell, a partner at Andreessen Horowitz, said that it generally took an investment of $75 million to take a software company from start-up to initial public offering. ''If you want to capture a big open market, you want to bring in money to grab land,'' he said. ''If you bootstrap, the tendency is to try to get profitable early so you don't need to put in more money, but you end up missing a big opportunity.''
GoodData's war chest allowed Mr. Stanek to staff up for the land grab. The company now has about 250 employees, half dedicated to the product and half charged with sales and marketing. RJMetrics, on the other hand, has 26 employees, more than half of them working in product development and only four on sales and marketing. The company's first director of marketing started in February.
Inevitably, the companies have gravitated toward different markets. While RJMetrics has gone after small and midsize companies, GoodData has pursued Fortune 2000 clients that demand robust products and have the money to pay for them. RJMetrics had about $1 million in revenue in 2011 and about $2 million in 2012, according to Mr. Moore. Mr. Stanek declined to specify his company's revenue, but he noted that last year GoodData signed 42 contracts that were each worth more than $100,000 a year, which would suggest an annual run rate of at least $4 million.
The founders also see their customers differently. Mr. Stanek said that multiple customers had come to GoodData from RJMetrics because RJMetrics was too small. ''We have large customers who would not go to RJMetrics, who need 24/7 software, and special security, privacy and so on,'' he said.
Mr. Moore, on the other hand, said his lack of financing allowed his company to pursue its vision without rushing after customers that did not fit. ''Our vision is that there is as large or more opportunity in the small-to-midsize market, and we have the flexibility to pursue that and be a disruptive player,'' he added, a luxury he said GoodData has not had. ''To scale the business, they have to make very big investments in getting very big contracts.''
Ultimately, the question is whether it is better to hold equity or trade it for growth. Mr. Moore noted that RJMetrics' founders and employees continued to hold more than 80 percent of the company even after taking seed financing. That meant, he said, that if RJMetrics were to sell for, say, $50 million, the founders would be set for life financially.
If GoodData were to sell for $50 million, it would be a disaster. ''The personal upside for someone who owns 5 percent of a company that sells for $100 million and the person who owns 50 percent of one that sells for $10 million is the same,'' Mr. Moore said. ''And a lot more companies sell for $10 million than for $100 million.''
Mr. Stanek said the higher expectations he faces were worth it because he and his investors expected the company to be worth at least $1 billion. ''I would not interpret it as pressure,'' he said. ''Life is short and we shouldn't waste it on opportunities that aren't worth it.'' He declined to say what percentage of the company he still owns: ''I am no longer the majority holder, but I have enough to keep me interested.'' Last week, his company announced that it had raised another $22 million in venture capital, bringing its total to $75.5 million.
Neither Mr. Stanek nor Mr. Moore sees this as a black-and-white issue. Mr. Stanek said he was a ''big believer'' in bootstrapping and that getting too much capital too early could be dangerous. And the RJMetrics founders recently decided that, after five years of bootstrapping, it was time to raise money to compete with GoodData and others. In May, they announced a $6.25 million investment led by a California venture firm, Trinity Ventures. ''The timing was right to put the pedal to the metal,'' Mr. Moore said. ''Whereas in the past we'd been growing at 100 percent a year, we see a path to substantially increasing that rate.''
Like Mr. Stanek, Mr. Moore declined to specify what percentage of the company the founders retained. ''It is an atypically large percentage compared to others in our position,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Roman Stanek, founder and chief of GoodData, sought financing through venture capitalists. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JASON HENRY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 The founder and chief of RJMetrics, Robert J. Moore, and his co-founder chose to finance the business with their own money. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JASON HENRY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); VENTURE CAPITAL APPLICANTS & RECIPIENTS (78%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (73%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (73%); PROGRAMMING LANGUAGES & TOOLS (68%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (58%)

COMPANY: ORACLE AMERICA INC (56%); INSIGHT VENTURE PARTNERS (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (56%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (56%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (52%)

PERSON: MARC ANDREESSEN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (67%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2013



650 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 387 words

HEADLINE: Turkey in Turmoil

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

 BODY:
Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan had many opportunities over the last three weeks to resolve the political crisis in Turkey peacefully and quickly. However, with almost every statement and directive he has made the situation worse, increasing concerns at home and abroad over his authoritarian tendencies and Turkey's future as a democratic model in the Muslim world. 
Instead of engaging with activists who opposed a plan to turn a park in Taksim Square in Istanbul into a shopping mall, the government cracked down on them with tear gas and water cannons, stirring widespread outrage over Mr. Erdogan's arrogance and his infringement on free speech and other liberties. At least four people (three demonstrators and a police officer) have been killed and more than 7,500 people have been injured since the turmoil began. Scores of lawyers, journalists and medics have been detained. But Mr. Erdogan seems to have ruled out talks and compromise.
News reports said police on Wednesday were questioning more than 100 people in Istanbul, Ankara and other cities for alleged involvement in violent acts. The deputy prime minister has said that the Army could be called in to quell the unrest. Equally alarming, Mr. Erdogan has labeled the protesters as terrorists, a sinister term that could be used to excuse any form of government abuse.
Mr. Erdogan has worked hard to promote Turkey as a democracy aligned with the United States and Europe. Yet he is now intimidating the local news media, attacking the international news media, making veiled anti-Semitic remarks and suggesting that undefined ''foreign forces'' are behind the unrest. During his decade in power, Turkey's economy has prospered, and he has positioned the country as a regional leader. His Islamist party has made important gains in health care, income levels and housing, and exerted civilian control over an Army once enmeshed in politics.
But Mr. Erdogan has gone too far in pushing conservative views on a secular state and in suppressing dissent. There is no expectation that he will be forced from office because he retains broad support. But the unrest has already shaken the economy, given Germany another excuse to keep Turkey out of the European Union and exacerbated divisions among Turks. Mr. Erdogan should consider what he wants his legacy to be.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); POLITICS (79%); CONSERVATISM (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); TERRORISM (74%); JOURNALISM (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (71%); CHURCH & STATE (50%)

PERSON: RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (90%); ANKARA, TURKEY (78%) TURKEY (99%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2013



651 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 555 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Accuses 3 Countries of Abetting Human Trafficking

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The State Department on Wednesday accused Russia, China and Uzbekistan of continuing to abet human trafficking and forced labor, raising the possibility that they could face sanctions at a time when President Obama has tried to maintain relations with each on strategic issues. 
All three countries fell to the lowest ranking in the State Department's annual report on trafficking, joining 16 other nations that the United States argues have failed to combat or have been complicit in a practice estimated to claim as many as 27 million victims at any given time.
Mr. Obama, who last year announced stronger measures against trafficking, including new rules involving federal contracts overseas, now has up to 90 days to decide whether the three will be subjected to sanctions that include an end to many forms of foreign aid and the withholding of American support in institutions like the World Bank.
In the past, the White House has routinely waived potential sanctions for countries with important strategic value to the United States, including Kuwait, Saudi Arabia and Yemen, which the latest report again cited for poor records on forced labor, child labor, prostitution and, in Yemen's case, the remnants of chattel slavery.
Countries clearly at odds with American policy -- including Cuba and North Korea -- have been subject to sanctions.
A White House spokeswoman, Caitlin Hayden, would not comment on whether the president would impose sanctions on Russia, China and Uzbekistan.
Advocacy groups welcomed the State Department's decision to downgrade the three, but they also criticized what they described as inconsistent imposition of sanctions.
''The State Department has demonstrated that it is prepared to sanction even the most powerful countries in the world if they don't meet the standards set out under U.S. law,'' said John Sifton, the Asia advocacy director of Human Rights Watch. ''The question for the White House is whether they're prepared to execute the sanctions.''
World Vision, a Christian humanitarian group, noted that 10 countries are cited for deploying child soldiers in the past year, and that seven of them received American military aid, including Chad, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Rwanda, Somalia, South Sudan and Yemen. The group also cited Syria, where the government and rebels have been accused of using children in their ranks; the administration recently announced that it would begin to arm the rebels, though only after careful vetting.
The State Department's rankings are required by law, and a recent amendment by Congress forced the administration's hand in cases where countries were on a ''watch list'' for more than four consecutive years.
Russia and China had both been on the watch list since that category was introduced in 2004, and the report cited inconsistent laws and enforcement. In Russia, it said, an estimated one million people are subjected to forced labor in many industries, including construction, with the complicity of officials. Uzbekistan, the report said, routinely forces thousands of adults and children to join in the autumn cotton harvest.
David Abramowitz, director of the Alliance to End Slavery and Trafficking, said that even without sanctions, the report's rankings had an impact on countries. ''I wouldn't underestimate the stigma,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMAN TRAFFICKING (91%); SEX TRAFFICKING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LABOR TRAFFICKING (90%); CHILD TRAFFICKING (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); FINES & PENALTIES (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CHILD LABOR (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (77%); RANKINGS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); SLAVERY (73%); CHILD LABOR LAWS (71%); CHILD WELFARE (71%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (69%); CHILD SOLDIERS (66%); ARMED FORCES (61%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (53%)

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (55%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (55%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); CHINA (94%); YEMEN (93%); UZBEKISTAN (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (79%); ASIA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); RWANDA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); SYRIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2013



652 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; TRAILSIDE; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 379 words

HEADLINE: New Name Seeks A Familiar Mantle

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO

 BODY:
It has a familiar ring: A civic-minded technology executive, flush with cash and connections from his corporate exploits, concludes that he is uniquely qualified to run City Hall. 
He is not Michael R. Bloomberg. But Jack D. Hidary sure sounds like him.
Just when you thought the mayoral race could not get any busier, Mr. Hidary, 44, is preparing to toss his entrepreneur's hat into the ring. A Brooklyn native who is considering running as an independent, he has quietly set up an exploratory committee, assembled a campaign team and established a Web site, HidaryForNYC.com.
''If I did run, it would be a very viable candidacy,'' Mr. Hidary said in an interview, describing his plan for leading New York as, well, a kind of Bloomberg 2.0: socially progressive, fiscally reserved and digitally savvy.
He is essentially unknown in the city's political circles, but Mr. Hidary, a self-proclaimed public policy buff, argues his Silicon Valley résumé makes him fit for office. He started a business matching tech companies with qualified employees, which he said proved his aptitude as a creative economic problem solver.
Later, he formed a nonprofit group to encourage New York City to embrace hybrid taxicabs -- another favorite project of the Bloomberg administration. The work showcases his innovative policy thinking, he posits.
There is already a wealthy businessman in the race: John A. Catsimatidis, a supermarket and oil magnate who is running as a Republican. But Mr. Hidary said that over the past few months, a steady stream of New Yorkers had encouraged him to run. ''They say, 'Jack, we are really, really worried about New York after Bloomberg,' '' he said.
His odds seem to be long. Mr. Hidary is willing to open his own wallet for a run, but unlike Mr. Bloomberg, he intends to rely heavily on campaign donations, a time-consuming, highly regulated political ritual.
Mr. Hidary said there would be plenty of time for him to make a name for himself, raise cash and create his own ballot line for November.
''Mike Bloomberg, in the most recent election, ran as an independent and won as an independent,'' he said.
Still, not even Mr. Bloomberg waited this long to enter his first mayoral race -- in 2001, he officially jumped in during the first week of June.
MICHAEL BARBARO

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jack D. Hidary, a technology executive, is considering a mayoral bid as an independent. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (70%); INTERVIEWS (69%); PUBLIC POLICY (68%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%); JOHN CATSIMATIDIS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2013



653 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: Surveillance, in a Search for Safety

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Living With the Surveillance State,'' by Bill Keller (column, June 17), and ''Blowing the Whistle,'' by Thomas L. Friedman (column, June 12):
There is no such thing as perfect safety. Attempting to achieve it by the wholesale surrender of liberty is as discreditable to the American people as it will be ineffectual -- freezing creativity and strengthening our enemies by demonstrating a hypocritical distrust of our own ideals. 
For your columnists to urge giving the majority what it wants lest it want even worse is to forget the whole purpose of the Bill of Rights: to protect enduring values from transient majoritarian passions.
Mr. Keller and Mr. Friedman should be rallying the public against fear. They should not be encouraging the belief that panicky overkill is a sound strategy.
Nor should they be promoting the delusion that any dangers may be averted by safeguards administered by public officials whose every incentive is to subvert them.
ERIC M. FREEDMAN Hempstead, N.Y., June 17, 2013
The writer is a professor of constitutional law at Hofstra University.
To the Editor:
In his June 17 column, ''Living with the Surveillance State,'' Bill Keller agrees with Thomas L. Friedman's point that the gravest threat to our civil liberties is another attack on the scale of 9/11 that could leave a panicked public willing to ratchet up the security state.
What is so different about America's willingness and ability to deal with the modern realities of terrorism from, say, that of Britain or Israel? Far more Americans are killed in gun violence each year or in highway accidents, not to mention smoking-related deaths or the deaths of our troops in Afghanistan. American deaths caused by terrorism are but a small fraction of those from these more common tragedies. Yet the media coverage furthers our fear of terrorism.
There is a scene in an episode of ''The Sopranos'' in which Svetlana, a Russian, tells Tony that everywhere else in the world people believe that bad things will happen -- except in America, where we all believe that only good things will happen.
I would add that when disappointed, we overreact, whether it's the swelling up of our security apparatus, forming the bloated Homeland Security bureaucracy or going to war in two countries. Our politicians don't help, either; usually they are more than willing to exploit these fears.
Safety and security are not our birthright. They were never guaranteed in the Constitution, unlike our liberties, which too many of us are willing to barter away.
EUGENE COSLOY Kittery Point, Me., June 17, 2013
To the Editor:
Bill Keller has summarized the prevailing view of the inevitable rise of government surveillance in our lives. The question of monitoring those who monitor us is a difficult one, largely because it involves more government. I have nothing against government in principle, but with the rising complexity, dysfunction and rabid partisanship in all three branches, I find it hard to trust the government to protect us from itself.
I am increasingly thinking that we need a fourth branch of government, a citizens' assembly of some sort, to oversee our government between elections and to keep our officials honest. Monitoring surveillance programs would be a proper task for such an assembly -- as would setting Congressional rules of procedure and Congressional compensation.
RON L. MEYERS New York, June 17, 2013
To the Editor:
Bill Keller's column repeats the deeply depressing and defeatist argument made recently by Thomas L. Friedman: another significant terrorist attack would inevitably produce a further slide into repressive ''war-on-terror excesses,'' and thus the policies of the moment are, unfortunately, justified.
But the war on terror is not a winnable war (how can we win a war waged against a noun?). It is eternal, and the policies pursued in its name have been a disaster. Can we not hope to learn from our mistakes?
The jihadists who are intent on doing us harm cannot defeat us militarily, economically or culturally -- but they can eradicate the idea of America as a freedom-loving, peaceable nation, a bastion of liberty unlike any other. We become a different, authoritarian, security-obsessed state, and we hand them a victory they cannot otherwise achieve.
I am 79 and trust I won't live to witness the ''surveillance state'' that Mr. Keller and Mr. Friedman seem to believe is very nearly inevitable.
PETER MATSON New York, June 17, 2013

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PETER BURR) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); WRITERS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); SMOKING (66%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (63%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2013



654 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1132 words

HEADLINE: Turkish Liberals Turn Their Backs on Erdogan

BYLINE: By TIM ARANGO; Ceylan Yeginsu contributed reporting.

 BODY:
ISTANBUL -- For Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the antigovernment protests that have shaken Turkey have come with a jarring paradox: some of the protesters voted for him, most prospered from his economic policies, and some of the liberal intellectuals and columnists now calling him a dictator helped him win three successive elections with their writings.
For Turkey's liberals and urban elite, including some among the young, middle-class protesters who camped out in Gezi Park in Taksim Square here, the intense police crackdown -- the use of tear gas and water cannons, and the detention of protesters, lawyers, journalists and medics -- represented the final and most painful break with Mr. Erdogan and his Justice and Development Party.
''The Gezi Park-Taksim thing has been the breaking point for the left,'' said Cengiz Candar, a popular columnist who once supported Mr. Erdogan for his efforts to reduce the power of the military and to pursue membership in the European Union. 
''It's not us that changed,'' he added. ''We remain as democrats; we want to extend individual liberties.''
As Mr. Erdogan rose to power, many liberals, unlike members of Turkey's old secular elite, who worried about a hidden Islamist agenda, overlooked Mr. Erdogan's religious roots. They saw his faith in the context of personal freedom, not as a threat to Turkey's secular tradition. They embraced him for his pursuit of European Union membership, now stalled, and for securing civilian authority over the military, whose influence had been pre-eminent in Turkey.
Turks were joined by many Europeans and Americans, including President Obama, who embraced the democratic reforms that Mr. Erdogan implemented. Now, many of those onetime supporters say Mr. Erdogan and his party have taken a decisive turn toward authoritarianism, leaving them to face a period of self-reflection.
''I was one of the European liberals who supported A.K.P. policies,'' said Joost Lagendijk, a former member of the European Parliament and columnist who lives in Turkey, referring to the Turkish initials of Mr. Erdogan's party. ''There was a lot of sympathy for the reforms they were implementing.''
Mr. Lagendijk said that he was never an ideological bedfellow of the A.K.P., but that he was attracted by Mr. Erdogan's early pragmatism and by his support for constitutional changes to secure individual liberties and advances in rights for Turkey's Kurdish minority.
''I'm a Green, I'm a liberal,'' he said. ''I'm not conservative or religious, but it didn't matter.''
These days, Mr. Lagendijk has had to fend off critics from his own liberal flank, who have been sending him Twitter messages and e-mails that all conveyed the same message: We told you so.
Over the past few years, Mr. Erdogan had begun alienating his liberal supporters by intimidating the news media and pursuing large urban development projects without public feedback. Then in recent weeks a group of protesters trying to save a city park from demolition were met with a fierce police response, setting off the larger antigovernment street movement that challenged Mr. Erdogan, whose response to the crisis confirmed for many of his former supporters that he had taken a path they could no longer support.
Beyond his democratic promises, many experts say Mr. Erdogan's charisma won over many liberals years ago.
Jenny B. White, an anthropologist at Boston University, spent time in Turkey in the 1990s researching the rise of Islamist movements, and followed Mr. Erdogan around while he was mayor of Istanbul.
''He would ignore a table of bearded mayors after an event and talk to me like I was the only person in the world,'' she said. ''There is that aspect of it that really captured people.''
She added, ''The liberals voted for him because when he was elected in 2002 he did all these things liberals only dreamed of.''
Not all on the left have broken with Mr. Erdogan. Nursuna Memecan, a member of Parliament from the A.K.P. who is close to Mr. Erdogan and identifies herself as a liberal, said she helped arrange meetings between some of the protest leaders and Mr. Erdogan in hope of brokering a compromise, and winning back some of his former supporters. That did not happen, though, as a tentative deal to save the park was disavowed by most protesters, and Mr. Erdogan ordered a decisive police raid on Saturday to clear the park.
Referring to Mr. Erdogan's rise to power, Ms. Memecan said: ''The real liberals supported him. They had no prejudices against him or his religion or what class he came from. His piousness did not bother them.''
Another paradox of Turkey's uprising is that many of those now critical of his position -- a cross section of urban, secular, mostly middle-class Turks -- have benefited from the growing economy that Mr. Erdogan's liberalizing policies created.
Merve Alici, 26, works in advertising and participated in the protests. She comes from a secular, upper-middle-class family, but voted for Mr. Erdogan's party in the last election despite warnings from her family that the prime minister was becoming too powerful.
She said her choice was ''mainly pragmatic.''
''First, there was no opposition, and I liked how the A.K.P. challenged the army's power,'' she said. ''Then there is the economy. Everyone wants stability and economic prosperity, and this was a campaign promise.''
She said she took part in the Taksim Square demonstrations every day, and because of that she could never vote for Mr. Erdogan again, especially after he called the protesters terrorists and unleashed riot police officers on the crowds.
''He is a political mastermind and is manipulating the truth on purpose to keep his voters,'' Ms. Alici said. ''He antagonizes the protesters on purpose with his harsh words. I don't know what he is thinking.''
Another former Erdogan supporter who joined in the protests was Esen Guler, 39, a guitarist whose band played in the square.
''I voted for Erdogan in the past two elections because I thought he would lead us to democracy,'' he said. ''But power has gone to his head. He is no longer moderate, but a brutal dictator attacking his own flesh and blood.''
Workers have been planting flowers in Taksim Square and scrubbing away the spray-painted epithets against Mr. Erdogan. When the square was filled with thousands of protesters, many of them young and expressing themselves politically for the first time, a common refrain among analysts was that Turkish politics would never be the same. Now that the square has been emptied by the strong hand of the police, the significance of what happened feels less certain.
''The wounds are still fresh,'' Mr. Candar said. ''The lessons to be interpreted are still at an early stage. It's hard to say how it will be different, but for sure it will be different.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Former supporters of Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan say his response to the Taksim Square protests was the final straw. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ED OU FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); WRITERS (90%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (90%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); RELIGION (70%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (65%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (82%)

PERSON: RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN (93%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (92%) TURKEY (96%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2013



655 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED GUEST COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: Preparing For the Pope

BYLINE: By MARIE ARANA. 
Marie Arana, a journalist and biographer of Simon Bolívar, is a guest columnist. Gail Collins is off today.

 BODY:
In April, in the sunlit city of Natal, Brazil, two men knocked on Sandra Abdalla's door to apply for a painting job. Their pitch, as she described it in an e-mail: they were evangelical Christians and therefore more reliable than the competition. They didn't drink, raise hell or steal, as a Catholic might. In a country that boasts the largest Roman Catholic population in the world -- and a quickly rising tide of evangelicals -- those are fighting words. Not least to Pope Francis, an Argentine who will visit Brazil next month, in the first trip of his papacy. 
The new pontiff represents many beginnings: first Latin American, first Jesuit, first to take the name of St. Francis of Assisi, first to hail from the Southern Hemisphere, first non-European in 1,272 years. His election represents a clear shift in Catholicism's center of gravity away from Europe: almost 40 percent of Catholics today live in Latin America and the Caribbean (about 28 percent are in Asia or Africa); in 1910, 65 percent were European. The choice also signals a church in fighting mode. As the late Rev. Edward L. Cleary, an American specialist in Latin American politics, put it, ''the future of the Catholic Church lies south of the border.'' It is counting on Latin America to save its soul.
For 500 years since the cross was planted in the Western Hemisphere -- since the first American priest received his holy orders -- the Latin American church has been defined by race and class. Bartolomé de las Casas, the first priest to be ordained in the New World, around 1513, and the first to denounce the oppression of indigenous Americans, turned the theology upside down. Instead of the top-down, rigid hierarchy practiced in Rome, he wanted a grass-roots perspective. The Jesuits, self-proclaimed ''soldiers of God,'' agreed. For the next 260 years, they often aligned with the continent's Indians and, as a result, were booted out by Portuguese and Spanish officials, in the 1750s and 1760s.
Two centuries later, in the 1960s, as Communism made inroads, Latin American priests rode the winds of the Second Vatican Council to focus anew on poverty and social justice. A full-fledged ''liberation theology'' followed and, for preaching it, many were excommunicated, some by Francis's predecessor, Benedict XVI, who retired in February.
Latin America remains fervently Catholic -- the church boasts the region's highest level of confidence in any institution (around 70 percent) -- but there is evidence that it may be losing ground to evangelicals like those who knocked on the Abdallas' door. Pentecostals, who numbered 12 million in the 1970s (along with Charismatic Christians), today make up an estimated 75 million. That is a mere 13 percent of the overall population, but in Brazil, those new evangelicals represent one in four Brazilians.
That's serious erosion. But, according to Rogelio Saenz, dean of the College of Public Policy at the University of Texas, San Antonio, and a specialist on Catholic demographics, Francis may turn the tide: ''A Latin American pope will bring a greater degree of attachment to the church.'' It makes no difference that he's Argentine. He is embraced, Saenz says, because he promises greater inclusion.
Within hours of the pope's election, in March, a major supermarket chain in Lima, Peru, was giving out prayer cards with his image. The faithful danced and sang in the streets of Quito, Ecuador. Ecstatic graffiti appeared on slum walls in Buenos Aires, where Francis, as Cardinal Jorge Bergoglio, was archbishop. Prayer circles proliferated throughout the Americas. Banners flapped out of windows. Airlines have been selling out of plane tickets to Brazil in advance of the visit. The presidents of Mexico, Uruguay, Ecuador and Venezuela rushed to deepen ties with the Vatican.
For all the guesswork about the pope's Sphinx-like comments about a ''gay lobby,'' or his elliptical suggestion that priestly celibacy could change, Latin Americans expect concrete outcomes from their pontiff: a revival of concern for the poor; a renewed effort to rebuild the church, as St. Francis was called to do; a rejection of the blind pursuit of profit that the pope argues has scarred the human spirit. Brazil -- with a woman as president, a cabinet that is a quarter female, and businesses with robust female leadership that puts the United States to shame -- will expect much from a man who has emphasized the importance of women.
Most of all, however, Latin American Catholics, who are largely social conservatives, will look to Francis for a return to core values: honoring the poor, the helpless, the unborn, the family, the environment, the Commandments. All this, even though developing countries have some of the world's highest abortion rates; even though gay men and lesbians are knocking at the door; even though the profit motive has created an economic boom. As Sylvia Koehne, a homemaker and cousin of mine in Lima, told me: ''Faith in our new pope is great. So much so, that we Latin Americans may now end up evangelizing Europe as avidly as it once evangelized us.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (95%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (95%); RELIGION (94%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (78%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (77%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (68%)

PERSON: POPE BENEDICT XVI (79%); POPE FRANCIS I (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ROME, ITALY (77%) LATIN AMERICA (96%); BRAZIL (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); ASIA (79%); ITALY (77%); PORTUGAL (76%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (53%)

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2013



656 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1213 words

HEADLINE: Obama Says Surveillance Helped in Case in Germany

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES; Alison Smale, Melissa Eddy and Chris Cottrell contributed reporting.

 BODY:
BERLIN -- Pressed personally by Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany about the United States' surveillance of foreigners' phone and e-mail traffic, President Obama said Wednesday that terrorist threats in her country were among those foiled by such intelligence operations worldwide -- a contention that Ms. Merkel seemed to confirm.
Their remarks, made first in private during Mr. Obama's state visit here, and then publicly in a joint news conference, were evidence that the surveillance controversy set off by leaked documents from a former National Security Agency contractor, Edward J. Snowden, had followed the president overseas as he concluded a three-day diplomatic trip to Europe.
That disclosure has been particularly provocative in Germany, where the history of the Nazi era and then postwar surveillance in Communist East Germany have left a legacy of national concern for privacy and civil liberties. 
Ms. Merkel, who grew up in East Germany, reflected that sensitivity in raising the issue with Mr. Obama. Yet she also expressed support for such operations, if balanced by ''due diligence'' to guard citizens' privacy rights, and said Germany had received ''very important information'' from its cooperation with the Americans against international terrorism.
The leaders' exchanges on that and other issues preceded Mr. Obama's outdoors address to about 4,500 people on the eastern side of the historic Brandenburg Gate, the side long closed off by the Berlin Wall, built by the former Sovier Union.President Bill Clinton had given a memorable address on that side in in 1994, seven years after President Ronald Reagan, from the western side, famously challenged the Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev: ''Mr. Gorbachev, open this gate! Mr. Gorbachev, tear down this wall!'' It fell two years later.
Mr. Obama's address came 50 years after President John F. Kennedy, in another celebrated speech here, spoke outside a town hall to affirm support for Germans against the nuclear-armed Soviets. By contrast, Mr. Obama used his speech to propose that the United States and Russia reduce their nuclear arsenals by a third.
''Our fates and fortunes are linked like never before,'' he said. ''We may no longer live in fear of global annihilation, but so long as nuclear weapons exist, we are not truly safe.''
Officials said 4,500 people were present, fewer than the 6,000 tickets distributed -- perhaps reflecting the scorching heat. Even so, that was far fewer than the 450,000 who saw Mr. Kennedy or the 200,000 who packed a park to hear Mr. Obama in 2008, when he was a presidential candidate. Then, Ms. Merkel had discouraged his use of the Brandenburg Gate site, saying it should not be used for politicking. This time she invited him to use it.
The anticipation of Mr. Obama's address, though, was offset by attention to revelations of the breadth of the two United States surveillance programs -- one a huge database logging American phone calls and the other, called Prism, to monitor foreign communications at Internet companies and through phone logs without individual warrants.
At their news conference, Ms. Merkel said she and Mr. Obama had discussed the surveillance issue at length, indicating that it took precedence over subjects like the global economy and conflicts in Syria and Afghanistan. In turn, Mr. Obama justified the operations at length.
''We know of at least 50 threats that have been averted because of this information, not just in the United States but in some cases threats here in Germany,'' he said. ''So lives have been saved.''
He did not provide details. But Ms. Merkel cited the ''Sauerland cell'' in Germany as an example of the benefits of surveillance and information sharing with the Americans. In that case, four Islamic militants were sentenced to up to 12 years in prison in 2010 for plotting terrorist attacks against American targets in Germany. They were apprehended in 2007 and confessed in 2009. The Central Intelligence Agency was presumed at the time to have tipped off the German authorities.
Yet Ms. Merkel, sensitive to Germans' privacy concerns and facing re-election this year, made clear that she had expressed her own concerns. ''Although we do see the need for gathering information,'' she said, ''there needs to be due diligence.''
Mr. Obama countered that he made sure when he took office that the programs ''were examined and scrubbed.'' He explained, as he has to American audiences, that the United States monitored only metadata on phone numbers linked to suspected terrorist activities, and did not eavesdrop on the content of calls or e-mails without a court order.
''We do have to strike a balance, and we do have to be cautious about how our governments are operating when it comes to intelligence,'' Mr. Obama said. But, he added, ''This is not a situation in which we are rifling through the ordinary e-mails of German citizens or American citizens or French citizens or anybody else.''
Despite the controversy, the leaders' interactions displayed a mutual respect and even closeness developed over nearly five years of coordinating on economic and security crises.
Mr. Obama repeatedly called the chancellor ''Angela.'' When she addressed him in German, she used ''du,'' the familiar form of the pronoun ''you.'' When they posed for photographers before dinner at a former palace, the two joked in English, causing the president to twice double over in laughter. Michelle Obama and Ms. Merkel's husband, Joachim Sauer, conversed separately.
On most issues, the two leaders signaled their agreement, including on allied efforts to provide more aid to the Syrian insurgency, and plans for international forces to leave Afghanistan next year. Both said at the news conference that Syria's president, Bashar al-Assad, had lost legitimacy. Both expressed hope for a new government without him, even as they acknowledged the strong opposition that President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, Mr. Assad's ally, expressed when the leaders of the Group of 8 industrial nations gathered in Northern Ireland this week for their annual summit meeting.
Mr. Obama and Ms. Merkel were vague about their differences on economic policy. The Obama administration has pressed euro zone countries, in particular Germany, to provide stimulus or at least soften the demands for austerity measures and budget-cutting from indebted European nations.
American surveillance was not the only controversy to dog Mr. Obama in Germany. While some newspapers carried headlines like ''Welcome to Berlin,'' the left-leaning Berlin Daily Taz jabbed him with, ''Mr. Obama, open this gate!'' accompanying a photo of the barbed-wire gate at the detention center in Guantánamo Bay, Cuba, which the president had promised in 2008 to close. Amnesty International held a modest protest near the hotel where Mr. Obama and his family were staying. As a far greater number of police officers looked on, 14 people in orange jumpsuits like those worn by prison detainees chained themselves together and chanted, ''Yes, you can! Close Guantánamo!''
A German reporter raised the issue at the news conference. ''It's been more difficult than I had hoped,'' given Congressional resistance, to close the prison, Mr. Obama said, but added that he would ''redouble'' his efforts.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama, on Wednesday at Brandenburg Gate, said the United States and Russia should reduce their nuclear arsenals. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL SOHN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (78%); TERRORISM (77%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (56%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); ANGELA MERKEL (90%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); EDWARD SNOWDEN (77%); BILL CLINTON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (89%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2013



657 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 626 words

HEADLINE: While Claiming Battle Gains Against Rebels, Syria's Assad Is Facing Currency Crisis

BYLINE: By RICK GLADSTONE; Fares Akram contributed reporting from Gaza.

 BODY:
Even as President Bashar al-Assad of Syria is proclaiming battlefield momentum against the insurgency with the help of his Hezbollah ally, he appears to be facing a new threat: a rapidly weakening currency that has unnerved many Syrians.
The currency, the Syrian pound, fell about 30 percent in value against the dollar over the weekend, partly on news that the United States intended to arm some elements of the rebellion seeking to topple Mr. Assad. 
Money traders and economists said the plunge might have been accelerated by the apparent unwillingness -- or inability -- of Syria's Central Bank to halt it by buying pounds with dollars or euros, suggesting the government's supply of foreign exchange reserves is running low.
The Central Bank governor, Adib Mayalah, announced Tuesday that to help stabilize the pound, Syria would tap into a $1 billion credit line provided by Iran. That appeared to be helping on Wednesday. But the effects of that aid are considered temporary at best, as Iran is facing its own severe financial constraints.
For Mr. Assad, a number of basic financial problems appear to be coalescing after more than two years of conflict: Western sanctions that have collapsed Syria's main money-earning industries of oil and tourism, a near-collapse of regular commerce inside the country and the cost of fighting the insurgency, which has left more than 93,000 people dead and millions displaced.
The pound, which traded at about 47 per dollar before the uprising against Mr. Assad began in March 2011, has been eroding gradually since then and was trading at 170 per dollar last week. Money traders in Syria and the United States said it nose-dived starting last Friday and had weakened to 220 per dollar by Monday, reflecting some chaotic selling by Syrians worried that the pound could weaken further and wipe out their savings if they did not convert to dollars or euros.
Syria experts who once estimated the Central Bank had at least $17 billion in foreign exchange reserves before the conflict now believe that, because of Mr. Assad's international isolation and the cost of the war, that amount has dwindled to as little as $2 billion.
''Syria's government doesn't have cash,'' said Andrew J. Tabler, a Syria scholar at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy. ''They might be good at shooting people, but they're not so good at the economic stuff.''
Others said the Central Bank's effort this week to arrest the pound's decline had strengthened it to about 190 per dollar by Wednesday, but they suspected the pound would resume falling.
Some were suggesting it could go to 500 to the dollar, which could cause enormous inflation problems in Syria.
A Syrian expatriate currency market trader, who spoke on condition of anonymity because he has relatives in the country, said he believed the credit line from Iran was a short-term psychological tool and might not even exist. A further strengthening of the pound would be a telling indicator.
''Unless they're able to knock it back to 150, I would imagine it would just be a cosmetic process,'' he said. ''I'm personally extremely skeptical.''
In a separate possible signal of Iran's frugality, officials of the Palestinian militant organization Hamas, which governs the Gaza Strip, said Wednesday that Iranian financial assistance had declined sharply in recent months. They attributed it to Hamas's decision to break with Mr. Assad over his efforts to crush the Syria uprising.
''We are suffering from a financial crisis and we are trying to go beyond the problem,'' said Ghazi Hamad, deputy minister of foreign affairs in the Hamas government.
Officials in Gaza refused to disclose figures, but experts in Gaza estimated that Iran had been channeling about $20 million a month to Gaza.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (92%); BRITISH POUND (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (75%); HEZBOLLAH (73%); DISPLACED PERSONS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (84%)

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SYRIA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2013



658 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1275 words

HEADLINE: How Immigration Reform Would Help the Economy

BYLINE: SIMON JOHNSON


HIGHLIGHT: The United States has always benefited from immigration and will continue to do so, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Simon Johnson, former chief economist of the International Monetary Fund, is the Ronald A. Kurtz Professor of Entrepreneurship at the M.I.T. Sloan School of Management and co-author of "White House Burning: The Founding Fathers, Our National Debt, and Why It Matters to You." 
After many months of rival assertions by interested parties, we finally have an authoritative assessment by an impartial referee of the effects of the so-called Gang of Eight senators' proposed legislation on immigration. On Tuesday, based on work with the Joint Committee on Taxation, the Congressional Budget Office released two reports - one on the direct federal budget impact and one on the broader and longer-run economic effects, with a helpful summary blog post by the office's director, Douglas Elmendorf).
The assessment is positive. This precise immigration proposal would improve the budget picture and stimulate economic growth. The immediate effects are good and the more lasting effects even better. If anything, the long-run positive effects are likely to be even larger than the C.B.O. is willing to predict, in my assessment. (I'm a member of the office's Panel of Economic Advisers but I was not involved in any way in this work.) 
The debate over immigration is emotionally charged and, judging from recent blog posts, the Heritage Foundation in particular seems primed to dispute every detail in the C.B.O. approach - and to assert that it is underestimating some costs (including what happens when illegal immigrants receive an amnesty and subsequently claim government-provided benefits, a point Heritage has emphasized in its own report).
There is good reason for the C.B.O.'s careful wording in its analysis; it operates within narrow guidelines set by Congress, and its staff is wise to stick to very well-documented points. Still, as the legislation gains potential traction, it is worth keeping in mind why there could be an even larger upside for the American economy.

In 1776, the population of the United States was around 2.5 million; it is now more than 316 million (you can check the real-time Census Bureau population clock, but of course that is only an estimate).
Think about this: What if the original inhabitants had not allowed immigration or imposed very tight restrictions - for example, insisting that immigrants already have a great deal of education? It's hard to imagine that the United States would have risen as an economy and as a country. How many United States citizens reading this column would be here today? (I'm proud to be an immigrant and a United States citizen.)
The long-term strength of the United States economy lies in its ability to create jobs. For more than 200 years as a republic (and 400 years in total) immigrants have not crowded together on a fixed amount of existing resources - land (in the early days) or factories (from the early 1800s) or the service sector (where most modern jobs arise). Rather the availability of resources essential for labor productivity has increased sharply. Land is improved, infrastructure is built and companies develop.
Most economic analysis about immigration looks at wages and asks whether natives win or lose when more immigrants show up in particular place or with certain skills. At the low end of wage distribution, there is reason to fear adverse consequences for particular groups because of increased competition for jobs. In fact, the C.B.O. does find that income per capita would decline slightly over the next 10 years before increasing in the subsequent 10 years: "Relative to what would occur under current law, S. 744 would lower per capita G.N.P. by 0.7 percent in 2023 and raise it by 0.2 percent in 2033, according to C.B.O.'s central estimates."
And it is reasonable to ask who will pay how much into our tax system - and who will receive what kind of benefits. This is the terrain that the C.B.O. and the Heritage Foundation are contesting. (See, too, a letter to Senator Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida, from Stephen Gross, the chief actuary of the Social Security Administration. Mr. Gross said immigration reform would be a net positive; of the current 11.5 illegal immigrants, "many of these individuals already work in the country in the underground economy, not paying taxes, and will begin paying taxes" if the immigration legislation are adopted. New illegal immigration would decline but not be eliminated.)
But the longer-run picture is most obviously quite different. The process of creating businesses and investing - what economists like to call capital formation - is much more dynamic than allowed for in many economic models.
People will save and they will invest. Companies will be created. The crucial question is who will have the ideas that shape the 21st century. (See, for example, the work of Charles I. Jones of Stanford University on this point and a paper he and Paul Romer wrote for a broader audience.)
This is partly about education - and the proposed legislation would tilt new visas more toward skilled workers, particularly those in science, technology, engineering, and math (often referred to as STEM).
But it would be a mistake to limited those admitted - or those allowed legal status and eventual citizenship - to people who already have or are in the process of getting a university-level education. To be clear, under the new system there may well be more low-wage immigrants than high-wage immigrants, but the transition to a point system for allocating green cards is designed to increase the share of people with more education and more scientific education, relative to the situation today and relative to what would otherwise occur.
Many people have good ideas. The Internet has opened up the process of innovation. I don't know anyone who can predict where the next big technologies will come from. I also don't know who will figure out how to organize production - including the provision of services - in a more effective manner.
We are competing in a world economy based on human capital, and people's skills and abilities are the basis for our productivity. What we need more than anything, from an economic point of view, is more people (of any age or background) who want to acquire and apply new skills.
Increasing the size of our domestic market over the last 400 years has served us well. Allowing in immigrants in a fiscally responsible manner makes a great deal of sense - and the reports from the Joint Committee on Taxation and C.B.O. are very clear that this is now what is on the table. If the children of immigrants want to get more education, we should welcome the opportunity that this presents. When you cut off the path to higher education, you are depriving people of opportunity - and you are also hurting the economy.
The deeper political irony, of course, is that if the Heritage Foundation and its allies succeed in defeating immigration legislation, there are strong indications that this will hurt the Republican Party at the polls over the next decade and beyond. Yet, even so, House Republicans seem inclined to oppose immigration reform. That would be a mistake on both economic and political grounds.
We are 316 million people in a world of more than 7 billion - on its way to 10 billion or more.
We should reform immigration along the lines currently suggested and increase the supply of skilled labor in the world. This will both improve our economy and, at least potentially, help ensure the world stays more prosperous and more stable.

        
Tightening the Border
        
The Challenge of Securing the Border
        
Who Pays the Corporate Income Tax
        
Immigration and Innovation
        
Can Tax Cuts Pay for Themselves?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); BUDGETS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); WRITERS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (74%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); CENSUS (71%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (70%); JOB CREATION (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); POPULATION SIZE (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (68%) Congressional Budget Office; Immigration and Emigration; Law and Legislation; United States Economy; Today's Economist

ORGANIZATION: Congressional Budget Office

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2013



659 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2013

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 632 words

HEADLINE: 27 Million People Said to Live in 'Modern Slavery'

BYLINE: DIDI KIRSTEN TATLOW


HIGHLIGHT: A new report by the U.S. State Department says as many as 27 million people live in modern slavery, and more needs to be done to counter this cruel exploitation and violation of human dignity. 

 BODY:
BEIJING - 7:37 p.m. | Updated On Monday, we wrote about human trafficking and forced labor - or modern slavery, as it's often called - and said the United Nations defines it as a fast-growing problem.
Two days later, on Wednesday in the United States, the State Department released a report that gives another, higher figure for how many people are working in slavery in our world today - as many as 27 million (as opposed to the International Labor Organization's 21 million), and it placed three more countries in the worst offenders category, bringing the total to 21: Russia, China and Uzbekistan. Already in the category: Algeria, Libya, Saudi Arabia and Kuwait, among others. 
The "Trafficking in Persons Report", dated June 2013, provides 415 pages of stories, analysis and photographs, showing a kind of human suffering and inhumanity that is hard, perhaps, to grasp as coexisting alongside the tweeting, iPad-tapping, well-fed comfort of much of the developed world, but is a reality for millions of poor people, the report made clear. It affects women, men, girls and boys, and includes sexual slavery as well as a wide range of other labor, from child soldiering to domestic servitude to gold mining.
In an introduction to the report, Secretary of State John Kerry, wrote: "Ending modern slavery must remain a foreign policy priority. Fighting this crime wherever it exists is in our national interest. Human tracking undermines the rule of law and creates instability. It tears apart families and communities. It damages the environment and corrupts the global supply chains and labor markets that keep the world's economies thriving."
Mr. Kerry spoke of the "moral obligation" to end a practice that contravenes our "human dignity."
By identifying three more countries as so-called "Tier 3" countries on human trafficking, the U.S. is saying they are "countries whose governments do not fully comply with the minimum standards and are not making significant efforts to do so."
This opens them up to sanctions. Will that happen?
If there's a moral obligation to end the problem, there's also politics, as my colleague in Washington, Steven Lee Myers, suggested.
"In the past, the White House has routinely waived potential sanctions for countries with important strategic value to the United States, including Kuwait, Saudi Arabia and Yemen, which the latest report again cited for poor records on forced labor, child labor, prostitution and, in Yemen's case, the remnants of chattel slavery," Steve wrote.
"Countries clearly at odds with American policy including - Cuba and North Korea - have been subject to sanctions."
In the report, officials said China had shown "modest signs of interest in anti-trafficking reforms" but "the Chinese government did not demonstrate significant efforts to comprehensively prohibit and punish all forms of trafficking and to prosecute traffickers."
So far, the White House has not commented on whether it would impose sanctions on the three countries. And there was no immediate comment from China, where key types of human trafficking include brides from other Asian nations, children for childless couples (especially boys) and the mentally disabled, for their free labor.
UPDATE: Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying has said China attached "great importance to fighting all crimes of trafficking", the BBC reported.
"We believe that the US side should take an objective and impartial view of China's efforts and stop making unilateral or arbitrary judgements of China," Ms. Hua said.

        
North Korean Missile Could Be in Japanese Cross Hairs
        
A Cash Chokehold on North Korea Gets Tighter
        
Is There Another Way Forward Over North Korea?
        
China Assails U.S. 'Arrogance' in Report on Religious Freedom
        
Chinese Lining Up in Record Numbers to Visit the U.S.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (91%); SLAVERY (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CHILD TRAFFICKING (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); HUMAN TRAFFICKING (90%); SEX TRAFFICKING (89%); LABOR TRAFFICKING (89%); CHILD LABOR (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); CHILD LABOR LAWS (87%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); FAMILY (70%); CHILD SOLDIERS (66%) Kerry, John; Myers, Steven Lee; Child Labor; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Forced Labor; Human Trafficking; Prostitution; Reuters Group Plc; State Department; China; Kuwait; North Korea; Yemen; View From Asia

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Reuters Group Plc; State Department

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (89%) Kerry, John; Myers, Steven Lee

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (74%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (94%); YEMEN (94%); KUWAIT (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); UZBEKISTAN (79%); ASIA (79%) China; Kuwait; North Korea; Yemen

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2013



660 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2013

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 550 words

HEADLINE: IHT Quick Read: June 20

BYLINE: THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE


HIGHLIGHT: Silicon Valley and the U.S. government converge; unemployment in the Philippines; success for HPV vaccine; James Gandolfini dies; and modest goals for Tahiti&#8217;s soccer team. 

 BODY:
 NEWS Pressed personally by Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany about the United States' surveillance of foreigners' phone and e-mail traffic, President Obama said Wednesday that terrorist threats in her country were among those foiled by such intelligence operations worldwide - a contention that Ms. Merkel seemed to confirm. Jackie Calmes reports from Berlin. 
The convergence between Silicon Valley and the N.S.A. and the rise of data mining - both as an industry and as a crucial intelligence tool - have created a complex reality. Silicon Valley has what the spy agency wants: vast amounts of private data and the most sophisticated software available to analyze it. James Risen reports from Washington, and Nick Wingfield from Seattle.
For an urban elite in Turkey, including some protesters, Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan's response to demonstrations has led to a final break that began with his intimidation of the news media. Tim Arango reports from Istanbul.
The Philippines has the fastest-growing economy in East Asia. But unemployment is still rising and the number of people in poverty has barely changed in six years. Floyd Whaley reports from Manila.
In a bid to regain control of a peace process with the Taliban that had suddenly spun out of control, President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan on Wednesday slammed the brakes on two strategic lines of American negotiation, again exercising his power in a strained alliance and getting results. Alissa J. Rubin reports from Kabul, and Rod Nordland from Doha, Qatar.
New protests swept through São Paulo on Wednesday, snarling traffic and raising pressure on political leaders. Simon Romero reports from São Paulo.
Since the state broadcaster in Greece was shut down last week and its 2,600 employees fired, there has been an outpouring of solidarity, despite its long history of mismanagement and patronage. Liz Alderman reports from Athens and Rachel Donadio from Rome.
The prevalence of dangerous strains of the human papillomavirus - the most common sexually transmitted infection in the United States and a principal cause of cervical cancer - has dropped by half among teenage girls in recent years, a striking measure of success for a vaccine against the virus that was introduced only in 2006, federal health officials said on Wednesday. Sabrina Tavernise reports.
Switzerland's Parliament on Wednesday scuttled an information-sharing agreement with the United States that the Swiss government had hailed just weeks ago as a breakthrough in a dispute over banking secrecy, but left open the possibility for another solution. David Jolly reports.
 ARTS James Gandolfini, the Emmy Award-winning actor who shot to fame on the HBO drama "The Sopranos" as Tony Soprano, a tough-talking, hard-living crime boss with a stolid exterior but a rich interior life, died on Wednesday. He was 51. Dave Itzkoff reports.
Information about a man celebrated for saving Jews is being removed from the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum in light of evidence that the tales may be untrue. Patricia Cohen reports.
 SPORTS Tahiti, a soccer team made up almost exclusively of amateurs, still can't believe it made it as far as the Confederations Cup. The coach admits: "We are honest. Tahiti has not come to win." James Montague reports from Rio de Janeiro.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SOCCER (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (90%); ESPIONAGE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (88%); VACCINES (86%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (84%); INTERNET PRIVACY (78%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); TALIBAN (77%); TERRORISM (77%); DATA MINING (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); ORGANIZED CRIME (73%); CELEBRITIES (73%); POOR POPULATION (69%); PEACE PROCESS (68%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (67%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (67%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (67%); VIRUSES (67%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (64%); DISMISSALS (63%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (63%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (62%); CERVICAL CANCER (62%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (62%); JEWS & JUDAISM (60%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (60%); HOLOCAUST (60%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (60%); CANCER (50%) IHT Rendezvous

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (88%); BARACK OBAMA (72%); HAMAD KARZAI (57%); RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (91%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); MANILA, PHILIPPINES (79%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (76%); ATHENS, GREECE (68%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); PHILIPPINES (93%); SWITZERLAND (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); GERMANY (92%); GREECE (79%); TURKEY (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); QATAR (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2013



661 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 542 words

HEADLINE: The Early Word: Climactic

BYLINE: ASHLEY SOUTHALL


HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today&#8217;s Times and around the Web, plus a look at what&#8217;s happening in Washington. 

 BODY:
 In Today's Times: 
President Obama's decision to sidestep Congress on climate change in the coming weeks byannouncing new limits on carbon dioxide emissions for existing power plants will probably ignite a legal battle with Republicans and some industries, even though the plants are the "largest single source of global warming pollution in the country," John M. Broder writes. 
Clarifying plans that seemed to confuse the financial markets, the Federal Reserve said that it would scale back its economic stimulus programs over the next year but only if unemployment continues to fall at or better than the rate the central bank hopes, Binyamin Appelbaum writes.
Sheryl Stolberg profiles Ken Mehlman, the once-closeted gay Republican operative who helped President George W. Bush win re-election on a platform that included opposition to same-sex marriage, as he tries to persuade his fellow Republicans to reverse course and support same-sex marriage.
James Risen and Nick Wingfield mine the "complex reality" created by the deepening bond between the technology firms of Silicon Valley and the national intelligence community, a relationship that was highlighted when the top security official at Facebook left to work at the National Security Agency.
On a tastier topic, Jennifer Steinhauer looks at how Michelle Obama is using a culinary contest to encourage healthy cooking at home, the third prong of her childhood fitness agenda, which includes more exercise and better school lunches.
John Harwood explains how Mr. Obama's near-complete absence from a quarter of the 50 states reflects "routine cost-benefit calculations of the modern presidency" that may have consequences "in a country splintered by partisanship and race."
 Around the Web: 
The inspector general of the Office of Personnel Management will tell Congress on Thursday that some federal contractors and workers faked thousands of background checks used to gain security clearance as their work went without oversight, Bloomberg News reports. That process will be the focus of a joint hearing of panels under the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs at 2:30 p.m.
By a vote of 93-4, the Senate confirmed Michael Froman as the next United States trade representative, despite opposition mainly from Democrats who said he needed to make negotiations over a major trade agreement more transparent, according to The Hill.
 Happening in Washington: 
Economic reports expected Thursday include weekly jobless claims at 8:30 a.m., followed at 10 a.m. by weekly mortgage ratesand May's leading indicators and existing home sales.
The House will continue debate on the farm bill after it convenes at 9 a.m.
The Supreme Court issues its latest orders and decisions at 10 a.m.
At noon, House Speaker John A. Boehner, Republican of Ohio, will deliver the keynote address at the annual summit of the National Association of Manufacturers.
At 2:45 p.m., members of the Senate Armed Services Committee will get a confidential briefingon the National Security Agency's electronic surveillance programs.
Karen Mills, the administrator of the Small Business Administration, and Jack Dorsey, a founding executive of Twitter and Square, take part in events for National Small Business Week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); POWER PLANTS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (76%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (75%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (74%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (74%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (71%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (71%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (71%); INTEREST RATES (70%); MORTGAGE RATES (70%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (70%); HUMAN RESOURCES (69%); MARRIAGE (68%); MORTGAGE LOANS (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (66%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (65%); EXISTING HOME SALES (60%) The Caucus

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (55%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%)

PERSON: MICHELLE OBAMA (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); JOHN BOEHNER (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (70%) CALIFORNIA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2013



662 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 432 words

HEADLINE: Former Trader Appears in London Court on Libor Fraud Charges

BYLINE: JULIA WERDIGIER


HIGHLIGHT: Tom A.W. Hayes, a former trader at UBS and Citigroup who is facing fraud charges, made his first appearance in a London court on Thursday. 

 BODY:
LONDON - Tom A.W. Hayes, a former trader at UBS and Citigroup who has been charged with fraud tied to the manipulation of global benchmark interest rates, made his first appearance in a London court on Thursday. 
Standing behind a glass wall with his hands in his pockets, Mr. Hayes, 33, listened as eight fraud charges against him were read out. The charges cover a period from August 2006 to September 2010 - half related to his time at UBS and half to his time at Citigroup in Japan.
Mr. Hayes faces charges of conspiring with employees at financial institutions including UBS, Citigroup, JPMorgan Chase, Royal Bank of Scotland, Deutsche Bank, Rabobank, Tullett Prebon, ICAP and RP Martin to seek to manipulate yen London interbank offered rates, or Libor.
His lawyer, Lydia Jonson, did not enter a plea on his behalf.
Mr. Hayes, who wore a blue shirt, beige trousers and brown shoes, spoke only to confirm his name and give his address and date of birth. Mr. Hayes is to remain on bail, which means he is not allowed to leave or attempt to leave Britain, pending his next court hearing, which is scheduled to be at Southwark Crown Court on July 4.
The charges against Mr. Hayes are the first brought against an individual by British prosecutors in the rate-rigging scandal. Mr. Hayes, a British citizen, and another former UBS trader, Roger Darin, 41, of Switzerland, have been charged with conspiracy by the United States Justice Department in a criminal complaint that was unsealed in December. United States prosecutors have also charged Mr. Hayes with price fixing, stemming from an accusation that he had collaborated with another bank to rig interest rates.
The new charges were filed nearly a year after the first settlement in the Libor case, when Barclays of Britain agreed to pay $450 million to British and American authorities. American and British authorities later reached a settlement with Royal Bank of Scotland, which agreed in February to pay $612 million over its role in the Libor scandal.
As part of a settlement with United States authorities last year, UBS agreed to pay $1.5 billion and its Japanese subsidiary pleaded guilty to one count of felony wire fraud.
UBS is one of more than a dozen global banks at the center of a continuing investigation by authorities in the United States and Britain into the manipulation of Libor, which serves as a benchmark to help set the borrowing costs for trillions of dollars of financial products like mortgages, business loans and credit cards.

        
Britain Charges Former Trader in Libor Inquiry
        
Rate Inquiry Accelerates With Arrests In London

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); CONSPIRACY (90%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SCANDALS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (89%); GUILTY PLEAS (78%); FELONIES (78%); LITIGATION (78%); WIRE FRAUD (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); PRICE FIXING (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (74%); LAWYERS (74%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (74%); BAIL (72%); INTERBANK LENDING (71%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (64%) Citigroup Inc; Frauds and Swindling; Hayes, Thomas Alexander William; Libor (London Interbank Offered Rate); London (England); UBS AG; Citigroup Inc|C|NYSE; UBS AG|UBS|NYSE; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); UBS AG (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (71%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (57%); COOPERATIEVE CENTRALE RAIFFEISEN-BOERENLEENBANK BA (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Citigroup Inc; UBS AG

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); UBSN (SWX) (92%); UBS (NYSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); RBS (NYSE) (71%); RBS (LSE) (71%); RBS (AMS) (71%); DEUT (JSE) (57%); DBK (FRA) (57%); DBK (BIT) (57%); DBETN (JSE) (57%); DBA (ASX) (57%); DB (NYSE) (57%) Citigroup Inc; C; NYSE; Citigroup Inc; C; NYSE; UBS AG; UBS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%)

PERSON: Hayes, Thomas Alexander William

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (93%) UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); ENGLAND (90%); JAPAN (79%) London (England)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2013



663 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1946 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street Jitters

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Comments by the Fed appear to disappoint investors, who had hoped it would do more for longer. | Sony&#8217;s chief reiterates that the music and movie businesses are not for sale. | A once-closeted Republican operative is now campaigning for gay marriage. | Richard S. Fuld Jr. has sued his son-in-law over an apartment loan. 

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve expects to start pulling back later this year from its economic stimulus efforts, the Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, said on Wednesday. Increasingly confident in the durability of economic growth, the central bank plans to gradually scale down its monthly purchases of Treasury securities and mortgage-backed bonds beginning later this year and ending when the unemployment rate reaches 7 percent, which may happen by the middle of next year, Mr. Bernanke said, Binyamin Appelbaum reports in The New York Times. After that, the central bank would take several more years to unwind the rest of its stimulus campaign.
Mr. Bernanke emphasized that the timing of the retreat depended on the health of the economy. Pulling back "would basically say that we've had a relatively decent economic outcome in terms of sustained improvement in growth and unemployment," Mr. Bernanke said. "If things are worse, we will do more. If things are better, we will do less."
The comments appeared to disappoint investors, who had hoped the Fed would do more for longer, Mr. Appelbaum writes. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 1.39 percent and interest rates rose, as investors sold both stocks and bonds. 
"The steep market declines on Wednesday underscored the fears circulating through trading desks," Nathaniel Popper writes in The New York Times. "One concern is that the economy is not strong enough to do without the Fed's support. Another is that the Fed's decision to ease off the gas could, in itself, cause enough turmoil in the markets that economic growth could be threatened."
SONY REBUFFS NEW CALL TO SELL ENTERTAINMENT UNIT | After a renewed push by the hedge fund manager Daniel S. Loeb to break up Sony, the company's chief executive reiterated that the music and movie businesses were not for sale, though the board would continue to study the matter, Hiroko Tabuchi reports in DealBook. Speaking at Sony's annual meeting in Tokyo on Thursday, the chief executive, Kazuo Hirai, said that movies and music were an indispensable part of the company's growth strategy.
"The entertainment business plays an important role in Sony's future growth," Mr. Hirai told investors, saying it added critical value to the company and should not be let go. "This proposal strikes at the heart of what kind of company Sony ultimately will become in the future. We intend to take our time in discussing it."
A K.K.R. EXECUTIVE CAMPAIGNS FOR GAY MARRIAGE | Ken Mehlman, a once-closeted Republican operative who orchestrated President George W. Bush's 2004 re-election on a platform that included opposition to same-sex marriage, is now trying to convince fellow Republicans that gay marriage is consistent with conservative values, Sheryl Gay Stolberg writes in The New York Times. "He remains controversial, both applauded and vilified. On the left, he is either an unlikely hero or a hypocritical coward. On the right, some Republicans embrace him; others deem him a traitor," Ms. Stolberg writes.
Coming out "has been a little bit like the Tom Sawyer funeral, where you show up at your own funeral and you hear what people really think," Mr. Mehlman said in an interview in his office at Kohlberg Kravis Roberts, on the 42nd floor of a Midtown skyscraper. "A big part of one's brain that used to worry about this issue has now been freed to worry about things that are much more productive."
ON THE AGENDA | Markets in Asia slumped and European markets were sharply lower, after the Fed's announcement and the release of data showed China's economic growth was slowing. Oracle reports earnings after the market closes. Data on sales of existing homes is out at 10 a.m. John Stumpf, Wells Fargo's chief executive, is on CNBC at 7 a.m. Leon G. Cooperman of Omega Advisors is on Bloomberg TV at 9 a.m.
BLACK IDENTIFIED AS BUYER OF DRAWING | Leon D. Black of Apollo Global Management was the buyer of a $47.9 million Raphael drawing in an auction at Sotheby's in London in December, according to The Wall Street Journal. But British authorities are "blocking Mr. Black's attempts to export the drawing in an effort to keep it in the United Kingdom," the newspaper says.
FOR FULD, A FIGHT OVER AN APARTMENT LOAN | Richard S. Fuld Jr., former chief executive of Lehman Brothers, has sued his estranged son-in-law over a loan for the purchase and renovation of a Manhattan apartment, Bloomberg News reports. Mr. Fuld's son-in-law, Aaron Packles, is accused of "inducing plaintiff to advance significant sums" for the apartment on the Upper East Side of Manhattan by "falsely representing that defendant intended to repay that loan, failing to disclose his true intention to aver falsely that the apartment and renovations were a gift, and his failure to repay those funds to date," the lawsuit says, according to Bloomberg News.
Mr. Packles and the daughter of Mr. Fuld, Christine, paid $9.75 million in cash for the apartment in 2007, before putting it on the market in January 2009 for $12.95 million, The New York Times reported at the time. They lowered the asking price six weeks later to $9.8 million.
 | Contact: @williamalden | E-mail
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions
G.A.O. Warns Airline Merger Would Reduce Competition | The New York Times reports: "The planned merger between American Airlines and US Airways will reduce competition in a far larger number of airports than earlier airline mergers, including the one that created the nation's current leader, United-Continental, according to a report released Wednesday by the Government Accountability Office." NEW YORK TIMES
Ebix and Goldman Affiliate Abandon Deal | Reuters reports: "Ebix Inc. said that it and an affiliate of Goldman Sachs decided to cancel their planned merger after U.S regulators started an investigation into allegations of misconduct at Ebix, an insurance software provider." REUTERS
Microsoft Said to Have Pursued a Deal for Nokia | Microsoft recently was in "advanced talks" with Nokia over buying its handset business, but "discussions faltered over price and worries about Nokia's slumping market position, among other issues," The Wall Street Journal reports, citing unidentified people familiar with the matter. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Larger Rival to Acquire 3-D Printing Start-Up MakerBot | MakerBot, the Brooklyn-based start-up that makes 3-D printers, has agreed to sell itself to its larger rival Stratasys, the companies announced on Wednesday. DealBook »
Ryanair to Return Money to Shareholders | The Irish airline said it would return up to 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) to shareholders over the next two years. WALL STREET JOURNAL
INVESTMENT BANKING
Britain Prepares to Sell Its Stake in Lloyds and Weighs a Breakup of R.B.S. | The British government is preparing to sell part of its holding in the Lloyds Banking Group and is weighing a breakup of the Royal Bank of Scotland, the chancellor of the Exchequer said. DealBook »
In London, Banker Bonuses Rise 64% | 
TELEGRAPH
Goldman Loses Out on Smithfield Deal | Goldman Sachs was supposed to be an adviser to Smithfield Foods on its $4.7 billion sale to Shuanghui International Holdings of China, but the investment bank was rebuffed when Smithfield "learned that Goldman owns a stake in Shuanghui," The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Krawcheck Guides Women's Network Into Investments | The women's network 85 Broads has named a new president, Allyson McDonald, an announcement that seems to suggest the group may develop a way to invest capital in enterprises owned or led by women. DealBook »
Bank of America Names New Co-Heads of Technology and Media Banking | Bank of America Merrill Lynch named new co-heads of its technology, media and telecommunications investment banking group on Wednesday. It lured one executive from JPMorgan Chase. DealBook »
Chinese Banks Warn Over Lending | A cash squeeze in China has led bank executives to warn of higher interest rates and tighter lending practices, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
PRIVATE EQUITY
In Wake of Pay-to-Play Scandal, Riverstone Raises Its Largest Fund | Riverstone Holdings, a private equity firm focused on energy, announced that it had raised $7.7 billion for its largest-ever fund. DealBook »
Clark, a Retired General, Joins Blackstone as an Adviser | Wesley K. Clark, a retired Army general and onetime supreme allied commander in Europe for NATO, has joined the Blackstone Group as a deal adviser in the energy sector. DealBook »
Lone Star Aims to Raise $6 Billion for Property Fund | 
BLOOMBERG NEWS
HEDGE FUNDS
Brevan Howard Hit by Losses in Emerging Markets | Reuters reports: "Brevan Howard's emerging market hedge fund, one of the world's largest, is nursing big losses after the recent sell-off in developing market stocks, bonds and currencies, two sources who have seen the numbers said." REUTERS
European Hedge Funds Find Challenges in U.S. Market | 
REUTERS
I.P.O./OFFERINGS
News Corp. Publishing Spinoff Is Valued at $9.1 Billion | The valuation of the publishing spinoff of News Corporation, which began trading on Wednesday, was one-seventh the size of the entertainment arm, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
VENTURE CAPITAL
Silicon Valley and Spy Agency Increasingly Linked | When Facebook's chief security officer, Max Kelly, left in 2010, he went to work for the National Security Agency, underscoring "the increasingly deep connections between Silicon Valley and the agency and the degree to which they are now in the same business," The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
To Self-Finance or to Raise Money? | Two entrepreneurs with similar ideas took different approaches to financing, with one taking venture capital money and the other relying largely on money from its founders and customers. "The two approaches have created very different companies," The New York Times writes. NEW YORK TIMES
LEGAL/REGULATORY 
British Banks to Raise an Extra $21 Billion in Capital | British authorities want five of the country's largest banks, including Barclays and Royal Bank of Scotland, to raise a combined $20.7 billion in extra capital by the end of the year to protect against future financial shocks. DealBook »
Mortgage Lenders Found to Fall Short of Settlement's Terms | While the nation's five biggest mortgage lenders have largely satisfied their financial obligations under last year's $25 billion settlement, "four of the five have yet to meet their commitment to end the maze of frustrations that borrowers must navigate to modify their loans, according to a report on Wednesday by the settlement's independent monitor," The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
Deal on Bank Secrecy Loses Steam in Swiss Parliament | The New York Times reports: "Switzerland's Parliament on Wednesday scuttled an information-sharing agreement with the United States that the Swiss government had hailed just weeks ago as a breakthrough in a dispute over banking secrecy, but left open the possibility for another solution." NEW YORK TIMES
Dolce and Gabbana Fined in Tax Case | Reuters reports: "The fashion designers Domenico Dolce and Stefano Gabbana were handed a 20-month suspended prison sentence and a heavy fine on Wednesday for hiding hundreds of millions of euros from the Italian tax authorities." REUTERS
Google's Shareholder Bulwark for the Future | The legal settlement over Class C shares is a messy solution for a problem that need not exist in the first place, Richard Beales of Reuters Breakingviews writes. REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); BONDS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (88%); MARRIAGE (86%); EXECUTIVES (86%); GAYS & LESBIANS (83%); ELECTIONS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); COMPANY STRATEGY (77%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); SUITS & CLAIMS (74%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (72%); LITIGATION (69%); CONSERVATISM (68%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (68%); TALKS & MEETINGS (67%); MUSIC (67%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) Morning Agenda

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (90%); KAZUO HIRAI (79%); RICHARD S FULD (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (52%) UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (52%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2013



664 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1946 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street Jitters

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Comments by the Fed appear to disappoint investors, who had hoped it would do more for longer. | Sony&#8217;s chief reiterates that the music and movie businesses are not for sale. | A once-closeted Republican operative is now campaigning for gay marriage. | Richard S. Fuld Jr. has sued his son-in-law over an apartment loan. 

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve expects to start pulling back later this year from its economic stimulus efforts, the Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, said on Wednesday. Increasingly confident in the durability of economic growth, the central bank plans to gradually scale down its monthly purchases of Treasury securities and mortgage-backed bonds beginning later this year and ending when the unemployment rate reaches 7 percent, which may happen by the middle of next year, Mr. Bernanke said, Binyamin Appelbaum reports in The New York Times. After that, the central bank would take several more years to unwind the rest of its stimulus campaign.
Mr. Bernanke emphasized that the timing of the retreat depended on the health of the economy. Pulling back "would basically say that we've had a relatively decent economic outcome in terms of sustained improvement in growth and unemployment," Mr. Bernanke said. "If things are worse, we will do more. If things are better, we will do less."
The comments appeared to disappoint investors, who had hoped the Fed would do more for longer, Mr. Appelbaum writes. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 1.39 percent and interest rates rose, as investors sold both stocks and bonds. 
"The steep market declines on Wednesday underscored the fears circulating through trading desks," Nathaniel Popper writes in The New York Times. "One concern is that the economy is not strong enough to do without the Fed's support. Another is that the Fed's decision to ease off the gas could, in itself, cause enough turmoil in the markets that economic growth could be threatened."
SONY REBUFFS NEW CALL TO SELL ENTERTAINMENT UNIT | After a renewed push by the hedge fund manager Daniel S. Loeb to break up Sony, the company's chief executive reiterated that the music and movie businesses were not for sale, though the board would continue to study the matter, Hiroko Tabuchi reports in DealBook. Speaking at Sony's annual meeting in Tokyo on Thursday, the chief executive, Kazuo Hirai, said that movies and music were an indispensable part of the company's growth strategy.
"The entertainment business plays an important role in Sony's future growth," Mr. Hirai told investors, saying it added critical value to the company and should not be let go. "This proposal strikes at the heart of what kind of company Sony ultimately will become in the future. We intend to take our time in discussing it."
A K.K.R. EXECUTIVE CAMPAIGNS FOR GAY MARRIAGE | Ken Mehlman, a once-closeted Republican operative who orchestrated President George W. Bush's 2004 re-election on a platform that included opposition to same-sex marriage, is now trying to convince fellow Republicans that gay marriage is consistent with conservative values, Sheryl Gay Stolberg writes in The New York Times. "He remains controversial, both applauded and vilified. On the left, he is either an unlikely hero or a hypocritical coward. On the right, some Republicans embrace him; others deem him a traitor," Ms. Stolberg writes.
Coming out "has been a little bit like the Tom Sawyer funeral, where you show up at your own funeral and you hear what people really think," Mr. Mehlman said in an interview in his office at Kohlberg Kravis Roberts, on the 42nd floor of a Midtown skyscraper. "A big part of one's brain that used to worry about this issue has now been freed to worry about things that are much more productive."
ON THE AGENDA | Markets in Asia slumped and European markets were sharply lower, after the Fed's announcement and the release of data showed China's economic growth was slowing. Oracle reports earnings after the market closes. Data on sales of existing homes is out at 10 a.m. John Stumpf, Wells Fargo's chief executive, is on CNBC at 7 a.m. Leon G. Cooperman of Omega Advisors is on Bloomberg TV at 9 a.m.
BLACK IDENTIFIED AS BUYER OF DRAWING | Leon D. Black of Apollo Global Management was the buyer of a $47.9 million Raphael drawing in an auction at Sotheby's in London in December, according to The Wall Street Journal. But British authorities are "blocking Mr. Black's attempts to export the drawing in an effort to keep it in the United Kingdom," the newspaper says.
FOR FULD, A FIGHT OVER AN APARTMENT LOAN | Richard S. Fuld Jr., former chief executive of Lehman Brothers, has sued his estranged son-in-law over a loan for the purchase and renovation of a Manhattan apartment, Bloomberg News reports. Mr. Fuld's son-in-law, Aaron Packles, is accused of "inducing plaintiff to advance significant sums" for the apartment on the Upper East Side of Manhattan by "falsely representing that defendant intended to repay that loan, failing to disclose his true intention to aver falsely that the apartment and renovations were a gift, and his failure to repay those funds to date," the lawsuit says, according to Bloomberg News.
Mr. Packles and the daughter of Mr. Fuld, Christine, paid $9.75 million in cash for the apartment in 2007, before putting it on the market in January 2009 for $12.95 million, The New York Times reported at the time. They lowered the asking price six weeks later to $9.8 million.
 | Contact: @williamalden | E-mail
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions
G.A.O. Warns Airline Merger Would Reduce Competition | The New York Times reports: "The planned merger between American Airlines and US Airways will reduce competition in a far larger number of airports than earlier airline mergers, including the one that created the nation's current leader, United-Continental, according to a report released Wednesday by the Government Accountability Office." NEW YORK TIMES
Ebix and Goldman Affiliate Abandon Deal | Reuters reports: "Ebix Inc. said that it and an affiliate of Goldman Sachs decided to cancel their planned merger after U.S regulators started an investigation into allegations of misconduct at Ebix, an insurance software provider." REUTERS
Microsoft Said to Have Pursued a Deal for Nokia | Microsoft recently was in "advanced talks" with Nokia over buying its handset business, but "discussions faltered over price and worries about Nokia's slumping market position, among other issues," The Wall Street Journal reports, citing unidentified people familiar with the matter. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Larger Rival to Acquire 3-D Printing Start-Up MakerBot | MakerBot, the Brooklyn-based start-up that makes 3-D printers, has agreed to sell itself to its larger rival Stratasys, the companies announced on Wednesday. DealBook »
Ryanair to Return Money to Shareholders | The Irish airline said it would return up to 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) to shareholders over the next two years. WALL STREET JOURNAL
INVESTMENT BANKING
Britain Prepares to Sell Its Stake in Lloyds and Weighs a Breakup of R.B.S. | The British government is preparing to sell part of its holding in the Lloyds Banking Group and is weighing a breakup of the Royal Bank of Scotland, the chancellor of the Exchequer said. DealBook »
In London, Banker Bonuses Rise 64% | 
TELEGRAPH
Goldman Loses Out on Smithfield Deal | Goldman Sachs was supposed to be an adviser to Smithfield Foods on its $4.7 billion sale to Shuanghui International Holdings of China, but the investment bank was rebuffed when Smithfield "learned that Goldman owns a stake in Shuanghui," The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Krawcheck Guides Women's Network Into Investments | The women's network 85 Broads has named a new president, Allyson McDonald, an announcement that seems to suggest the group may develop a way to invest capital in enterprises owned or led by women. DealBook »
Bank of America Names New Co-Heads of Technology and Media Banking | Bank of America Merrill Lynch named new co-heads of its technology, media and telecommunications investment banking group on Wednesday. It lured one executive from JPMorgan Chase. DealBook »
Chinese Banks Warn Over Lending | A cash squeeze in China has led bank executives to warn of higher interest rates and tighter lending practices, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
PRIVATE EQUITY 
In Wake of Pay-to-Play Scandal, Riverstone Raises Its Largest Fund | Riverstone Holdings, a private equity firm focused on energy, announced that it had raised $7.7 billion for its largest-ever fund. DealBook »
Clark, a Retired General, Joins Blackstone as an Adviser | Wesley K. Clark, a retired Army general and onetime supreme allied commander in Europe for NATO, has joined the Blackstone Group as a deal adviser in the energy sector. DealBook »
Lone Star Aims to Raise $6 Billion for Property Fund | 
BLOOMBERG NEWS
HEDGE FUNDS
Brevan Howard Hit by Losses in Emerging Markets | Reuters reports: "Brevan Howard's emerging market hedge fund, one of the world's largest, is nursing big losses after the recent sell-off in developing market stocks, bonds and currencies, two sources who have seen the numbers said." REUTERS
European Hedge Funds Find Challenges in U.S. Market | 
REUTERS
I.P.O./OFFERINGS 
News Corp. Publishing Spinoff Is Valued at $9.1 Billion | The valuation of the publishing spinoff of News Corporation, which began trading on Wednesday, was one-seventh the size of the entertainment arm, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
VENTURE CAPITAL 
Silicon Valley and Spy Agency Increasingly Linked | When Facebook's chief security officer, Max Kelly, left in 2010, he went to work for the National Security Agency, underscoring "the increasingly deep connections between Silicon Valley and the agency and the degree to which they are now in the same business," The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
To Self-Finance or to Raise Money? | Two entrepreneurs with similar ideas took different approaches to financing, with one taking venture capital money and the other relying largely on money from its founders and customers. "The two approaches have created very different companies," The New York Times writes. NEW YORK TIMES
LEGAL/REGULATORY 
British Banks to Raise an Extra $21 Billion in Capital | British authorities want five of the country's largest banks, including Barclays and Royal Bank of Scotland, to raise a combined $20.7 billion in extra capital by the end of the year to protect against future financial shocks. DealBook »
Mortgage Lenders Found to Fall Short of Settlement's Terms | While the nation's five biggest mortgage lenders have largely satisfied their financial obligations under last year's $25 billion settlement, "four of the five have yet to meet their commitment to end the maze of frustrations that borrowers must navigate to modify their loans, according to a report on Wednesday by the settlement's independent monitor," The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
Deal on Bank Secrecy Loses Steam in Swiss Parliament | The New York Times reports: "Switzerland's Parliament on Wednesday scuttled an information-sharing agreement with the United States that the Swiss government had hailed just weeks ago as a breakthrough in a dispute over banking secrecy, but left open the possibility for another solution." NEW YORK TIMES
Dolce and Gabbana Fined in Tax Case | Reuters reports: "The fashion designers Domenico Dolce and Stefano Gabbana were handed a 20-month suspended prison sentence and a heavy fine on Wednesday for hiding hundreds of millions of euros from the Italian tax authorities." REUTERS
Google's Shareholder Bulwark for the Future | The legal settlement over Class C shares is a messy solution for a problem that need not exist in the first place, Richard Beales of Reuters Breakingviews writes. REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); BONDS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (88%); MARRIAGE (86%); EXECUTIVES (86%); GAYS & LESBIANS (83%); ELECTIONS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); COMPANY STRATEGY (77%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); SUITS & CLAIMS (74%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (72%); LITIGATION (69%); CONSERVATISM (68%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (68%); TALKS & MEETINGS (67%); MUSIC (67%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) Morning Agenda

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (90%); KAZUO HIRAI (79%); RICHARD S FULD (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (52%) UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (52%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2013



665 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2013

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 911 words

HEADLINE: More Than Just 'Endangered,' a J.F.K. Terminal Is to Be Demolished

BYLINE: DAVID W. DUNLAP


HIGHLIGHT: The flying saucer-like Pan Am Worldport was named this week to the National Trust for Historic Preservation&#8217;s roster of America&#8217;s 11 Most Endangered Places, but work has already begun on its destruction. 

 BODY:
Now departing from Kennedy International Airport: the Pan Am flying saucer.
With its elliptical four-acre parasol roof - cantilevered so far out that it almost seemed to be floating over the tarmac - Terminal 3 has long been a distinctive remnant of early jet travel and an emblem of Pan American World Airways, once considered the most glamorous American carrier (when "glamour" and "airline" could occupy the same sentence without irony). Pan Am called it the Worldport. Almost everyone else thought of it as a flying saucer.
By extending the roof 114 feet out from the terminal, through a cable system that made the top of the building look like an ensemble of small suspension bridges, Pan Am's architects sought to protect passengers from the rain and snow. "It will eliminate the huddled dash through bad weather by extending the roof like a huge oblong umbrella over the aircraft parking space," Richard Witkin wrote in The New York Times in 1957 as he described the plan. 
Pan Am went under in 1991. Delta Air Lines then began using the Worldport. Last month, Delta decamped to greatly expanded space in Terminal 4 and closed Terminal 3 for good, after 53 years of service.
Seeing the handwriting on the wall, the National Trust for Historic Preservation placed the terminal on its annual roster of America's 11 Most Endangered Places, released Wednesday, saying that the building "symbolizes America's entry into the Jet Age."
While the trust has no regulatory or legal power to impede demolition, its national imprimatur is often used by local preservationists to bolster their attempts at persuasion.
In the case of Terminal 3, however, "endangered" may be an understatement. "Doomed" is more like it.
Despite the existence of an impassioned grass-roots Save the Worldport campaign and an online petition that has attracted more than 3,000 supporters, there seems to be no cosmic scale on which the structure's fate rests, capable of tipping one way or another.
Delta has every intention of demolishing Terminal 3. Workers are already removing asbestos and lead paint to prepare it for wrecking crews.
By 2015, the airline plans to have turned the site into a parking zone for aircraft that cannot be accommodated or are not needed at the gates of Terminals 2 and 4, both of which are used by Delta. As it is, idle aircraft must be towed across the airport, said Leslie P. Scott, a spokeswoman for Delta. "This aircraft parking will drive a lot of operational efficiencies for us," she said. "Planes will get to the gates quicker."
The National Trust's suggestion to incorporate the terminal into a connecting passageway between Terminals 2 and 4 has been rendered moot by Delta's abandonment of the connector plan, Ms. Scott said.
The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which owns and runs Kennedy, could conceivably interfere with Delta's plans. But it is a very willing partner in the redevelopment.
"The old Pan Am Worldport terminal at J.F.K. served this region for more than a half century, but is obsolete for 21st-century aviation purposes," said Ron Marsico, a spokesman for the authority. "Unfortunately, J.F.K. is a land-constrained airport, and the space where Worldport is located cannot be set aside for preservation because it is needed for other aviation uses that will lead to job creation and economic growth."
In fact, the authority was persuaded more than a decade ago - sometimes kicking, if not screaming - to preserve and restore Eero Saarinen's T.W.A. Flight Center, which is a landmark in every sense, including officially. Today, its low-slung, bird-winged profile is easily the most memorable work of architecture in the airport complex. However, it has not returned to full-time use. Mr. Marsico said the authority was negotiating with a hotelier.
The former National Airlines Sundrome, by I. M. Pei & Partners, was torn down in 2011. Protests were lodged, but no serious preservation effort was made. The building may have been too austere to engender the kind of affectionate embrace that Kalev Savi, Anthony Stramaglia and Lisa Turano Wojcik have thrown around Worldport in their Quixotic campaign to save it.
Mr. Savi's mother worked for Pan Am, as he did part-time when he was in college. Mr. Stramaglia flew Pan Am frequently as a youth. And Ms. Wojcik's father, Emanuel N. Turano of Ives, Turano & Gardner, was one of the architects of the Worldport, along with Walter Prokosch of Tippetts-Abbett-McCarthy-Stratton.
They professed encouragement on Wednesday.
"A year or so ago, Anthony and I felt like we were the only two people in the world who seemed to care that the flying saucer building was going to be demolished," Mr. Savi wrote in an e-mail. "This announcement of having made the most endangered 11 sites in America list for 2013 is validation by the U.S.A.'s leading historical preservation society that the claims we have been making are true."
Mr. Stramaglia said he hoped to inspire interest in a building that was designed to be a showcase. "Public apathy toward mundane things like air terminals these days, especially in today's world," he wrote, "make a trip to the airport more like a trip to the dentist."

        
La Guardia Loses Swiss Cheese Ice Cream Cone, and Some History
        
A Modern Masterpiece, No Longer Used, Will Soon Disappear at Kennedy Airport
        
Built as an Operating Theater, Soon to Be a Private School
        
Damaged by Hurricane Sandy, Verizon's Jazz-Age Frescoes Glow Again
        
Pilot Says Drone Flew Past Jet Nearing J.F.K.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (93%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (93%); AIRLINES (92%); HISTORIC SITES (90%); HISTORY (90%); AIRPORT OPERATION (89%); PORT AUTHORITIES (89%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (74%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (72%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (69%); ASBESTOS REMEDIATION (50%); LEAD PAINT (50%) Airports; Architecture; Delta Air Lines, Inc; Historic Buildings and Sites; Kennedy International Airport (NYC); National Trust for Historic Preservation; Port Authority of New York and New Jersey; Building Blocks; Buildings and Landmarks; Land Use and Planning; Queens; Transportation

COMPANY: PAN AM CLIPPER CONNECTION (92%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (84%); PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (60%)

ORGANIZATION: Delta Air Lines, Inc; Kennedy International Airport (NYC); National Trust for Historic Preservation; Port Authority of New York and New Jersey

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (60%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2013



666 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Taking Note)

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 602 words

HEADLINE: Nogales Is Not Falluja

BYLINE: LAWRENCE DOWNES


HIGHLIGHT: Republicans are demanding billions more for the same immigration enforcement strategy that they denounce as a failure. 

 BODY:
The Times is reportingthat a deal has been struck to keep comprehensive immigration reform moving forward in the Senate, by addressing Republican objections that the bill is too weak on border enforcement.
The plan, hatched by two Republican senators, Bob Corker of Tennessee and John Hoeven of North Dakota, would, among other things, nearly double the Border Patrol, to 40,000 agents from 21,000, and complete 700 miles of border fencing, all at a cost of about $30 billion.
It's being called the "border surge." This obviously calls to mind similar surges in harsh desert regions where the United States is deploying troops and drones.

Except this surge is not designed to protect the homeland from bands of well-organized extremists armed with rocket-propelled grenades, roadside bombs and a suicidal urge to kill as many Americans as possible. 
No, it's meant to repel an army of nannies, fruit-and-vegetable harvesters, hotel maids, landscapers, mothers with children and other parched, star-crossed economic migrants whose life-or-death mission is to earn a living wage, to support their families, to fill the many yawning gaps in the country's labor force, and to become American citizens, like the millions of hopeful foreigners who came before them.
It's an army whose numbers have fallen precipitously anyway, surge or no surge. And whom the bill would provide with orderly, safe ways to cross the border - with papers and permission - that do not exist now.
The crazy thing is, this might all be good news, because more lunatic border enforcement has always been the condition demanded by Republicans for allowing the good parts of the bill - legalization of millions of undocumented immigrants - to proceed. If Republicans had simply wanted merely a practical, sensible, efficient overhaul of the nation's immigration laws, we could have had that years ago. But they haven't gotten over their border fixation yet. Maybe this finally will be enough to satisfy them, and will allow the Senate to get a bill done.
To get an understanding of the extent of the nation's southern-border derangement disorder, it helps to read a recent report from the Migration Policy Institute. It found that the United States spends more on its immigration-enforcement agencies than on all other federal law-enforcement agencies - combined. In the 26 years since the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 - the last reform as big as the one now being debated - the country has spent about $187 billion ($219 billion in 2012 dollars) on immigration enforcement.
These billions - for fences, sensors, agents, drones, prison cells and other military-industrial expenditures - the border is now tight as a drum, or as tight as any 2,000-mile, desert-river-mountain-and-canyon drum can reasonably be. And the country still has not fenced its way to a solution. What it got for all that money is the situation we are in today, where the supply of labor and visas is still mismatched, and where 11 million people are living outside the law.
In return for the reforms that will finally fix the problem - by fixing the visa supply, legalizing the undocumented and repairing the future immigration flow - Republicans are demanding billions more for the same enforcement strategy that they denounce as a failure. They are trying to double down on what they insist doesn't work, expecting a different outcome. Which is the classic definition of you-know-what.

        
Change We Can Believe In?
        
'A Pretty Shameful Day' in Washington
        
Tax Avoider in Chief?
        
Boehner's Latest Blow to Immigration
        
New York's Clueless Election Board Drags Out Ancient Machines

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (92%); IMMIGRATION (92%); BORDER CONTROL (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); BOMBINGS (74%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (74%); CHILDREN (74%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (73%); FAMILY (72%); LABOR FORCE (71%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (71%); DESERTS (70%); ARMED FORCES (69%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (68%); LIVING WAGE (66%); WAGES & SALARIES (66%); HOTEL HOUSEKEEPING (53%); HOTEL STAFF (53%) Corker, Robert Phillips Jr; Hoeven, John; Migration Policy Institute; Republican Party; Senate; United States; Featured Posts

ORGANIZATION: Migration Policy Institute; Republican Party; Senate

PERSON: JOHN HOEVEN (88%); BOB CORKER (88%) Corker, Robert Phillips Jr; Hoeven, John

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%) United States

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2013



667 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2013

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 134 words

HEADLINE: Why Bernanke's Remarks Set off Global, Contagious Market Fears

BYLINE: MARCUS MABRY


HIGHLIGHT: NEW YORK &#8212; As global markets tumbled and the Dow Jones Industrial Average headed for what could be its biggest percentage decline of the year, Rendezvous editor, Marcus Mabry, sat down with Nelson Schwartz and Nathaniel Popper, New York Times business reporters, to find out why. 

 BODY:
NEW YORK - It was a one-two punch. On Wednesday, Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, testified that the Fed could foresee the day it would stop buying up U.S. bonds to goose the economy. The next day saw reports that Chinese banks had become reluctant to lend to one another, causing interest rates in the interbank market to spike to punishingly high levels. 
As global markets tumbled and the Dow Jones Industrial Average headed for what could be its biggest percentage decline of the year, Rendezvous editor, Marcus Mabry, sat down with Nelson Schwartz and Nathaniel Popper, New York Times business reporters, to find out why.

        
Americans Learn of Chechnya
        
The United States and Guns
        
Interpreting North Korea
        
Hillary and the 2016 Presidential Election. Yes, 2016.
        
Venezuela After the Death of Chavez

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BONDS (90%); ELECTIONS (72%); INTEREST RATES (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); INTERBANK LENDING (55%) Bernanke, Ben S; Mabry, Marcus; Dow Jones Stock Average; Business

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (91%) Bernanke, Ben S; Mabry, Marcus

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (76%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2013



668 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 411 words

HEADLINE: Tightening the Border

BYLINE: JARED BERNSTEIN


HIGHLIGHT: An economist says that even those seeking a progressive approach to an immigration overhaul have reason to support stronger border security. 

 BODY:
Jared Bernstein is a senior fellow at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities in Washington and a former chief economist to Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. 
The path to immigration reform, if not to citizenship, may have just become a bit less steep as Senate Republicans "reached an agreement on Thursday on a plan to strengthen border security ... raising hopes that the new deal could build Republican support for the immigration legislation being debated on the Senate floor." 
You might expect someone like me - as a progressive who has long supported comprehensive immigration reform and a welcoming policy stance to those who want to try to make it in America - to recoil at this development. But I think the general idea makes sense.
To be more precise, we kid ourselves if we think we can fix our broken immigration system without controlling legal immigrant flows. Unfortunately, the returns to spending $30 billion more on militarizing the border may be smaller than border-control advocates think. We're already spending $18 billion per year and illegal flows are way down (though part of that is because of the diminished magnet of the weaker United States economy). Resources would be much better spent strengthening employer verification systems.
But the larger point is that conservatives are right when they emphasize border control as a key part of comprehensive reform, though they predictably go way too far when they argue that the more welcoming parts of the legislation shouldn't kick in until the border is 90 to 100 percent secure. That's just "poison pill" verbiage.
The 1986 reform effort demonstrably failed in this regard or we wouldn't be where we are today. And smart parts of the Senate legislation have built in flow controls for low-wage workers, though less so for higher-wage workers. For example, the bill proposes the creation of the Immigration and Labor Market Research Bureau, charged with evaluating local shortages of lower-skilled workers and adjusting the caps accordingly. Obviously, that idea assumes control of the spigot (Britain effectively takes this approach).
So, before supporters of progressive reform become too outraged about stepped-up border control, I urge them to consider the logic. Absent control of flows, we're just pretending to fix the problem.

        
How Immigration Reform Would Help the Economy
        
The Challenge of Securing the Border
        
Mortgaged Diplomas
        
Getting to Tax Reform
        
Who Pays the Corporate Income Tax

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION LAW (93%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (93%); IMMIGRATION (93%); BORDER CONTROL (92%); LEGISLATION (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (87%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); TAKEOVERS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); TAX REFORM (74%); CONSERVATISM (72%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); TAX LAW (63%); INCOME TAX (50%); CORPORATE TAX (50%) Immigration and Emigration; Law and Legislation; Today's Economist

PERSON: JARED BERNSTEIN (74%); JOE BIDEN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2013



669 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 896 words

HEADLINE: The New Economic Risk: Complacency

BYLINE: STEVEN RATTNER


HIGHLIGHT: Lawmakers have let the slightly better news on the economy lull them into inaction. 

 BODY:
With each month of steady employment growth - in May, 175,000 jobs were created - the feeling of lassitude around the issues facing the American economy takes hold a little bit more.
Amid the gathering drumbeat of pronouncements of economic optimism, most dramatically from the Federal Reserve Board on Wednesday, the feeling of dread that used to bubble up in the moments before each month's jobs report has largely dissipated.
That's good news, certainly. But still, the thing that has replaced our collective dread may be even more dangerous in the long run - and that's complacency. The slowness of our economic recovery should remain our biggest national worry, particularly as that sluggishness is manifested in inadequate job totals and stagnant incomes.

For example, the Hamilton Project, a research group based at the Brookings Institution, has calculated that on the current trajectory, it would take until October 2022 for the unemployment rate to return to its level at the end of 2007, just before the recession began, when it stood at 5 percent. 
That would mean nine more years in which too many Americans without steady incomes struggled to make ends meet.
Even if the rate of job growth accelerated to 200,000 per month, it would still take until late 2020 to get the nation back to full employment.
Equally concerning is the stagnation of wages. Over the past four years, the average incomes of Americans (after adjusting for inflation) have remained mired at 2008 levels. With income inequality incontrovertibly rising, that means that most Americans have suffered cuts in their purchasing power.
But here's the really incredible part: despite these worrisome facts, Congress has been doing nothing, absolutely nothing, to address the problem.
Or of late, any of the nation's real problems. The 112th Congress, which ended on Jan. 3, passed 17 percent fewer bills than any previous Congress since 1948 (and possibly even before that), according to the Library of Congress. And this Congress is already off to a slower start than its predecessor.
Small-government conservatives may view this as good news; the less government does, the happier they say they would be. I have a different opinion. I believe we have plenty of challenges and that it's Congress's job to address them.
For his part, President Obama has been faithfully unfurling proposals, including major ones during the last presidential campaign and in his new budget, released in April. And since early spring, he has tried to mobilize public opinion by journeying to places like Austin, Tex., Baltimore and Mooresville, N.C., on his "Middle Class Jobs and Opportunity Tour."
But neither the tepid economic data nor the president's exhortations have moved Congress. After demanding that the Senate Democrats pass a budget for the first time in four years, a clutch of important Republican senators are now refusing to participate in the next procedural step, a conference committee between the houses of Congress to reconcile their competing budget proposals.
So instead of pounding out thoughtful policy, Congress hurtles toward the next fiscal crisis - a double showdown this fall over financing the government for the next fiscal year, which begins Oct. 1, and over raising the debt ceiling that limits the federal government's ability to borrow money to finance its budget deficit.
No one should be surprised, then, that the American people's confidence in Congress has now dropped to 10 percent, the lowest on record.
It's time for Congress to do something. That doesn't mean that I'm signing up with those who advocate a Japanese-style exercise of scattering huge sums of government money willy-nilly to try to stimulate the economy. That may provide a short burst of energy, but it would compound our debt problem - yes, we still have a big one - without offering long-term relief.
Happily, there's no shortage of smart policy programs that, for small amounts of money (at least some of which could come from trimming other parts of the budget), could address the structural problems that are holding back our jobs recovery.
For example, last week, the left-leaning Center for American Progress released an exhaustive compendium of ideas, some of them hugely idealistic (like overhauling the tax code), but others quite manageable in the short term. One such idea is to reprogram education spending to better target science and engineering - areas where the next generation of jobs is likely to emerge.
Similarly, President Obama's latest budget provides for long-term deficit reduction while carving out additional funding for critical needs like establishing an infrastructure bank.
And yet, Congress has let these and other good ideas wither on the vine.
Maybe the solution is to borrow one good idea from Republicans. At Republican leaders' insistence, an earlier budget deal included a requirement that lawmakers' salaries be held in suspension if the Senate and House did not each pass a budget. The threat seemed to work: both chambers passed one.
Now it's time to extend that concept to force Congress to do something to spur job growth and prepare the next generation of American workers - something, that is, other than the misguided sequester now in place.

        
Is This a Government Which I See Before Me?
        
Days of the Jackals
        
The Warnings Behind the Numbers
        
The Shadow Lobbyist
        
Stop Stealing From Our Kids

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%); NATIONAL LIBRARIES (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); CONSERVATISM (66%); US PRESIDENTS (64%); POLITICS (64%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (63%) Federal Budget (US); House of Representatives; Labor and Jobs; Republican Party; Senate; Unemployment; United States Economy; United States Politics and Government; Steven Rattner

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives; Republican Party; Senate

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%); STEVEN RATTNER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2013



670 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 854 words

HEADLINE: Senator Criticizes Lack of Supervision for Banks' Consultants

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS and JESSICA SILVER-GREENBERG


HIGHLIGHT: A warning that there was a risk to the economy in the lax oversight of firms that banks hire to help them comply with federal rules. 

 BODY:
When federal regulators told Congress in April that they lacked basic plans for the oversight of consulting firms that advise big banks, one lawmaker had blunt advice: start adopting guidelines "this afternoon."
With changes yet to materialize, the lawmaker, Senator Sherrod Brown, plans to ratchet up the pressure on Friday in a letter to the nation's top banking regulators.
In the letter - a draft of which was reviewed by The New York Times - Mr. Brown will urge the Federal Reserve and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency to keep a closer watch on the multibillion-dollar consulting industry, which has become something of a shadow regulatory force on Wall Street. 
"Without written guidelines and transparent processes, it is impossible to ensure the integrity of a system that relies upon consultants paid by banks to report on their regulatory compliance," Mr. Brown, an Ohio Democrat who is a senior member of the Senate Banking Committee, is expected to say in the letter. "This lax system undermines financial regulation at every level and puts our economy at risk."
The pressure from Capitol Hill comes as fresh details emerge about one of the consulting industry's most lucrative assignments. When several consulting firms were enlisted to pore over home foreclosures as part of a federal enforcement action, they collectively received about $2 billion for their work, even though the consultants reviewed only a fraction of the loans.
New documents suggest that the Promontory Financial Group, which examined loans for Wells Fargo, Bank of America and PNC, was the highest paid of the consultants. The firm, run by a former comptroller of the currency, Eugene Ludwig, received $927 million for reviewing more than 250,000 loan files, according to documents provided to the Senate Banking Committee and reviewed by The Times.
PricewaterhouseCoopers, which reviewed files for four banks, was paid about $425 million. Deloitte, which handled JPMorgan's foreclosure review, was paid $465 million.
The substantial payments have raised questions about the independence of the consulting firms, which Mr. Brown said were paid and handpicked by the same banks they were expected to help change.
After reviewing an early version of the letter, a spokeswoman for the Fed said, "We have received the letter and plan to respond." A spokesman for the comptroller's office said it was "actively at work on a set of standards," and would finish them "in the near future."
Some federal authorities who spoke on the condition of anonymity said that they were quietly rethinking their reliance on consultants. They also said that they could punish banks that failed to improve and could tell a bank to replace any consulting firm that had erred.
Yet Mr. Brown is calling on federal regulators to take a more public stance.
His letter comes on the heels of an effort in New York State to rein in the consulting industry. Mr. Brown praised New York for introducing a new "common sense" code of conduct for consultants while also raising questions about why federal authorities had yet to adopt similar standards.
"I urge the O.C.C. and the Federal Reserve to act immediately to create a similar set of written standards for independent consultants," Mr. Brown said in the draft of the letter.
As part of the overhaul in New York, the state's top financial regulator took action against Deloitte on Tuesday, imposing a $10 million fine and a one-year ban. The accusations by the state regulator, Benjamin M. Lawsky, stemmed from Deloitte's work for Standard Chartered, the British bank accused of illicitly transferring billions of dollars on behalf of Iran.
Under a 2004 agreement with state and federal regulators, Standard Chartered hired Deloitte to look for suspicious money transfers routed through its New York branches. But when Deloitte submitted a report to regulators, Mr. Lawsky said, it relented to pressure from the bank and watered down its recommendations for rooting out money laundering.
In a statement, Deloitte said that it had not been accused of intentionally aiding and abetting the bank.
"As a leading professional services firm, Deloitte has an important responsibility to continually elevate the standards that govern our work and that of our profession," the statement said.
Federal authorities have yet to impose a similar crackdown. Grappling with scarce resources, they rely on consultants to help remedy flaws at big banks. More recently, however, they have indicated a willingness to rethink their ties with consultants.
"While the use of independent consultants can be an effective supervisory tool, there are certainly lessons to be learned from our experience, and we believe we can improve the process going forward," Daniel P. Stipano, who supervises enforcement at the comptroller's office, said in testimony at the hearing in April.
But when Mr. Brown asked whether the agency had adopted written standards for the consulting firms, Mr. Stipano conceded that the agency had not yet "put pen to paper."

        
Blame Abounds Over a Flawed Foreclosure Review
        
Consultants to Banks Are Sharply Questioned on Independence

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); CONSULTING SERVICES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); FORECLOSURE (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%) Banking and Financial Institutions; Brown, Sherrod; Federal Reserve System; Office of the Comptroller of the Currency; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Senate Committee on Banking; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); DELOITTE LLP (58%); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (58%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Federal Reserve System; Office of the Comptroller of the Currency; Senate Committee on Banking

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); WFC (NYSE) (84%); JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (58%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%)

PERSON: SHERROD BROWN (90%) Brown, Sherrod

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2013



671 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; AMSTERDAM JOURNAL; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1139 words

HEADLINE: The Dutch Prize Their Pedal Power, but a Sea of Bikes Swamps Their Capital

BYLINE: By JOHN TAGLIABUE

 BODY:
AMSTERDAM -- About 6:30 weekday mornings, throngs of bicycles, with a smattering of motor scooters and pedestrians, pour off the ferries that carry bikers and other passengers free of charge across the IJ (pronounced ''eye'') harbor, clogging the streets and causing traffic jams down behind Amsterdam's main train station.
''In the afternoon it's even more,'' moaned Erwin Schoof, a metalworker in his 20s who lives in the canal-laced center of town and battles the chaos daily to cross to his job.
Willem van Heijningen, a railway official responsible for bikes around the station, said, ''It's not a war zone, but it's the next thing to it.'' 
This clogged stream of cyclists is just one of many in a city as renowned for bikes as Los Angeles is for automobiles or Venice for gondolas. Cyclists young and old pedal through narrow lanes and along canals. Mothers and fathers balance toddlers in spacious wooden boxes affixed to their bikes, ferrying them to school or day care. Carpenters carry tools and supplies in similar contraptions and electricians their cables. Few wear helmets. Increasingly, some are saying what was simply unthinkable just a few years ago: There are too many bikes.
While cities like New York struggle to get people onto bikes, Amsterdam is trying to keep its hordes of bikes under control. In a city of 800,000, there are 880,000 bicycles, the government estimates, four times the number of cars. In the past two decades, travel by bike has grown by 40 percent so that now about 32 percent of all trips within the city are by bike, compared with 22 percent by car.
Applauding this accomplishment, a Danish urban planning consultancy, Copenhagenize Design, which publishes an annual list of the 20 most bike-friendly cities, placed Amsterdam in first place this year, as it has frequently in the past. (The list consists mostly of European cities, though Tokyo; Nagoya, Japan; and Rio de Janeiro made the cut. Montreal is the only North American city included.)
But many Amsterdamers say it is not so much the traffic jams like those at the morning ferry that annoy them most, but the problem of where to park their bikes once they get to where they're going, in a city with almost more water than paved surfaces.
''Just look at this place!'' said Xem Smit, 22, who for the past year has struggled to maintain order at a municipal bike parking lot in the heart of town, waving a hand at bikes chained to lampposts, benches, trees and almost any other permanent object across a tree-lined square between the stock market and the big De Bijenkorf department store.
''I hear complaints all the time,'' Mr. Smit said. ''It's not bike friendly -- no!'' His tiny, fenced-in parking lot has space officially for 140 bikes, but he routinely crams in more. ''My record is 152,'' he said.
Mr. Smit's problem is largely what keeps Thomas Koorn, of Amsterdam's Transport and Traffic Department, awake at night. ''We have a real parking issue,'' he said in a conference room overlooking the IJ. Over the next two decades, Mr. Koorn said, the city will invest $135 million to improve the biking infrastructure, including the creation of 38,000 bike parking racks ''in the hot spots.''
''We don't think there's a crisis; we want to keep it attractive,'' Mr. Koorn said. He paused, then added, ''You cannot imagine if all this traffic were cars.''
Part of the problem is that many Amsterdamers are not satisfied with just one bike, and often do not care where they leave those they have. ''I have three,'' said Timo Klein, 23, an economics student, picking one of his out from a scattering of dozens of bikes on the central Dam Square, some still usable, others clearly wrecks. ''If one breaks down, I don't have to use public transportation,'' like buses or trams, which in the city's narrow, clogged roadways are slower than bikes.
With so many bikes around, one of the more powerful lobbies in town is the Fietsersbond, or Cyclists' Union, with its 4,000 local members. Musing over why Amsterdamers are so keen on bikes, Michèl Post, a union official, attributed it to the country's density.
''Our country is small,'' said Mr. Post, who rides seven miles every day to catch a train into the heart of Amsterdam. ''And the whole country is flat, and the climate is not extreme. We're really lucky.''
Yet even bike advocates like Mr. Post concede there are challenges. One is a recent proliferation of motor scooters, some of which are allowed to use bike paths, frequently causing accidents. While the noisy scooters account for only 3 percent of traffic, they are responsible for 16 percent of traffic accidents. ''The city cannot cope,'' he said. ''We need a change.''
But the greatest challenge is the wild parking of bikes, Mr. Post acknowledged. ''There are too many bikes,'' he said. ''At train stations, shopping malls, in residential areas, everywhere there are more bikes than bike racks.''
''When you look at the large squares, on a Friday night the place is completely covered with bikes,'' he went on. ''There is also a question of aesthetic values.''
The city's main train station, which will celebrate its 125th anniversary next year, is a focal point of the problem, and over the past decade Netherlands Railways has created more than 10,000 parking places for bikes. By 2020 the number is expected to be lifted to 17,000, in part because of the construction of a $27 million underground garage in front of the enormous red brick building. A decade ago, a three-story parking garage designed for 2,500 bikes was erected; it now often accommodates almost 3,500.
''It became a tourist attraction,'' said Mr. van Heijningen, the railway official, himself the owner of three bicycles, one of which he rides to work every day. ''It's the most photographed item in Amsterdam.'' A disused ferry was placed on the IJ to take 400 more bikes. But still, he said, demand far outstrips supply.
Commuters like to drop their bikes close to the station before jumping on a train, often just chaining them to lampposts in front of the station entrance, he said. Workers remove about 100 such bikes every day, hacksawing through chain locks, Mr. van Heijningen said.
Still, no one dreams of limiting bike use. Indeed, when the renowned Rijksmuseum, the city's crown jewel, reopened in April after a 10-year, $500 million renovation, biking lobbyists celebrated a victory when guards removed barriers to a bicycle passageway through the center of the museum. The museum's director, Wim Pijbes, had sought to eliminate the bike route and put the museum's main entrance on the site, routing bikers around the building to protect pedestrians. But the Cyclists' Union, backed by a petition that showed overwhelming popular support for the bike route, carried the day.
''The lobby certainly helped,'' said Mr. Koorn, the city transportation official.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Amsterdam has more bicycles than people, and although it has thousands of bike racks, demand for them still outstrips supply.
 Bicycles clog streets and cause traffic jams, but as one official put it, ''You cannot imagine if all this traffic were cars.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PAVEL PROKOPCHIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FERRIES (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (76%); CITIES (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); CHILDREN (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); LAND USE PLANNING (70%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (69%); CYCLING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CHUBU JAPAN (79%) NETHERLANDS (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); DENMARK (79%); EUROPE (76%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2013



672 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 5347 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
Art
Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art. A searchable guide to these and many other art shows is at nytimes.com/events.
Museums
Brooklyn Museum: 'LaToya Ruby Frazier: A Haunted Capital' (through Aug. 11) This preternaturally mature body of work by a 31-year-old photographer connects bedrooms and streetscapes, the suffering of loved ones and the afflictions of a ''distressed municipality'' (the state's official term for Ms. Frazier's hometown, Braddock, Pa.). Simultaneously introspective and extroverted, it's composed of arresting black-and-white photographs that sometimes look like studio portraits or social documentaries but aren't fully at home in either category. Brooklyn Museum, 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, Brooklyn, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Karen Rosenberg) 
&#x2605; Brooklyn Museum: 'John Singer Sargent Watercolors' (through July 28) Sargent fans and watercolor hobbyists will be in heaven with this exhibition's more than 90 watercolors from the first decade of the 20th century, all from the collections of the Brooklyn Museum and the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, and all representing picturesque scenes in Europe. Sargent pioneered the kind of loosely gestural yet clearly representational watercolor painting that today's popular culture adores. He has his detractors, though, who may profit from re-examining their prejudices in light of this beautiful show. 200 Eastern Parkway, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Ken Johnson)
&#x2605; Brooklyn Museum: 'Gravity and Grace: Monumental Works by El Anatsui' (through Aug. 4) Born in Ghana and long a resident of Nigeria where he maintains a productive studio, El Anatsui has for the past decade been creating spectacularly large, fabric-like sculpture from countless numbers of liquor-bottle caps linked together with twists of copper. The work weaves together ideas about colonialism, politics and economics, and is absolutely gorgeous. The Brooklyn show, which originated at the Akron Art Museum in Ohio, also includes a number of the artist's earlier and now-overlooked carved wood pieces, which are well worth studying. 200 Eastern Parkway, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Holland Cotter)
&#x2605; The Cloisters: 'Search for the Unicorn: An Exhibition in Honor of The Cloisters' 75th Anniversary' (through Aug. 18) The lonely subject of the ''Unicorn Tapestries'' is united with others of its species in ''Search for the Unicorn,'' honoring the 75th anniversary of the Cloisters. Drawn from the Met's holdings and from other public and private collections, it includes manuscripts, paintings, decorative objects and ''unicorn horns'' (actually the tapered, spiral-patterned tusks of the narwhal). The show is a gateway to various fantasy worlds, some of them beyond the scope of medieval Western Europe; a page from the ''Shahnama,'' the Persian ''Book of Kings,'' shows the monarch Iskandar (otherwise known as Alexander the Great) fighting off the one-horned, equine Monster of Habash. 99 Margaret Corbin Drive, Fort Tryon Park, Washington Heights, (212) 923-3700, metmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; International Center of Photography: 'A Different Kind of Order: The ICP Triennial' (through Sept. 22) The fourth, and best, edition of the International Center of Photography's triennial turns out to be that extremely rare thing in New York City these days, an exhibition of contemporary art for adults. The up-to-the-minute emphasis is on the continuing and enveloping impact of digital technology on photography. The results, as seen here, couldn't be more varied and gripping in content. This is a show that's in touch with the big, live, real world out there beyond Frieze New York. 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, (212) 857-0000, icp.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Jewish Museum: 'Jack Goldstein x 10,000' (through Sept. 29) The first American museum retrospective of this brilliant but elusive artist, organized by the Orange County Museum of Art, is both a celebration and a cautionary tale. It revels in Goldstein's posthumous influence as it reveals the tragic disconnect of his life and his art, the desire to disappear complicated by an intense careerist drive. This exhibition offers (in addition to paintings, sculptures and Goldstein's signature films of the late 1970s) a rare look at the early, performance-based films: works like ''Milk,'' in which the persistent banging of a fist on a table finally topples a glass, or ''Spotlight,'' in which a beam chases the artist around an empty room. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, (212) 423-3200, thejewishmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Jewish Museum: 'As it were ... So to speak: A Museum Collection in Dialogue With Barbara Bloom' (through Aug. 4) Ms. Bloom, invited to organize a show from elements of the museum's collection, has turned to the Talmud for inspiration. Weaving together real and fictional narratives, historical and literary sources, she creates new and often ambiguous contexts for ceremonial and decorative objects like Torah pointers, Kiddush cups and spice containers. Somehow she manages to quote Nietzsche, Freud, Leonard Cohen, Joan Didion, the Bible and various Wikipedia entries, all without losing her own probing, skeptical voice. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, (212) 423-3200, thejewishmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'African Art, New York, and the Avant-Garde' (through Sept. 2) Timed to the centennial of the Armory Show of 1913, this exhibition tells the story of African art's debut in cutting-edge New York museums and galleries with exceptional candor. It makes clear that early-20th-century Americans received Modern art and African art as a single import, derived from French and Belgian colonies, distilled in Paris and presented on these shores by a few tastemaking dealers and collectors. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'At War With the Obvious: Photographs by William Eggleston' (through July 28) In 36 transcendentally beautiful photographs shot in the Mississippi Delta region in the 1970s and early '80s, this pioneer of color photography captured those kinds of sacred moments when something you ordinarily would pass by without a thought -- a children's swing set overgrown by weeds, an abandoned gas station, a basket of fake flowers hanging on someone's front door -- suddenly takes your breath away. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Cambodian Rattan: The Sculptures of Sopheap Pich' (through July 7) Born in Cambodia in 1971, Soheap Pich first came to international attention in 2009 with a series of openwork, basketlike rattan sculptures that looked as light as air, but carried serious ideas in images of half-built cities, viscera, flowers and bombs. His impressive Met show is embedded in the permanent Asian collection. It starts outside the Chinese painting galleries, continues in mezzanine space usually devoted to South Asian material, and concludes in the galleries of Southeast Asian art with a gorgeous suspended Buddha. (An exhibition of new work is on view through June 14 at Tyler Rollins Fine Art, 529 West 20th Street, in Chelsea.) (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'The Civil War and American Art' (through Sept. 2) If you've seen ''Photography and the American Civil War'' at the Met, you might suppose that viewing another exhibition about the war would be redundant. It's not. With outstanding works by Frederic Edwin Church, Sanford Robinson Gifford and Winslow Homer, this gripping show sheds expansive light on the nation's experience of its own fratricidal conflict. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)
Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Photography and the American Civil War' (through Sept. 2) As intellectually fascinating as it is emotionally wrenching, this exhibition is sure to be remembered as one of the great museum photography shows ever. Its more than 200 photographs include expansive images of battlefields and war-ruined towns; wallet-size portraits of soldiers; preciously framed daguerreotypes; political campaign buttons; a doctor's documents of horrifically wounded soldiers; portraits of loved ones in lockets; and a series depicting the hanging of five co-conspirators in the assassination of President Abraham Lincoln by the photographer Alexander Gardner. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)
Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Punk: Chaos to Couture' (through Aug. 14) This entertaining exhibition proves that high fashion rarely looks quite as frivolous and cluelessly 1 percent-ish as when it upgrades aspects of the obstreperous punk sartorial mode, adding gold-plated safety pins, careful rips and holes, and a feigned DIY look that can involve materials like garbage bags or cellophane. Cleverness abounds. A few designers absorb and transform punk attributes, but most garments simplistically scream punk. Not for nothing do they call the show's organizing department the Costume Institute. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Roberta Smith)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'The Roof Garden Commission: Imran Qureshi' (through Nov. 3) Visitors to the Met's rooftop will discover something shocking: the stone terrace is splattered with paint the color of dried blood so that it resembles the scene of some terrible crime. Looking closer at the areas of spillage, viewers will find they have been delicately altered. With deft white and red brush strokes, the Pakistani artist Imran Qureshi has worked into the raw paint a pattern suggestive of leafy shrubbery and flower petals, turning the whole into a politically fraught, allegorical mix symbolizing dualities of life and death and hope and despair. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Velázquez's Portrait of Duke Francesco I d'Este: A Masterpiece from the Galleria Estense, Modena' (through July 14) This single-painting exhibition highlights a portrait made at a delicate diplomatic moment during the Thirty Years' War; the painting is on loan to the Met in part because the museum that normally houses it, the Galleria Estense in Modena, is repairing damage from a 2012 earthquake in the region. It's a chance to see another commanding Velázquez at this already well-stocked museum, and to appreciate that this artist's politically savvy portraits are more than just tools of statesmanship. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; MoMA PS1: 'Expo 1: New York' (through Sept. 2) A sprawling, multisite extravaganza including a multitude of installations, shows-within-shows and events, ''Expo 1: New York'' offers few answers but raises many provocative questions about the current and future state of our planet's unsettled human and natural ecology. Attractions at PS1 range from a beautiful show of pictures by the beloved nature photographer Ansel Adams to a refrigerated room containing chunks from an Icelandic glacier by Olafur Eliasson. On 53rd Street, next to the Museum of Modern Art, ''Rain Room'' invites viewers into a chamber where steady precipitation ceases wherever bodies are detected by high-tech hardware. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, (718) 784-2084, ps1.org. (Johnson)
&#x2605; Morgan Library & Museum: 'Subliming Vessel: The Drawings of Matthew Barney' (through Sept. 2) With its Gospels and reliquaries, the Morgan Library is at the right place for the first survey of graphic work by the most medievalizing of American contemporary artists. Encased in thick, pale, plastic frames, Mr. Barney's drawings of the past two decades have the look of precious pages from sacred books displayed on iPads. His images, with their emphasis on redemption through fleshly mortification, suggest sources in heroic epics and penitential religion, filtered through Sade and extreme sports. A display of collage-like storyboards for his films confirms the occult glamour of the personal cosmology he has developed, which feels as artificial and addictive as a video game. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Museum of Arts and Design: 'Against the Grain: Wood in Contemporary Art, Craft and Design' (through Sept. 15) This sixth show in the museum's Materials and Process series is a big improvement on its predecessors, mostly because it feels more artist- and designer-driven. Representing the Chelsea gallery contingent are Alison Elizabeth Taylor, with marquetry installations; Phoebe Washburn and Leonardo Drew, with scrap-wood sculptures; and Roy McMakin, with slyly repurposed found furniture. From the design-fair circuit come functional works like Mark Moskovitz's ''Facecord,'' a sideboard that looks like a stack of firewood when the drawers are closed, and Maarten Baas's knife block in the shape of a head (which seems destined for the MoMA design store). 2 Columbus Circle, Manhattan, (212) 299-7777, madmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Museum of Modern Art: 'Ellsworth Kelly: Chatham Series' (through Sept. 8) Together again for the first time in 40 years, the 14 two-panel Chatham paintings from 1971 offer giddy instruction in the weights, measures and balances of strong color -- red, blue, green, yellow, black and white. The works -- abutting rectangles that form an inverted L -- seem to expand or contract as you move around the gallery. An adjoining display of 40 small collages from 1951 shows Mr. Kelly laying out some of the stringent abstract vocabulary that he has mined ever since. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)
&#x2605; Museum of Modern Art: 'Claes Oldenburg: The Street and the Store' and 'Claes Oldenburg: Mouse Museum, Ray Gun Wing' (through Aug. 5) Pop Art is based on two things: ordinariness and eating. It's about daily consumption; the democratic appetite, ravenous for meat, sweets, life on the street, and getting more of everything, cheap. No artist cooked up a tastier version of the primal Pop recipe than Claes Oldenburg did in New York in the late 1950s and early '60s. The art he made in that brief, fecund time is the focus of a two-meals-for-the-price-of-one MoMA feast. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Museum of Modern Art: 'Bill Brandt: Shadow and Light' (through Aug. 12) With nearly 160 works ranging from photographs of London in the 1930s and during World War II to nearly abstract Surrealist nudes from the 1950s and '60s, this impeccable survey makes a strong if slightly over-edited argument for Brandt as one of the founders of modern photography. It sticks to vintage prints and brings a wonderful lucidity to a persistent balance of art and humanity that is, as it is frequently described: strange, mysterious and irresistible. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)
Museum of Modern Art: 'Performing Histories (1)' (through Aug. 5) An awareness of the uprisings, protests, occupations and revolutions erupting around the globe is present in ''Performing Histories (1),'' a show of video, film and photographic work recently acquired by MoMA. Insurrection and resistance pervade the Romanian artist Ion Grigorescu's film ''Dialogue With Ceausescu'' (1978), while the feminist personal as political is employed in Martha Rosler's ''She Sees in Herself a New Woman Every Day'' (1976) and Sharon Hayes's four-channel video ''The Interpreter Project'' (2001). Andrea Fraser's two videos connect politics and the museum. In one she describes how scientific philanthropy in the 19th century directed wealth to museums and other public institutions rather than the poor, while another video delves into how MoMA itself interacted with revolutionaries and communists, like the Mexican muralist Diego Rivera. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Martha Schwendener)
&#x2605; Neue Galerie: 'Koloman Moser: Designing Modern Vienna 1897-1907' (through Sept. 2) Along with his better known colleague, Josef Hoffmann, Moser co-founded the Wiener Werkstätte, the consortium of designers and artisans that produced some of the 20th century's most beautiful objects. Focusing on Moser's most productive years, this gorgeous exhibition presents more than 200 exquisitely elegant works, including books, glassware, metal pieces, ceramics, jewelry and furniture. 1048 Fifth Avenue at 86th Street, (212) 628-6200, neuegalerie.org. (Johnson)
New Museum: 'Adhocracy' (through July 7) The term ''adhocracy'' was coined by the futurologist Alvin Toffler, who predicted that innovative, ad hoc forms of organization would replace more bureaucratically entrenched structures in business and government. This crowded design exhibition presents a variety of self-empowering things that people can make and do for themselves like build their own furniture and bicycles; make new appliances from functional parts of old, broken ones; raise money for bigger projects by means of Kickstarter; and, more problematically, make their own functional handguns using 3-D printers. 231 Bowery, (212) 219-1222, newmuseum.org. (Johnson)
&#x2605; Rubin Museum of Art: 'Lisa Ross: Living Shrines of Uyghur China' (through July 8) In 2002, traveling in the desert region of far western China, the New York photographer Lisa Ross encountered a variety of wind-battered religious markers, including corral-like fences built around trees and boxlike wooden enclosures swathed in cloth -- all either shrines to Sufi saints and objects of religious pilgrimage or graves of devotees. This beautiful show is a record of Ms. Ross's repeated visits to monuments that were meant to be spiritually functional, formally arresting and fleeting. 150 West 17th Street, Chelsea, (212) 620-5000, rmanyc.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Whitney Museum of American Art: 'Hopper Drawing' (through Oct. 6) With more than 200 drawings, two dozen sketchbook pages and an essential bonus of 21 paintings, this landmark exhibition takes us behind the curtain of stillness that makes Hopper's art so riveting to reveal as never before how he used preparatory studies to synthesize reality, memory and imagination. Some of his greatest paintings -- ''NewYork Movie,'' ''Nighthawks'' -- and other gems are here. An overview indicates how the young Hopper shaped and toughened his versatile gifts into a singular vision. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Smith)
Galleries: Uptown
&#x2605; 'Gardening by the Book: Celebrating 100 Years of the Garden Club of America' (through July 27) This wonderful show presents more than 125 illustrated tomes about flowers and gardening from four centuries. Loaded with marvels of acute observation and exacting draftsmanship, it begins with Emanuel Sweert's illustrated catalog of more than 500 bulbs and flowers thought to have ignited the Tulipmania craze and ends with first editions of books by the environmentalist Rachel Carson. It is altogether a terrific treat for minds and eyes. Grolier Club, 47 East 60th Street, Manhattan, (212) 838-6690, grolierclub.org. (Johnson)
&#x2605; Paul McCarthy: 'Life Cast' (through July 26) One of the outstanding shows of the artist's career is best viewed as a single piece. Three fanatically realistic life-size sculptures of naked humans are paired with two video installations that reveal the meticulous casting process behind their ecstatic, mysterious exactitude. The piece is a homage to -- but also perhaps penance for -- Marcel Duchamp's ''Étant Donnés'' and its obsessive focus on the female sex. Hauser & Wirth, 32 East 69th Street, Manhattan, (212) 794-4970, hauserwirth.com. (Smith)
'Salvaging the Past: Georges Hoentschel and French Decorative Arts from The Metropolitan Museum of Art' (through Aug. 11) This sometimes arcane but highly effective assemblage of rare furnishings, artifacts and a smattering of art and printed matter resurrects a once-renowned French interior designer whose collections -- and displays -- of 18th-century French decorative material and Medieval art were purchased en bloc by J.P.Morgan and given to the Met. They formed the nuclei of the museum's holdings in these areas, helped shape its departmental structure and influenced the arrangement of its galleries in numerous ways. Bard Graduate Center: Decorative Arts, Design History, Material Culture, 18 West 86th Street, Manhattan, (212) 501-3023, bgc.bard.edu. (Smith)
Galleries: Chelsea
Laddie John Dill: 'Elementary' (through July 26) At the end of the 1960s the West Coast Light and Space artist Laddie John Dill began producing electric light works out of blown glass tubes in a lush palette of jewel-bright colors. Here, nine of these works, all from 1971, are installed in one room at regular intervals creating a trippy visual chamber music. Elsewhere, glowing constructions of glass panes in geometric arrangements could be models for updates of Stonehenge, monuments for a new cosmic paganism. Nyehaus, 358 West 20th Street, (212) 366-4493, nyehaus.com. (Johnson)
'Ellsworth Kelly at Ninety' (through June 29) An impressive three-part display of new work (mostly from 2012) reveals a seasoned artist who is doing some of his boldest work. Some introduce new forms (but are actually derived from his early collages). Others expand on more recent works with changes in material and color. Keep an eye out for ''Black Form II,'' ''Yellow Relief Over Blue,'' ''Gold With Orange Reliefs'' and the four-panel ''Curves on White.'' Matthew Marks Gallery, 522 West 22nd Street, (212) 243-0200, matthewmarks.com. (Smith)
&#x2605; Ralph Fasanella: 'A More Perfect Union' (through June 29) If Fasanella (1914-97) had been a trained painter, his political beliefs might have resulted in predictable Social Realist paintings. Instead, this child of the working-class Bronx largely taught himself and evolved an altogether sharper and more original manner, politically and pictorially. This fantastic little five-decade survey summarizes his development and his ability to weave history, architecture and layered social criticism into remarkable tapestry-like compositions that teem with human activity good and bad, homey details and a spectrum of glowing colors. Andrew Edlin Gallery, 134 10th Avenue, near 18th Street, (212) 206-9723, edlingallery.com. (Smith)
Jeff Koons: 'New Paintings and Sculptures' (through July 3) Hastily assembled as a retort to Mr. Koons's ''Gazing Ball'' exhibition now at David Zwirner, this exhibition reveals the artist to be both highly productive and uneven. His Photo Realist paintings are uniformly lifeless. The best works are a magenta stainless steel balloon sculpture inspired by the Venus of Willendorf and an inflatable gorilla, rendered in a dark material that resembles plastic or bronze but is actually polished granite. Gagosian Gallery, 555 West 24th Street, (212) 741-1111, gagosian.com. (Smith)
Jeff Koons: 'Gazing Ball' (through June 29) In his latest series, the artist everyone loves to hate could be said to revisit his ''Banality'' series of the late 1980s. He appropriates blazing white plaster casts of well-known Greco-Roman sculptures -- the ''Farnese Hercules,'' ''Sleeping Satyr (Barberini Faun)'' and ''Belvedere Torso'' -- and accents each with a blue mirrored ball of the yard-ornament variety to add irony and visual pizazz. Fighting cliché with cliché, they are neither especially good or bad, just average Koons. David Zwirner, 525 West 19th Street, (212) 727-2070, davidzwirner.com. (Smith)
Marc Quinn: 'All the Time in the World' (through June 29) Four much enlarged, bronze sculptures of seashells made by high-tech 3-D replication seem, at first, like pointless baubles for rich collectors. But they reveal an unexpected inner beauty both literal and metaphorical, as their polished interiors cause their interiors to warmly glow as if supernaturally illuminated from within. Implicitly vaginal, these seeming products of phallic ambition become objects of oceanic, feminine mystery. Mary Boone, 541 West 24th Street, (212) 752-2929, maryboonegallery.com. (Johnson)
Galleries: SoHo
&#x2605; 'Mel Bochner: Proposition and Process: A Theory of Sculpture (1968-1973)' (through June 29) This beautiful exhibition is a veritable time capsule. It shows the artist's pioneering Conceptual works in a setting redolent of the early artist-oriented, pre-retail era of SoHo -- which is when they were made. Defiantly modest, they parse Minimalist space, measuring it openly with non-Minimalist objects (small stones, walnuts, burned matches) often annotated with writing or drawing in chalk, repeatedly locating the place where language, counting and dimensional experience overlap, to the confusion and excitement of eye and mind. Peter Freeman, 140 Grand Street, between Crosby and Lafayette Streets, (212) 966-5154, peterfreemaninc.com. (Smith)
Galleries: Other
Jane Alexander: 'Surveys (From the Cape of Good Hope)' (through July 29) The Cathedral of St. John the Divine is an occupied zone this spring, with a transient population of unearthly beings camped out in its chapels and aisles. Neither angels nor devils, though suggesting both, the figures in the sculptural tableaus and related photographs were all created by the South African artist Jane Alexander. And while haunted by her country's history of apartheid, the work has no single meaning, no sum-upable content. Instead, painstakingly calibrated ambiguity leaves this strange and wonderful show open to political speculation and spiritual interpretation. Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine, 1047 Amsterdam Avenue, at 112th Street, Morningside Heights, (212) 316-7490, stjohndivine.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; 'Alice Aycock Drawings: Some Stories Are Worth Repeating' (through July 13) A Minimalist turned unabashed fantasist, the sculptor Alice Aycock is one of the more visionary figures to have emerged from the New York art scene of the 1970s. Her imagination is especially active on paper, as seen in this two-part show at the Grey Art Gallery and the Parrish Art Museum in Water Mill, N.Y. It's best to begin at the Grey, where diagrams and maquettes conjure Duchamp-esque machines and proposals for ''non-functional architecture'' -- for instance, the medievalesque ''City of the Walls'' -- are accompanied by free-associative film treatments. At the Parrish, earlier renderings of fantastical machines and architecture give way to games: elaborate, multicolored drawings based on tantric diagrams, ancient illuminated manuscripts and 19th-century British game boards, among other sources. Grey Art Gallery, New York University, 100 Washington Square East, Greenwich Village, (212) 998-6780, nyu.edu/greyart. Parrish Art Museum, 279 Montauk Highway, Water Mill, N.Y., (631) 283-2118, parrishart.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Simon Dinnerstein: 'The Fulbright Triptych' (ongoing) This little-known masterpiece of 1970s realism was begun by the young Simon Dinnerstein during a Fulbright fellowship in Germany in 1971 and completed in his hometown, Brooklyn, three years later. Incorporating carefully rendered art postcards, children's drawings and personal memorabilia; a formidable worktable laid out with printmaking tools and outdoor views; and the artist and his family, it synthesizes portrait, still life, interior and landscape and rummages through visual culture while sampling a dazzling range of textures and representational styles. It should be seen by anyone interested in the history of recent art and its oversights. German Consulate General, 871 United Nations Plaza, First Avenue, at 49th Street, (212) 610-9700, germany.info. (Smith)
Out of Town
&#x2605; Smithsonian American Art Museum: 'Nam June Paik: Global Visionary' (through Aug. 11) Including a large and fascinating trove of material from the Nam June Paik archive, acquired by the Smithsonian from the artist's estate in 2009, this survey of the avant-garde musician, multimedia wizard and video art pioneer (1932-2006) looks startlingly current despite the preponderance of analog televisions and other obsolete hardware. It makes clear that contemporary artists like Christian Marclay, Jon Kessler, Cory Arcangel, Ryan Trecartin and Haroon Mirza owe a great deal to Mr. Paik's tweaked TV sets and frenetic, technically innovative videos. Eighth and F Streets NW, Washington, (202) 633-1000, americanart.si.edu. (Rosenberg)
Last Chance
&#x2605; Simon Hantai (closes on Saturday) In the late 1960s the Hungarian-born artist Simon Hantai (1922-2008) developed a versatile technique called pliage: painting canvases that had been folded and tied, and then unfurling them to reveal all-over abstractions. The examples in this show (which coincides with a retrospective at the Pompidou Center in Paris) fall into three categories: the intricate ''Études''; the more simplified, geometric ''Tabulas''; and the multicolored ''Blancs.'' In all of them you can see, when up close, a delicate skein of faint crease lines interlaced with the more explosive painted patterns. Paul Kasmin Gallery, 515 West 27th Street, Chelsea, (212) 563-4474, paulkasmingallery.com. (Rosenberg)
Karen Heagle: 'Battle Armor' (closes on Saturday) Karen Heagle takes emblems of medievalism and disarms them with color. In her pieced-together paintings, helmeted suits of mail and motorcycles, those modern battle steeds look like rainbow-colored images in stained-glass windows or on gold-covered rinpa screens, overseen in this show by portraits of two all-conquering cinematic archangels, Charlotte Rampling and Isabella Rossellini. Churner and Churner, 205 10th Avenue, Chelsea, (212) 675-2750, churnerandchurner.com. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Julie Mehretu: 'Liminal Squared' (closes on Saturday) Julie Mehretu's paintings superimpose clusters of short brush strokes and the occasional sweeping vector over intricate architectural plans and elevations, staging a contest between two kinds of drawing or, as T J Demos writes in a catalog essay, ''between architecture and gesture, between representation and abstraction.'' In these new works the top layer seems to be winning, or at least vying harder for attention; it's loose and glyphic in ''Co-Evolution of the Futurhyth Machine (After Kodwo Eshun),'' and pixelated in ''Insile'' (which is further distinguished by a floating white trapezoid). Marian Goodman Gallery, 24 West 57th Street, Manhattan, (212) 977-7160, mariangoodman.com. (Rosenberg)
Anna Ostoya and Barbara Leoniak: 'Disclosures' (closes on Saturday) In this conceptually multipronged exhibition are two beautifully made paintings by Ms. Ostoya based on a snapshot of two men kissing. Art world insiders will recognize them as the Marxist critic Benjamin H.D. Buchloh, who often advocates for artists affiliated with Marian Goodman Gallery, and the conceptualist Lawrence Weiner, who regularly exhibits at that gallery. Ms. Ostoya thus slyly satirizes alpha male bonding and an unholy alliance between criticism and the art market. Bortolami Gallery, 520 West 20th Street, Chelsea , (212) 727-2050, bortolamigallery.com. (Johnson)
Andreas Schulze: 'Windows' (closes on Sunday) After a 13-year absence from New York, this terrific German artist has had two exhibitions at this gallery in 14 months. The second features deadpan renderings of recognizably Northern European windows, stoutly framed, often with sturdy metal handles and, always, a view that suggests the arrival of cloud-parting light. The basic nature of painting as a window on an illusionistic world is evoked, with the handles signaling both our disbelief and its suspension. Team Gallery, 83 Grand Street, (212) 279-9219, teamgal.com. (Smith)
Margaret Weber (closes on Sunday) Recycled industrial carpets are Ms. Weber's thing. In her impressive solo debut she methodically picks apart big swaths of them, layer by layer and thread by thread. Her subtractive handiwork relaxes these slyly pictorial postminimal artworks that retain something of their previous corporate status. Especially indicative of her eco-friendly reverse craft is ''Eater,'' which resembles an unusually elegant version of 1970s fiber art. Ramiken Crucible, 389 Grand Street, Lower East Side, (917) 434-4245, ramikencrucible.com. (Smith)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (96%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); PAINTING (89%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); SCULPTURE (79%); PHOTOGRAPHY (79%); VISUAL ARTISTS (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (79%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (76%); ANNIVERSARIES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); AKRON, OH, USA (52%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); GHANA (77%); NIGERIA (77%); EUROPE (69%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2013



673 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 637 words

HEADLINE: Justices Support Corporate Arbitration

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Supreme Court on Thursday reinforced the ability of corporations to write their own rules for resolving disputes with customers, finding that a group of merchants were bound by an arbitration agreement with American Express even if the terms made it prohibitively expensive to pursue some types of claims against the company.
Businesses generally regard arbitration as a cheaper and more efficient way to resolve disputes. Consumer advocates say the terms of the agreements can allow companies to escape accountability. The courts increasingly have sided with the companies, steadily limiting the circumstances in which customers can pursue claims outside of the arbitration process. 
Thursday's 5-to-3 ruling limits the ability of customers to pursue class actions. The conservative majority held that companies could require individual arbitration even if a class action is the only way to make the claim economically viable. The law, Justice Antonin Scalia wrote, does not ''guarantee an affordable procedural path to the vindication of every claim.''
Business groups hailed the ruling as the end of a long legal battle.
''The Supreme Court today eliminated the last significant obstacle to adoption of fair, efficient arbitration systems that increase access to justice for consumers while reducing transaction costs for everyone,'' Andrew J. Pincus, a lawyer at Mayer Brown who won a related Supreme Court arbitration case in 2011, said in a statement after the announcement.
Consumer advocates, by contrast, said the court was infringing on a longstanding principle that arbitration agreements must allow ''effective vindication'' of rights.
''The upshot of that is that companies like American Express can use these forced arbitration clauses to give themselves immunity from federal laws,'' said F. Paul Bland Jr. of Public Justice, a nonprofit consumer advocacy group.
The case, American Express Company v. Italian Colors Restaurant, began when the merchants sued American Express over the fees they were required to pay each time a customer charged a purchase.
American Express is a dominant provider of the charge cards that are favored by many corporations and affluent individuals. Businesses wishing to accept those cards must also agree to accept American Express credit cards, which are less popular. And American Express charges the merchants higher fees on each credit card transaction than Visa or MasterCard. (Charge card transactions must be paid in full each month; credit cards allow customers to carry a balance.)
The merchants argued that American Express was violating antitrust laws. Their contracts required such claims to be submitted to individual arbitration, but the merchants argued that the potential winnings were too small to justify the cost of mounting individual antitrust cases. They sought judicial approval to pursue the claim as a class action.
The United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit ruled in their favor.
In overturning that decision, Justice Scalia wrote that the individual arbitration requirement was not a barrier to pursuing claims, but a limitation on the terms of pursuit. He cited high filing fees as an example of the kind of requirement that, by contrast, might not be allowed.
Justice Elena Kagan, writing for the three dissenters, said the effect was the same.
''If the arbitration clause is enforceable, Amex has insulated itself from antitrust liability -- even if it has in fact violated the law,'' she wrote. ''The monopolist gets to use its monopoly power to insist on a contract effectively depriving its victims of all legal recourse.''
She summarized the majority's response as ''too darn bad.''
Justice Sonia Sotomayor, who was a member of the Court of Appeals when it ruled on the case, did not participate in the Supreme Court decision.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: American Express was accused of using forced arbitration as a way to prevent merchants from bringing a class-action suit. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN MOORE/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (92%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); CLASS ACTIONS (90%); CREDIT CARDS (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); LAWYERS (75%); CONTRACTS LAW (74%); APPEALS COURTS (73%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (73%); AFFLUENT MARKET (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (68%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (66%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (63%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (50%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (86%); MAYER BROWN LLP (56%)

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (86%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (86%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (86%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (56%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: ANTONIN SCALIA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2013



674 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1858 words

HEADLINE: Concern for Minorities as Catholic Schools Close

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ

 BODY:
Sonia Sotomayor lives in Washington, but she has never forgotten her roots in the Bronx. On a drizzly March afternoon, she returned to Blessed Sacrament School, where she began her celebrated, if improbable, journey from her South Bronx childhood to the Supreme Court. But instead of a joyous reunion, it was more of a valedictory for her and the children -- the school is closing for good.
''I'm really upset,'' Justice Sotomayor told a fourth-grade class. ''It's hard to say goodbye. I won't tell you it's easy. I won't lie to you.''
The children drew close and peppered her with questions: Why is the archdiocese closing the school? Doesn't it know their parents worked hard? Why couldn't it come up with the money? One girl, crying, got up and slumped into Justice Sotomayor's embrace. The justice, her voice steady and reassuring, reminded the children to cherish the good times and move confidently ahead. But later, she, too, revealed her pain. 
''The worst thing is, these kids could lose their faith in the adults around them,'' she said in an interview inside her old fifth-grade classroom. ''Children need to feel secure. This makes it worse. These kids are going to carry this trauma with them for the rest of their lives.''
Justice Sotomayor's emotions are shared by a generation of accomplished Latino and black professionals and public servants who went from humble roots to successful careers thanks to Catholic schools. But they fear that a springboard that has helped numerous poor and working-class minority students achieve rewarding lives is eroding as Catholic schools close their doors in the face of extraordinary financial challenges and demographic shifts.
Since 2011, the Archdiocese of New York has closed 56 schools, the vast majority of them elementary schools, including 13 in the Bronx. Now 219 schools remain in the education system. Blessed Sacrament is one of 26 schools closing this year throughout the archdiocese, which covers the Bronx, Manhattan, Staten Island and seven counties north of New York City.
According to archdiocesan figures, enrollment in elementary and high schools shrank to 75,875 this year from 95,837 in 2006. While the Latino percentage of total enrollment increased during that period, the proportion of black elementary school students dropped precipitously, to 17 percent of enrollment from 31 percent.
Catholic high schools, which routinely boast of near 100 percent college admissions for their graduates, are worried that they will face harder times with fewer parochial schools to feed their ranks. And minority alumni are increasingly alarmed that New York will be deprived of a future generation of professionals -- like lawyers, doctors and executives -- to contribute economic and cultural vitality.
''The Catholic schools have been a pipeline to opportunity for generations,'' said Justice Sotomayor, who was raised by her mother after her father, an alcoholic, died. ''It gave people like me the chance to be successful. It provided me and my brother with an incredible environment of security. Not every school provides that.''
The story is much the same in other large cities, including Boston, Chicago and Los Angeles, where church officials have closed or consolidated schools.
Besides Justice Sotomayor, the list of New York Catholic elementary school alumni includes Cesar A. Perales, the New York secretary of state; Fernando Ferrer, a former Bronx borough president; Bobby Sanabria, a Grammy-nominated musician and educator; Theodore M. Shaw, a former head of the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund; and Julissa Reynoso, the United States ambassador to Uruguay.
Like their Irish and Italian predecessors, their parents chose Catholic schools believing that they offered a better education than the local public schools and taught religious values that would help keep their children on the right path.
For its part, the archdiocese says it is not abandoning urban schools, even after several wrenching years of closings, shoring up finances and reassuring angry parents and fearful alumni.
Having moved away from the old parish-based elementary school model, Catholic school officials have created regional districts where resources and help are more efficiently shared. And for the schools that are vulnerable, especially those in places like the South Bronx, the officials have established a $20 million annual fund to provide scholarships and a $6 million fund for operating expenses.
''The inner city is where we do our best work,'' said Timothy J. McNiff, the archdiocese's superintendent of schools. ''Why would we walk away from it?''
Accomplishing that mission was a lot easier during the school system's golden era in the 1960s, when low-paid nuns taught classrooms bursting with youngsters in parishes where large congregations contributed enough to keep tuition low. Mr. Ferrer said his mother paid about $4 a month to send him and a sister to St. Anselm's in the late 1950s and early 1960s. Today it would be $420 for two children.
The draw, Mr. Ferrer said, was not only that the parochial school system provided a better education than available in the public schools, but also that it was a Catholic education rooted in shared values.
''Puerto Ricans by and large are culturally conservative,'' he said. ''My mother was faithful to the traditions from Puerto Rico, which valued that. There was enormous trust of religion. To whom else would you entrust your children?''
That trust was strong enough to lead Nelly Maseda's father to insist she be taken out of public school in Washington Heights and enrolled at Incarnation elementary school in the 1970s. He was dying of cancer, leaving her to be raised by a mentally ill mother, a drug-addicted brother and a brother with a violent temper.
It was at Aquinas High School in the Bronx that she discovered her talents, motivated by teachers with high expectations and a guidance counselor who encouraged her.
She once thought she would be a secretary. Instead, she became a pediatrician.
''I had no self-esteem,'' Dr. Maseda said. ''But Aquinas, without a doubt, made all the difference. It gave me a vision of what I could be.''
For some black students, Catholic schools were a place to compete and prove themselves. Mr. Shaw, now a professor at Columbia Law School, said his experience as one of the few blacks at Holy Family School in the Bronx taught him a valuable life lesson.
''I was near the top of the class,'' Professor Shaw said. ''That myth of racial inferiority and superiority was dispelled for me because I went to school with white students.''
A more formative experience awaited him in high school, when he was selected for one for the earliest classes of the Archbishop's Leadership Project in the late 1960s, which took promising black teenagers and exposed them to black literature, history and culture.
''It was not a college-bound program, per se,'' Professor Shaw said. ''It was to train people to be leaders in their communities.''
He thinks the stakes are even higher now. He said the wave of parochial school closings could not come at a worse time. The Supreme Court, which includes his Cardinal Spellman High School classmate Justice Sotomayor, will soon rule on what is expected to be a landmark affirmative action case on college admissions.
''This could be an opportunity for the court to strike a fatal blow against affirmative action or diversity efforts,'' he said. ''At the same time that is happening, you're seeing the closure of many of the Catholics schools in black and brown communities. That is a double blow, since the only way they had been in a position to compete for admission into elite institutions has been because of their Catholic school education.''
The system that educated tens of thousands of working-class and poor children has itself been substantially transformed. The Second Vatican Council prompted droves of nuns to leave teaching for other careers, and a steep, and continuing, drop in the vocations led the schools to rely on lay teachers who demanded fair wages and better working conditions.
While some local public schools in poor areas continue to perform below average on reading and math scores, the rise of charter schools and small theme-based academies has presented parents with alternatives that a previous generation did not have. Many of these newer schools try to replicate the discipline, core curriculum and even the uniforms of Catholic schools.
But Pedro Noguera, a professor of education at New York University, said part of the reason for the success of parochial schools was the partnership forged with parents and the community, which is not always the case with charter schools.
''I think it is a mistake to say the charter schools will fill the void left by parochial schools,'' said Dr. Noguera, whose research has focused on the achievement of black and Latino boys, adding, ''It is a huge void that unfortunately the public schools cannot fill because they do not have the same values and culture.''
The close bond between parents and Catholic schools has been tested as the system has faced financial disaster. In 2008, Dr. McNiff, the schools superintendent, noted, there was a systemwide deficit of $23 million that had to be paid not by individual schools, but by the archdiocese.
The result was a series of closings that have left many bitter. But Dr. McNiff said closing half-empty schools that were in aging buildings provided significant savings. And the fact that about two-thirds of the students in closed schools transferred to other parochial schools helped strengthen the remaining schools.
He is now looking to next year, when he expects the State Legislature to consider tax incentives that could allow corporations to finance scholarships for parochial school students -- something already happening in 17 states.
''We're trying to hold the line,'' he said. ''It's a false impression that we're walking away from Catholic education. We closed a number of buildings, but there are still seats for all the children who want to go to our system.''
As the archdiocese goes forward with fewer schools, the task is to reassure parents.
At Blessed Sacrament, Justice Sotomayor's old school, three quarters of the fourth-grade class is transferring to Santa Maria School, a few stops away on the No. 6 line. Liz Luciano, a single mother and surgical sales representative, had thought of sending her son Edward to a charter school, but decided against it in favor of Santa Maria.
She is still angry about how the archdiocese went about closing the school, after suggesting parents might be able to devise a plan to save it before the decision to close it was made. ''I think they lied to us,'' Ms. Luciano said. ''We never had a chance.''
The transition for her is a bit easier, since she can drive her son to school as well as benefit from a scholarship that allows her to pay $200 a month, instead of the full $440 tuition.
''We have to go out of our way now to take our kids to a different school that we're not sure is not going to close,'' she said. ''They say it's not. But we know they've wanted to close these schools for a long time.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SONIA SOTOMAYOR: The Supreme Court justice with students at her alma mater, Blessed Sacrament, in the Bronx in March. The school is closing. ''These kids could lose their faith in the adults around them,'' Justice Sotomayor said in an interview. ''Children need to feel secure. This makes it worse.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
FERNANDO FERRER: The former Bronx borough president graduated from Cardinal Spellman High School in the Bronx. When Mr. Ferrer attended St. Anselm's in the 1950s and '60s, tuition was low -- his mother paid $4 a month for him and his sister. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KIRSTEN LUCE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A16)
CESAR A. PERALES: New York's secretary of state is a graduate of archdiocesan schools.
THEODORE M. SHAW: The former head of the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, now a law professor, said that as one of the few black students at Holy Family School, he learned he could compete.
 DR. NELLY MASEDA: The pediatrician once thought she would be a secretary. Dr. Maseda said teachers with high expectations at Aquinas High School in the Bronx helped motivate her. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ÁNGEL FRANCO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (89%); RELIGION (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (71%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (69%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: NAACP LEGAL DEFENSE & EDUCATIONAL FUND (59%)

PERSON: SONIA SOTOMAYOR (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2013



675 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 878 words

HEADLINE: A Terminal at J.F.K. Is More Than Just 'Endangered'

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
Now departing from Kennedy International Airport: the Pan Am flying saucer.
With its elliptical four-acre parasol roof -- cantilevered so far out that it almost seemed to be floating over the tarmac -- Terminal 3 has long been a distinctive remnant of early jet travel and an emblem of Pan American World Airways, once considered the most glamorous American carrier (when ''glamour'' and ''airline'' could occupy the same sentence without irony). Pan Am called it the Worldport. Almost everyone else thought of it as a flying saucer.
By extending the roof 114 feet out from the terminal, through a cable system that made the top of the building look like an ensemble of small suspension bridges, Pan Am's architects sought to protect passengers from the rain and snow. ''It will eliminate the huddled dash through bad weather by extending the roof like a huge oblong umbrella over the aircraft parking space,'' Richard Witkin wrote in The New York Times in 1957 as he described the plan. 
Pan Am went under in 1991. Delta Air Lines then began using the Worldport. Last month, Delta decamped to greatly expanded space in Terminal 4 and closed Terminal 3 for good, after 53 years of service.
Seeing the handwriting on the wall, the National Trust for Historic Preservation placed the terminal on its annual roster of America's 11 Most Endangered Places, released Wednesday, saying that the building ''symbolizes America's entry into the Jet Age.''
While the trust has no regulatory or legal power to impede demolition, its national imprimatur is often used by local preservationists to bolster their attempts at persuasion.
In the case of Terminal 3, however, ''endangered'' may be an understatement. ''Doomed'' is more like it.
Despite the existence of an impassioned grass-roots Save the Worldport campaign and an online petition that has attracted more than 3,000 supporters, there seems to be no cosmic scale on which the structure's fate rests, capable of tipping one way or another.
Delta has every intention of demolishing Terminal 3. Workers are already removing asbestos and lead paint to prepare it for wrecking crews.
By 2015, the airline plans to have turned the site into a parking zone for aircraft that cannot be accommodated or are not needed at the gates of Terminals 2 and 4, both of which are used by Delta. As it is, idle aircraft must be towed across the airport, said Leslie P. Scott, a spokeswoman for Delta. ''This aircraft parking will drive a lot of operational efficiencies for us,'' she said. ''Planes will get to the gates quicker.''
The National Trust's suggestion to incorporate the terminal into a connecting passageway between Terminals 2 and 4 has been rendered moot by Delta's abandonment of the connector plan, Ms. Scott said.
The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which owns and runs Kennedy, could conceivably interfere with Delta's plans. But it is a very willing partner in the redevelopment.
''The old Pan Am Worldport terminal at J.F.K. served this region for more than a half century, but is obsolete for 21st-century aviation purposes,'' said Ron Marsico, a spokesman for the authority. ''Unfortunately, J.F.K. is a land-constrained airport, and the space where Worldport is located cannot be set aside for preservation because it is needed for other aviation uses that will lead to job creation and economic growth.''
In fact, the authority was persuaded more than a decade ago -- sometimes kicking, if not screaming -- to preserve and restore Eero Saarinen's T.W.A. Flight Center, which is a landmark in every sense, including officially. Today, its low-slung, bird-winged profile is easily the most memorable work of architecture in the airport complex. However, it has not returned to full-time use. Mr. Marsico said the authority was negotiating with a hotelier.
The former National Airlines Sundrome, by I. M. Pei & Partners, was torn down in 2011. Protests were lodged, but no serious preservation effort was made. The building may have been too austere to engender the kind of affectionate embrace that Kalev Savi, Anthony Stramaglia and Lisa Turano Wojcik have thrown around Worldport in their Quixotic campaign to save it.
Mr. Savi's mother worked for Pan Am, as he did part-time when he was in college. Mr. Stramaglia flew Pan Am frequently as a youth. And Ms. Wojcik's father, Emanuel N. Turano of Ives, Turano & Gardner, was one of the architects of the Worldport, along with Walter Prokosch of Tippetts-Abbett-McCarthy-Stratton.
They professed encouragement on Wednesday.
''A year or so ago, Anthony and I felt like we were the only two people in the world who seemed to care that the flying saucer building was going to be demolished,'' Mr. Savi wrote in an e-mail. ''This announcement of having made the most endangered 11 sites in America list for 2013 is validation by the U.S.A.'s leading historical preservation society that the claims we have been making are true.''
Mr. Stramaglia said he hoped to inspire interest in a building that was designed to be a showcase. ''Public apathy toward mundane things like air terminals these days, especially in today's world,'' he wrote, ''make a trip to the airport more like a trip to the dentist.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Terminal 3 at Kennedy Airport, which is to be torn down, was once known as the Worldport. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID W. DUNLAP/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); AIRPORT OPERATION (89%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (74%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (72%); HISTORIC SITES (70%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (69%); HISTORY (65%); ASBESTOS REMEDIATION (50%); LEAD PAINT (50%)

COMPANY: PAN AM CLIPPER CONNECTION (92%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL TRUST FOR HISTORIC PRESERVATION (54%)

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2013



676 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 431 words

HEADLINE: Court Appearance

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER

 BODY:
LONDON -- Tom A.W. Hayes, a former trader at UBS and Citigroup who has been charged with fraud tied to the manipulation of global benchmark interest rates, made his first appearance in a London court on Thursday. 
Standing behind a glass wall with his hands in his pockets, Mr. Hayes, 33, listened as eight fraud charges against him were read out. The charges cover a period from August 2006 to September 2010 -- half related to his time at UBS and half to his time at Citigroup in Japan.
Mr. Hayes faces charges of conspiring with employees at financial institutions including UBS, Citigroup, JPMorgan Chase, Royal Bank of Scotland, Deutsche Bank, Rabobank, Tullett Prebon, ICAP and RP Martin to seek to manipulate yen London interbank offered rates, or Libor.
His lawyer, Lydia Jonson, did not enter a plea on his behalf.
Mr. Hayes, who wore a blue shirt, beige trousers and brown shoes, spoke only to confirm his name and give his address and date of birth. Mr. Hayes is to remain on bail, which means he is not allowed to leave or attempt to leave Britain, pending his next court hearing, which is scheduled to be at Southwark Crown Court on July 4.
The charges against Mr. Hayes are the first brought against an individual by British prosecutors in the rate-rigging scandal. Mr. Hayes, a British citizen, and another former UBS trader, Roger Darin, 41, of Switzerland, have been charged with conspiracy by the United States Justice Department in a criminal complaint that was unsealed in December. United States prosecutors have also charged Mr. Hayes with price fixing, stemming from an accusation that he had collaborated with another bank to rig interest rates.
The new charges were filed nearly a year after the first settlement in the Libor case, when Barclays of Britain agreed to pay $450 million to British and American authorities. American and British authorities later reached a settlement with Royal Bank of Scotland, which agreed in February to pay $612 million over its role in the Libor scandal.
As part of a settlement with United States authorities last year, UBS agreed to pay $1.5 billion and its Japanese subsidiary pleaded guilty to one count of felony wire fraud.
UBS is one of more than a dozen global banks at the center of a continuing investigation by authorities in the United States and Britain into the manipulation of Libor, which serves as a benchmark to help set the borrowing costs for trillions of dollars of financial products like mortgages, business loans and credit cards.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); CONSPIRACY (90%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SCANDALS (89%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (89%); GUILTY PLEAS (78%); FELONIES (78%); LITIGATION (78%); WIRE FRAUD (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); PRICE FIXING (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); LAWYERS (74%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (74%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); BAIL (72%); INTERBANK LENDING (66%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (64%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); UBS AG (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (71%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (57%); COOPERATIEVE CENTRALE RAIFFEISEN-BOERENLEENBANK BA (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (53%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); UBSN (SWX) (92%); UBS (NYSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); RBS (NYSE) (71%); RBS (LSE) (71%); RBS (AMS) (71%); DEUT (JSE) (57%); DBK (FRA) (57%); DBK (BIT) (57%); DBETN (JSE) (57%); DBA (ASX) (57%); DB (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2013



677 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 534 words

HEADLINE: Home Resales Rose 4% in May, but Economic Growth Is Uncertain

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Sales of previously occupied homes in May surpassed the five million mark. The monthly gain, an indication that the housing market is strengthening, had not been that high in three and a half years. 
The National Association of Realtors said Thursday that home resales rose 4.2 percent in May to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 5.18 million, an increase from April's pace of 4.97 million.
Sales last exceeded five million in November 2009. During that month and October 2009, a home-buying tax credit briefly inflated the sales pace. Before that, sales had not been above five million since July 2007.
While the sales pace is still below the 5.5 million that is consistent with healthy markets, it has risen nearly 13 percent in the last 12 months.
And with a tight supply of homes on the market, the median sales price rose to $208,000 -- the highest since July 2008.
''Housing is now the strongest part of the economy in growth terms,'' said Jim O'Sullivan, chief United States economist at High Frequency Economics.
In other economic news on Thursday, the Conference Board said a measure of the American economy's future health improved only slightly. But the modest gain for May followed a jump in April that suggested economic growth could pick up later this year.
The Conference Board said its index of leading indicators increased 0.1 percent last month to a reading of 95.2, helped by stock prices. That came after a stronger 0.8 percent rise in April.
The index is intended to signal economic conditions three to six months out. It has been posting steady gains since December, one of many favorable signs for a stronger second half of the year.
Ken Goldstein, Conference Board economist, said growth would depend on the strength of housing and consumers, which have helped offset government spending cuts and weak exports.
In China, the world's second-largest economy, manufacturing slowed at a faster pace in June as demand weakened, according to a report from HSBC on Thursday. A monthly purchasing managers index from HSBC fell to a nine-month low of 48.3 in June. Numbers below 50 indicate a contraction.
And in the United States, applications for unemployment benefits rose by 18,000 last week to a seasonally adjusted 354,000. Despite the gain, the level remains consistent with moderate job growth.
The Labor Department said on Thursday that the less volatile four-week average increased by 2,500, to 348,250.
Applications are a proxy for layoffs. Since January, they have fallen 6 percent. That suggests companies are cutting fewer jobs.
At the same time, hiring has been steady, despite an increase in taxes on Jan. 1 and steep federal spending cuts that began in March.
Jennifer Lee, an economist at BMO Capital Markets, said that the increase in applications made it less likely that hiring would accelerate this month but that job growth remained moderate.
''The overall U.S. labor market is improving,'' Ms. Lee said.
Employers added 175,000 jobs in May, nearly matching the average monthly gain for the past year. The unemployment rate ticked up to 7.6 percent, from 7.5 percent, but for a good reason: more Americans were confident they could find work and began searching for a job.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXISTING HOME SALES (93%); REAL ESTATE (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (87%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); TAX INCENTIVES (75%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); TAX LAW (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); LAYOFFS (61%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (60%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (58%)

PERSON: WILLIAM P SULLIVAN (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2013



678 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1041 words

HEADLINE: Nearing the One-Year Mark, Egypt's Leader Is Besieged by Critics

BYLINE: By BEN HUBBARD and MAYY EL SHEIKH

 BODY:
CAIRO -- Across Egypt, angry crowds have barred President Mohamed Morsi's appointees from their offices, millions have signed petitions calling for his ouster and work crews have fortified the headquarters of the Muslim Brotherhood that propelled him to power to prevent attacks the police have failed to stop.
As the one-year anniversary of Mr. Morsi's inauguration as Egypt's first freely elected president approaches, he faces widespread discontent from a swath of society and stinging grass-roots campaigns that have undermined his ability to wield power and address the country's most pressing problems. 
''If I were a ruler, I would be very concerned about this, because the street is out of your control,'' said Emad Shahin, a political science professor at the American University in Cairo. ''It is out of everyone's control.''
Mr. Morsi inherited a dysfunctional state, one worn down by decades of Hosni Mubarak's authoritarian system, which marginalized the masses and empowered and enriched an elite few. But during his year in office, life has grown only harder. Now as the summer heat arrives and the holy month of Ramadan approaches, power cuts, gas shortages and rising food costs have made the crisis a profoundly personal matter for many citizens.
''The whole country is sinking, and it is people like us who feel it the most,'' said Emad Mohammed, who reupholsters chairs in the poor Cairo neighborhood of Deir al-Malak. He said that all of his costs had risen and that drivers charged more for deliveries because buying gas means waiting in hourlong lines.
All of this has left Mr. Morsi with few allies beyond the Muslim Brotherhood. This week the country's top Muslim cleric rebuffed those who called anti-Morsi protests un-Islamic and declared it religiously permissible to protest peacefully against one's leaders, and the patriarch of Egypt's Coptic Church publicly criticized Mr. Morsi's performance.
And the situation may soon grow even worse for the president. Egypt's disparate and disorganized opposition is calling for mass protests on June 30. Many worry that demonstrations could inflame the country's intensely polarized politics and ignite new unrest, further weakening the nation.
Mr. Morsi and his allies argue that he still has electoral legitimacy and that the opposition has rebuffed his efforts to reach out, leaving him no choice but to rely on Brotherhood members for support and top posts. They also say post-revolution difficulties are no surprise.
''When it comes to our current performance, we had hoped to do better, but the challenges are great and we believe that nobody could have performed better,'' said Murad Ali, a spokesman for Mr. Morsi's Freedom and Justice Party.
Egypt's economy has been declining since the revolution, with unrest chasing away investors and tourists. Foreign currency reserves are half of what they were under Mr. Mubarak. The country's stock exchange hit an 11-month low last week, Reuters reported, and the Egyptian pound has fallen by 10 percent since last year.
Analysts describe the government as stuck in a downward spiral: its weakness prevents it from taking decisive measures, which allows the situation to get worse, which causes more discontent.
For months, the government has been negotiating a $4.8 billion loan on fairly easy terms from the International Monetary Fund. The thinking is that if the I.M.F. approved a loan, that could give the government the credibility it needs to unlock billions more dollars in aid and loans. But if a deal is reached, it will probably mean reducing subsidies for energy -- a step many fear will incite the public.
Ragui Assaad, an economist at the University of Minnesota who studies Egypt, said such a deal had been possible in other countries -- but only when there had been a strong government.
''There are ways to do it, but you need a credible government so that when you say people will be compensated, they believe you,'' he said.
But it is just that -- credibility -- that Mr. Morsi is struggling to regain as protesters challenge his authority across the country.
His newly appointed culture minister has not entered his office in two weeks since demonstrators who accuse him of trying to ''Brotherhoodize'' the ministry occupied the building.
Mr. Morsi seemed to aggravate the situation this week when he appointed 17 new governors, 7 from the Muslim Brotherhood, setting off protests in many cities as activists burned tires, chained shut doors and blocked some new appointees from reaching their offices while besieging others inside, the state news media reported.
In the city of Tanta, clashes between Brotherhood members and protesters left 32 people wounded.
In Luxor, the naming of a member of the Gamaa al-Islamiyya, a group that once carried out terrorist attacks in the same area, prompted carriage drivers to block the city's Nile-front boulevard. Egypt's tourism minister threatened to resign in protest, though it was unclear on Thursday if he had left his post.
Harnessing the anti-Morsi feeling is a grass-roots campaign that claims to have collected millions of signatures calling for Mr. Morsi to step down.
The group's volunteers have fanned out to cities across the country to gather signatures, holding signs that read ''Leave!'' The group says it will present its final petition to Egypt's Constitutional Court to request that it withdraw confidence from Mr. Morsi and appoint an interim president to lead until new elections.
The campaign has exasperated Mr. Morsi's supporters, who have initiated a countercampaign and accuse the opposition of being antidemocratic. The Muslim Brotherhood is planning its own rally on Friday under the banner of ''No to violence,'' although activists on both sides acknowledge that the anniversary protests could lead to clashes.
''When George W. Bush had a 22 percent approval rating, Americans didn't talk about early presidential elections,'' one aide to Mr. Morsi said.
Mr. Morsi himself has dismissed the opposition as antirevolutionary and loyal to the old government.
''With the current state of polarization and without reaching an understanding or working together, we will reach hell and kill each other in the streets,'' said Mr. Ali, the spokesman for Mr. Morsi's party.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Protesters in Cairo, unhappy with President Mohamed Morsi, have occupied the offices of his new culture minister, preventing him from entering. (A4)
 Egyptians waited for bread at a bakery in Cairo. ''The whole country is sinking, and it is people like us who feel it the most,'' a resident of the neighborhood said. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TARA TODRAS-WHITEHILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); PETITIONS (78%); MUBARAK RESIGNATION (78%); POWER FAILURES (77%); RAMADAN (77%); RELIGION (77%); MEN (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (69%); ANNIVERSARIES (57%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (54%)

PERSON: MOHAMMED MORSI (91%); HOSNI MUBARAK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (94%) EGYPT (97%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2013



679 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 990 words

HEADLINE: Unemployment and Inflation Still Are Big Worries as Fed Pulls Back

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, meant to deliver two dollops of good news on Wednesday: the economy is doing better, and the Fed is determined to keep it that way. He announced that the Fed would extend one part of its stimulus campaign, suggested that it might extend another part, and offered new details about the timing.
Yet his primary audience, the investors whose decisions spread Fed policy through the economy, responded as if the news had been grim. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index took its worst two-day dive since November 2011 and has lost 5 percent of its value in the last month. Wells Fargo, the nation's largest mortgage lender, raised its advertised rate on 30-year loans to 4.5 percent from 3.9 percent in the same period. 
The call-and-response underscores the complexity of the Fed's task as it seeks to do more to help the economy, but not too much.
Fed officials increasingly are convinced that they are finally doing enough to stimulate the economy -- not just the steps already taken, but the plans they have detailed for the next several years. That is why they felt comfortable suggesting that they could begin before the end of the year to scale back their purchases of government securities. But some critics see clear evidence in the persistence of high unemployment and low inflation that the Fed should do even more. And many others are simply nervous.
''People aren't sure that the economy is well enough for the Fed to pull back,'' said Paul Christopher, chief international strategist at Wells Fargo Advisors. ''The market is signaling to the Fed that we don't trust your assessment of the economy; we don't trust your assessment of inflation.''
On Wednesday, Mr. Bernanke sought to underscore that the Fed still planned to stimulate the economy on a big scale over the next few years. The central bank continues to hold short-term interest rates near zero, and Mr. Bernanke said it might maintain that policy for longer than previously expected. The Fed has amassed more than $3 trillion in Treasury securities and mortgage-backed securities, and Mr. Bernanke said that it no longer intended to sell the mortgage bonds as the economy improved.
Yet public attention focused almost entirely on the least potent part of the Fed's stimulus effort, its pledge to expand its holdings of mortgage bonds and Treasuries to increase job growth.
Those purchases will continue for now, but Mr. Bernanke for the first time sketched a timeline for winding them down, beginning this year and ending next summer, as long as growth keeps pace with the Fed's expectations. Specifically, he said that the Fed expected the unemployment rate to decline to 7 percent by next summer, from 7.6 percent in May.
Many investors responded as if Mr. Bernanke had said only that the Fed soon intended to reduce its bond purchases.
This was a good demonstration of the difference between probably and certainly. While the timeline generally corresponded to investors' expectations, Mr. Bernanke's remarks made it official. And his repeated insistence that investors should focus instead on the evolution of economic data worked about as well as telling people not to think about purple kangaroos.
''If you draw the conclusion that I've just said that our policies, that our purchases will end in the middle of next year, you've drawn the wrong conclusion, because our purchases are tied to what happens in the economy,'' Mr. Bernanke said in one response to a question at a news conference on Wednesday.
Some analysts and economists said the reaction was particularly striking because the Fed seemed more committed than ever to its stimulus campaign.
''They are getting very close to where I would have had them be two or three years ago,'' said Joseph E. Gagnon, a former Fed economist and architect of the first round of asset purchases who is now a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics. ''I find it odd, and probably the chairman is surprised and unhappy with the market reaction, too.''
The Fed declined on Thursday to comment on the market reaction to Mr. Bernanke's remarks. But he expressed himself clearly during the news conference on the negative market response since his last public appearance in May. ''Well, we were a little puzzled by that,'' he said.
He also acknowledged that the Fed might need to respond if the market's reaction persisted. ''It's important to understand that our policies are economic-dependent,'' he said. ''And in particular, if financial conditions move in a way that makes this economic scenario unlikely, for example, then that would be a reason for us to adjust our policy.''
Some analysts said that would not be necessary, arguing that the market would soon settle down.
Others, however, saw legitimate reasons for concern.
The Fed has made the unemployment rate the measuring stick for its stimulus effort. It doubled down on Wednesday by saying that it would buy bonds until the rate fell to 7 percent.
But the unemployment rate so far has fallen almost entirely because people have stopped looking for work. The share of adults with jobs, known as the employment-to-population ratio, has barely changed over the last three years. In past recoveries, declining unemployment has encouraged people to re-enter the labor market, but some economists argue that that will not begin to happen until the rate falls well below 7 percent.
''Why is monetary policy linked to unemployment rate as opposed to employment-to-population ratio?'' Amir Sufi, an economist at the University of Chicago, wrote on Twitter. ''Seems bonkers. Does anyone seriously think labor market is improving dramatically?''
Jan Hatzius, chief economist at Goldman Sachs, wrote in an e-mail that he doubted the Fed's current plans would be sufficient. ''I am much less sanguine under our forecasts for the economy,'' he wrote, ''and to a somewhat lesser degree even under theirs.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clockwise, from top left. A screen shows the Hang Seng index at the Hong Kong Stock Exchange on Thursday. Traders at the Frankfurt stock exchange, and a trader on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange at the closing bell. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KIN CHEUNG/ASSOCIATED PRESS
LIZZA DAVID/REUTERS
MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHARTS: Is It Time Yet for the Fed to Slow Down? In response to the financial crisis, and to stave off a deeper recession, the Federal Reserve's aggressive programs, including the purchase of mortgage-backed securities and Treasuries ... (Sources: Federal Reserve
Bloomberg
 Bureau of Labor Statistics) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); BONDS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); INTEREST RATES (74%); MORTGAGE BANKING (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (69%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (65%); MORTGAGE LOANS (54%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (83%); WELLS FARGO ADVISORS LLC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2013



680 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 478 words

HEADLINE: Vince Flynn, 47; Wrote Best-Selling Thrillers

BYLINE: By PAUL VITELLO

 BODY:
Vince Flynn, a best-selling author of thriller novels set in a world of canny terrorists, inept politicians and freedom-loving counterterrorist assassins, died on Wednesday in St. Paul. He was 47. 
The cause was prostate cancer, said a spokesman for his literary agency, ICM Partners.
Mr. Flynn wrote 14 books, with a total of 15 million copies sold in the United States. All but the first book featured his protagonist Mitch Rapp, the sometimes freelance, sometimes C.I.A.-employed killer whose vigilante instincts were ignited by the death of his high school sweetheart, Maureen. (The story line puts her on Pan Am Flight 103, destroyed over Lockerbie, Scotland, in 1988 by a terrorist bomb.)
His first book, ''Term Limits,'' in which commandos assassinate three powerful politicians in Washington, was rejected by so many publishers, Mr. Flynn said, that he decided to publish it himself and sell copies out of the trunk of his car. His brisk sales, and his charismatic salesmanship, landed him a deal with Simon & Schuster's Pocket Books, which included the first chapter in a booklet insert in USA Today. In 1999, ''Term Limits'' became a paperback best seller.
The Mitch Rapp character was born in his second book, ''Transfer of Power.'' Mr. Flynn wrote about a novel a year from then on. All of them made The New York Times's best-seller list. The last six, including his final novel, ''The Last Man,'' reached No. 1.
Mr. Flynn's fans included former Central Intelligence Agency operatives; the talk-show hosts Glenn Beck, Sean Hannity and Hugh Hewitt, who frequently had him on their shows; and President George W. Bush, who invited him to the White House.
Mr. Flynn spoke of his books' popularity in an interview last year with FrontPage magazine, an online journal. ''In my series,'' he said, ''the heroes are the men and women of the Secret Service, the C.I.A., Special Forces, the whole national security apparatus. And the villains are, shockingly enough, Islamic radical fundamentalists.'' He added: ''The secondary villains that I have are politicians and bureaucrats. It's very easy to build a story around that because it's reality.''
Vincent Flynn was born in St. Paul on April 6, 1966. He graduated from St. Thomas Academy and the University of St. Thomas in St. Paul with a degree in economics. He was working as a salesman at Kraft Foods in the 1990s when he began writing his first book.
He is survived by his wife, Lysa, and three children.
''I didn't read at all when I was growing up; I was dyslexic,'' he said in a 2010 radio interview with Don Imus.
But the skills he acquired to compensate for dyslexia -- intuiting the direction of events, even when not understanding the words to the story -- served him well as a writer. Imagining shadowy plots and ways to foil them requires a lot of ''filling in the blanks,'' he said. ''That's a dyslexic gift.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Vince Flynn, in 2005
 his books centered on a killer for hire. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM MONE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); BESTSELLERS (92%); TERRORISM (91%); WRITERS (90%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); COUNTERTERRORISM (89%); PUBLISHING (78%); ASSASSINATION (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); BOOK SALES (78%); LITERATURE (78%); TERM LIMITS (78%); LITERARY AGENTS (78%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (76%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (75%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); MEN'S HEALTH (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); FOOD INDUSTRY (67%); FUNDAMENTALISM (65%); DYSLEXIA (60%); RELIGION (60%); PROSTATE DISEASE (58%); PROSTATE CANCER (57%)

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (56%); UNIVERSITY OF ST THOMAS (51%); MONDELEZ INTERNATIONAL INC (51%)

TICKER: MDLZ (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS311991 PERISHABLE PREPARED FOOD MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS311513 CHEESE MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: GLENN BECK (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2013



681 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 478 words

HEADLINE: A Pledge of Allegiance to Partisan Policy

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

 BODY:
The Supreme Court on Thursday imposed an important limit on how far the government can go in controlling the speech of a group that takes government money.
In Agency for International Development v. Alliance for Open Society International, the court found that the federal government violated the First Amendment when it required that organizations receiving money to combat H.I.V./AIDS must have a policy opposing prostitution. Chief Justice John Roberts Jr., writing for the 6-to-2 majority, said that the mandate that recipients ''pledge allegiance to the government's policy'' breached their right to free expression. (Justice Elena Kagan was recused.) 
The United States Leadership Against H.I.V./AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria Act, a 2003 federal statute, finances a wide range of public health initiatives to treat and prevent disease around the world. That law prohibits the use of any government money to ''promote or advocate the legalization or practice of prostitution.'' But it goes beyond that reasonable provision to require almost all recipients of funds to ''have a policy explicitly opposing prostitution'' and to refrain from any speech the government deems ''inconsistent with'' that policy.
The government contended that placing a condition on federal dollars is a legitimate way to promote its policies and those who do not want to make an explicit pledge can avoid it by not taking government money. As Justice Antonin Scalia wrote in his dissenting opinion, ''the government is not forcing anyone to say anything.''
But as Chief Justice Roberts explained, this condition is coercive because a recipient has to take an affirmative position and is not allowed to get funds ''and then turn around and assert a contrary belief, or claim neutrality, when participating in activities on its own time and dime.''
By requiring recipients to advocate the government's position, without the option of staying silent, the court said this policy could hurt outreach programs by undermining trust with sex workers, who may avoid seeking help from groups with a declared anti-prostitution agenda.
This ruling does not limit the government's power to specify the kind of activities it wants to subsidize. For example, the court has long held that the government can prohibit federal family planning dollars from being used to advocate for abortion services; in those cases, the recipient groups are permitted to use nongovernmental money for that advocacy.
Chief Justice Roberts, quoting from a 1943 opinion barring the government from requiring public schoolchildren to salute the flag, noted: ''If there is any fixed star in our constitutional constellation, it is that no official, high or petty, can prescribe what shall be orthodox in politics, nationalism, religion, or other matters of opinion.'' That principle guided the court to the right result in this case.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); DECRIMINALIZATION (90%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); PROSTITUTION (89%); LITIGATION (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (78%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (72%); CHILDREN (72%); TUBERCULOSIS (71%); MALARIA (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); RELIGION (62%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (60%); ABORTION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (84%)

PERSON: JOHN ROBERTS (78%); ANTONIN SCALIA (58%); ELENA KAGAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2013



682 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 

LENGTH: 873 words

HEADLINE: Why American Jews Matter

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN

 BODY:
LONDON -- New ideas are scarce on Israel-Palestine but Secretary of State John Kerry may have the semblance of one: If major American Jewish organizations are among Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's most important constituencies, perhaps those same groups can exert leverage over Israeli policy toward the Palestinians.
It is a long shot -- these organizations have shown deep reluctance to criticize Israel -- but then along came Kerry's trump card in the form of Naftali Bennett, the Israeli economy minister. This nationalist neophyte has performed a public service by clarifying the objective inherent in Israeli settlement expansion in the West Bank: ''The attempt to establish a Palestinian state in our land has ended,'' he said this week. 
Speaking to a settlers' conference, Bennett urged Israel to ''build, build, build'' in order to establish an ''Israeli presence everywhere,'' called for the rapid annexation of more than 60 percent of the West Bank, declared that the land had been Israel's for 3,000 years, and characterized the quest for a two-state solution as a colossal exercise in futility.
In short, two states? Fuhgeddaboutit.
His comments followed equally dismissive remarks early this month from Danny Danon, the deputy defense minister. He said most Israelis had ''given up the idea of land for peace'' and urged Israel to annex wide swaths of the West Bank.
Bennett and Danon were being explicit about an aim implicit in Israeli actions -- as opposed to words -- since the lightning victory in the 1967 war delivered all the land between the Mediterranean Sea and the Jordan River and ignited a strong vein of Israeli religious nationalism. The ''miracle'' of annexation of East Jerusalem and control of the West Bank was proof of a mission to hold all of Eretz Israel -- the biblical ''Land of Israel'' to which Bennett referred. (At the age of 41, Bennett has never lived in an Israel that did not exercise humiliating dominion over West Bank Palestinians.)
This Messianic view of the Jewish state's destiny has grown for the past 46 years, despite undertakings from various leaders, including Netanyahu in 2009, to seek a two-state peace. If the number of Israeli settlers in the West Bank, outside East Jerusalem, has almost doubled in the past dozen years to over 350,000 (Bennett put the number at 400,000), it is because the notion that all the land belongs to Israel by divine decree has been ascendant and compromise increasingly seen as a deficit of faith. Construction has spelled out what official government policy could not quite say: We have no plans to leave.
It is in this sense that Bennett's statement is a true public service. Far better to have clarity about the meaning of Israel's actions in the West Bank than to have a fait accompli -- the growing settler presence -- cloaked in governmental opacity about the ultimate objective. If the aim is known then a judgment can be made, not least by American Jewish organizations.
Kerry, in a speech this month to the American Jewish Committee (A.J.C.), laid out what holding all the land means: ''Israel will be left to choose between being a Jewish state or a democratic state, but it will not be able to fulfill the founders' visions of being both.'' That is no less true for being a tired refrain. Then, after evoking a menacing future in the absence of peace, he made his pitch: ''No one has a stronger voice in this than the American Jewish community. You can play a critical part in ensuring Israel's long-term security. And as President Obama said in Jerusalem, leaders will take bold steps only if their people push them.''
The A.J.C. executive director, David Harris, decided to push -- with a punchy denunciation of Bennett. The minister's remarks, he said, were ''stunningly shortsighted,'' must be ''repudiated by the country's top leaders'' and offer ''only the prospect of a dead-end strategy of endless conflict and growing isolation for Israel.'' To say such language is unusual at major U.S. Jewish organizations is an understatement: Israel has had near carte blanche from them, with negative consequences.
Of course the no-state view of the other is not peculiar to Bennett. Many Palestinians, their national movement split, still dream of all the land, the destruction of Israel, the 1948 borders rather than compromise at the 1967 borders, or unworkable one-state options that are code for the elimination of a Jewish state.
Nothing would advance the just cause of Palestinian statehood faster than the irrevocable renunciation of violence by all factions and reconciliation between them on the basis of territorial compromise with Israel. But Israel must make up its mind. Netanyahu has distanced himself from Bennett, saying he sets foreign policy. The fact is, however, that Bennett has articulated the policy that exists. He is not an outlier.
Harris deserves applause for his stand. American Jewish organizations must go further if Israel is ever to turn its back on the maximalist territorial temptation that inflicts on disenfranchised Palestinians the very exclusion Jews lived over centuries.
Irish-Americans played a significant role in the Northern Ireland peace. American Jews can have similar influence on Israel-Palestine.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); RELIGION (89%); PROPERTY ANNEXATIONS (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (72%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (88%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%) MEDITERRANEAN SEA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (53%) ISRAEL (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); JORDAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2013



683 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 868 words

HEADLINE: Dealing With Russia

BYLINE: By DENIS CORBOY, WILLIAM COURTNEY and MICHAEL HALTZEL

 BODY:
Western leaders have been largely silent while President Vladimir Putin unleashes a campaign of police-state tactics against Russians who voice opposition to him. Yet by emphasizing human rights, the West can inspire those in Russia who seek more freedom, without putting at risk most other important goals with Russia.
Russia is not a totalitarian Soviet Union redux. But the measures Putin has employed since large demonstrations against his rule began appearing in late 2011 suggest a Soviet-like arrogance of power. On the defensive, Putin is shoring up his political base by mobilizing nationalists and xenophobes. 
Independent groups such as Golos, which monitors elections, and Memorial, which promotes human rights and honest history, may soon close because they refuse to register as ''foreign agents,'' a term that in Russian connotes spies. In recent weeks Garry Kasparov, a chess grandmaster, Pavel Durov, founder of Russia's largest social media company, and Sergei Guriev, who led the country's top economics school, have opted to stay abroad for fear of politically motivated arrest.
A dozen participants in a May 2012 anti-Putin protest are on trial for inciting violence that most observers say security forces initiated. Alexei Navalny, a popular political blogger who says he wants to run for president, is being tried on trumped-up charges. Conviction, which is likely, would render him ineligible to run for office.
Journalists critical of officialdom have been beaten. Other Russians are arrested on concocted charges, a tactic designed to intimidate the increasingly alienated urban middle class. State-controlled television feeds viewers a diet of harsh anti-U.S. propaganda uncommon even in Soviet times.
Despite the rapid decline in freedoms, most Western leaders have refrained from strong criticism. They may fear that it would hurt the attainment of other important goals, but this is unlikely. Most Western ties with Russia are transactional and would be little affected. Russia sells energy to Europe, America reimburses Russia for space launches to the international space station, and NATO allies pay for transport access through Russia to support their forces in Afghanistan. Russia needs Western technology to develop energy deposits in the Arctic, and it profits from the growing land transport between Europe and China.
To be sure, cooperation with Russia in some areas is uncertain, but for reasons unrelated to Western policy on human rights. Moscow resists pressuring the Assad regime in Damascus, and likely sees a prospective international conference on Syria as a way to buy time while it continues to arm the regime.
Negotiations on a new U.S.-Russian nuclear arms accord, touted by President Obama on Wednesday in Berlin, may founder because the Kremlin seeks to protect a huge advantage in nonstrategic nuclear weapons and objects to U.S. missile defense plans. Russia seeks easier visa rules with the West, but criminality and overstay problems undermine prospects.
In the 1990s, the West lost popular support in Russia by advising the privatization of state properties but then not criticizing corrupt implementation. The West ought not to err in the same way today by failing to defend those who face heightened repression.
Western leaders could begin by calling the Kremlin to account for rights violations. In July 2009, at Guriev's New Economic School in Moscow, Obama pointed to the value of freedom of speech and assembly. Since then he has been cautious in criticizing Russian abuses, and unfortunately was silent about them publicly after meeting with Putin on Monday in Northern Ireland.
Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany has been more forthright. Last November, in front of Putin, she condemned the sentencing of young women who peacefully protested in a Moscow cathedral, and in April she said independent organizations in Russia deserved a ''good chance.''
Western leaders should realize that Putin's campaign to limit freedoms will increasingly constrain the political space in Russia for cooperation with the West.
In lower-key ways as well, the West can do more. It should offer more venues for independent groups to present evidence of abuses. The West can provide more training outside Russia to leaders of beleaguered organizations. Even parents skeptical of Western influences want their children to obtain a more globalized education abroad or at home, which the West can facilitate.
It is past time for Western leaders to rebalance their policy toward Russia by putting human rights and political freedoms back on the agenda.
The pursuit should not be a crusade. Rather, it ought to become a more integral part of Western policy. This would also send a welcome message to abusers and victims elsewhere.
Denis Corboy, a visiting senior research fellow at Kings College, London, served as European Commission ambassador to Armenia and Georgia. William Courtney was U.S. ambassador to Kazakhstan and Georgia, and special assistant to the president for Russia, Ukraine and Eurasia. Michael Haltzel, senior fellow at Johns Hopkins University's School of Advanced International Studies, was staff director for Europe at the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (74%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); SOCIAL MEDIA (68%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (67%); WRITERS (66%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (66%); SPACE EXPLORATION (61%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); SPACE STATIONS (50%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (90%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); EUROPE (92%); SYRIA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); CHINA (79%); ARCTIC (58%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2013



684 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WAY OF THE WORLD; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1013 words

HEADLINE: The Problem With Too Many Millionaires

BYLINE: By CHRYSTIA FREELAND | REUTERS

 BODY:
NEW YORK -- The rich are getting richer. That's the conclusion of the World Wealth Report, the landmark annual study of the world's millionaires, which was released this week by RBC Wealth Management and Capgemini Financial Services.
The report found that the number of people in the world with more than $1 million to invest soared to a record of 12 million in 2012, a 9.2 percent increase over 2011. The aggregate wealth of this group hit a new high, too -- $46.2 trillion -- a 10 percent increase over the previous year. 
What is particularly striking is that even within this rich group, the very, very rich are doing best of all. The ranks of the ultrarich, whom the report defines as people with investable assets of at least $30 million, surged 11 percent, an even greater rate than the mere millionaires. This small sliver of the global population -- 111,000 people -- accounted for 35.2 percent of the entire wealth of all the world's millionaires taken together.
What are the winner-take-all forces driving this extreme concentration of wealth at the top? One explanation was offered earlier this month by Alan Krueger, the Princeton economist and departing chairman of President Barack Obama's Council of Economic Advisers. Drawing on his own previously published academic work, Mr. Krueger used the economics of what he calls ''the rock and roll industry'' to illustrate the forces more broadly at work in the world economy.
''We are increasingly becoming a 'winner-take-all' economy, a phenomenon that the music industry has long experienced,'' Mr. Krueger argued in a speech in Cleveland. ''Over recent decades, technological change, globalization and an erosion of the institutions and practices that support shared prosperity in the U.S. have put the middle class under increasing stress. The lucky and the talented -- and it is often hard to tell the difference -- have been doing better and better, while the vast majority has struggled to keep up.''
The classic free-market capitalist answer to this has been, ''So what?''
N. Gregory Mankiw, a professor of economics at Harvard University, thoughtfully makes that case in ''Defending the One Percent,'' a paper to appear in the summer issue of the Journal of Economic Perspectives, which will showcase a number of studies on the rise of the global 1 percent.
Professor Mankiw begins his argument with a thought experiment, in which an imagined ''egalitarian utopia'' is disrupted ''by an entrepreneur with an idea for a new product.''
''Think of the entrepreneur as Steve Jobs as he develops the iPod, J.K. Rowling as she writes her Harry Potter books, or Steven Spielberg as he directs his blockbuster movies. When the entrepreneur's product is introduced, everyone in society wants to buy it. They each part with, say, $100. The transaction is a voluntary exchange, so it must make both the buyer and the seller better off. But because there are many buyers and only one seller, the distribution of economic well-being is now vastly unequal. The new product makes the entrepreneur much richer than everyone else.''
Professor Mankiw argues that this imagined scenario ''captures, in an extreme and stylized way, what has happened to U.S. society over the past several decades,'' and it forms the basis of his self-described defense of the winner-take-all economy.
Of course, as Professor Mankiw himself realizes, this stylized story of the rise of the 1 percent presents the group in their most attractive guise. It doesn't include the commodities barons who have become rich by securing control of natural resources, or the bankers who have benefited from the heads-I-win-tails-you-lose deregulation of the financial services industry, or the C.E.O.'s who haven't invented anything but have profited from a culture of soaring executive pay.
Yet, even with those caveats, Professor Mankiw makes an essential point, and one that anyone who is worried about rising income inequality needs to reckon with -- many of the ultra-high-net-worth individuals flourishing in today's global economy are admirable entrepreneurs, and we would all be poorer without them.
What, then is the problem? The biggest one, alluded to by Mr. Krueger, is that the rise of the ultrarich isn't occurring in isolation. It is taking place in lock step with a darker phenomenon -- the hollowing out of the global middle class. The 2012/13 Global Wage Report by the International Labor Organization, a U.N. agency, found a world trend of a decreasing workers' share in the national income. That is true even in China, where wages are rising fast but gross domestic product is growing even more strongly.
What is most worrying is that labor productivity -- which used to be the secret sauce for making everyone better off -- has a diminished impact on wages. In the United States, according to the I.L.O., labor productivity in the nonfarm business sector has increased about 85 percent since 1980, while real wages have grown just 35 percent. Even in Germany, which we often see as a middle-class success story, labor productivity grew by nearly a quarter over the past 20 years, but real wages remained flat.
The second big, bad consequence is declining social mobility. Miles Corak, a Canadian economist whose paper is due to be published alongside Professor Mankiw's, shows that rising income inequality coincides with declining equality of opportunity. The 1 percent is very good at passing on its privilege, and those born at the bottom are finding it harder to climb up.
That is the great paradox of today's winner-take-all economy. At its best, it is driven by adopted dropouts like Steve Jobs or struggling single mothers like J.K. Rowling, who come up with something amazing and manage to prosper -- and to enrich us all. But the winner-take-all economy will make such breakthroughs for anyone who didn't make the wise choice of being born into the 1 percent harder and harder in the future, which is why we urgently need to come up with ways to soften its impact.
Chrystia Freeland is managing director and editor, consumer news, Thomson Reuters.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (95%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (69%); GLOBALIZATION (68%); ECONOMIC POLICY (65%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (64%); POP & ROCK (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%)

COMPANY: CAPGEMINI SA (58%); RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (58%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (54%)

TICKER: CAP (PAR) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (58%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (58%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (58%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%)

PERSON: STEVEN SPIELBERG (50%); BARACK OBAMA (50%); STEVEN JOBS (50%); J K ROWLING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2013



685 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: Profits Without Production

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
One lesson from recent economic troubles has been the usefulness of history. Just as the crisis was unfolding, the Harvard economists Carmen Reinhart and Kenneth Rogoff -- who unfortunately became famous for their worst work -- published a brilliant book with the sarcastic title ''This Time Is Different.'' Their point, of course, was that there is a strong family resemblance among crises. Indeed, historical parallels -- not just to the 1930s, but to Japan in the 1990s, Britain in the 1920s, and more -- have been vital guides to the present.
Yet economies do change over time, and sometimes in fundamental ways. So what's really different about America in the 21st century? 
The most significant answer, I'd suggest, is the growing importance of monopoly rents: profits that don't represent returns on investment, but instead reflect the value of market dominance. Sometimes that dominance seems deserved, sometimes not; but, either way, the growing importance of rents is producing a new disconnect between profits and production and may be a factor prolonging the slump.
To see what I'm talking about, consider the differences between the iconic companies of two different eras: General Motors in the 1950s and 1960s, and Apple today.
Obviously, G.M. in its heyday had a lot of market power. Nonetheless, the company's value came largely from its productive capacity: it owned hundreds of factories and employed around 1 percent of the total nonfarm work force.
Apple, by contrast, seems barely tethered to the material world. Depending on the vagaries of its stock price, it's either the highest-valued or the second-highest-valued company in America, but it employs less than 0.05 percent of our workers. To some extent, that's because it has outsourced almost all its production overseas. But the truth is that the Chinese aren't making that much money from Apple sales either. To a large extent, the price you pay for an iWhatever is disconnected from the cost of producing the gadget. Apple simply charges what the traffic will bear, and given the strength of its market position, the traffic will bear a lot.
Again, I'm not making a moral judgment here. You can argue that Apple earned its special position -- although I'm not sure how many would make a similar claim for Microsoft, which made huge profits for many years, let alone for the financial industry, which is also marked by a lot of what look like monopoly rents, and these days accounts for roughly 30 percent of total corporate profits. Anyway, whether corporations deserve their privileged status or not, the economy is affected, and not in a good way, when profits increasingly reflect market power rather than production.
Here's an example. As many economists have lately been pointing out, these days the old story about rising inequality, in which it was driven by a growing premium on skill, has lost whatever relevance it may have had. Since around 2000, the big story has, instead, been one of a sharp shift in the distribution of income away from wages in general, and toward profits. But here's the puzzle: Since profits are high while borrowing costs are low, why aren't we seeing a boom in business investment? And, no, investment isn't depressed because President Obama has hurt the feelings of business leaders or because they're terrified by the prospect of universal health insurance.
Well, there's no puzzle here if rising profits reflect rents, not returns on investment. A monopolist can, after all, be highly profitable yet see no good reason to expand its productive capacity. And Apple again provides a case in point: It is hugely profitable, yet it's sitting on a giant pile of cash, which it evidently sees no need to reinvest in its business.
Or to put it differently, rising monopoly rents can and arguably have had the effect of simultaneously depressing both wages and the perceived return on investment.
You might suspect that this can't be good for the broader economy, and you'd be right. If household income and hence household spending is held down because labor gets an ever-smaller share of national income, while corporations, despite soaring profits, have little incentive to invest, you have a recipe for persistently depressed demand. I don't think this is the only reason our recovery has been so weak -- weak recoveries are normal after financial crises -- but it's probably a contributory factor.
Just to be clear, nothing I've said here makes the lessons of history irrelevant. In particular, the widening disconnect between profits and production does nothing to weaken the case for expansionary monetary and fiscal policy as long as the economy stays depressed. But the economy is changing, and in future columns I'll try to say something about what that means for policy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (73%); OUTSOURCING (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%); COMPANY PROFITS (66%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%); MICROSOFT CORP (51%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (55%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2013



686 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 786 words

HEADLINE: Palestinian Premier Submits Resignation After Just Two Weeks in Office

BYLINE: By ISABEL KERSHNER; Khaled Abu Aker contributed reporting from Ramallah, West Bank.

 BODY:
JERUSALEM -- The newly appointed prime minister of the Palestinian Authority, Rami Hamdallah, submitted his resignation on Thursday after only two weeks in office, a signal of continuing internal political disarray amid the already complicated American efforts to restart the peace process with Israel.
It was not immediately clear if the president of the West Bank-based authority, Mahmoud Abbas, would accept the resignation, and analysts said the matter was primarily a domestic one that would not directly impinge on Mr. Abbas's ability to make decisions regarding Secretary of State John Kerry's peace mission. 
But analysts also said that the image of chronic political instability could undercut crucial international support for the Palestinians, both financial and political, at a time when they are supposed to be pushing for statehood. Palestinians said they viewed the political drama as another setback for the already beleaguered Mr. Abbas and his Fatah Party.
''We see that there is a state of confusion,'' said Zakaria al-Qaq, a national security expert at Al Quds University. ''This cabinet was still receiving congratulations. Now, I think, it is facing the harsh realities.''
''Image is very important,'' Mr. Qaq added, suggesting that the lack of political clarity or a cohesive Palestinian government could even give Mr. Kerry cause -- or a pretext -- to delay his peace efforts.
Mr. Kerry is expected in the region later this month for a fifth visit in his quest to revive peace talks. Differences within the Israeli government over the Palestinian question have been on stark display in recent days, adding to a sense that Mr. Kerry's mission is approaching a decision point. But any breakthrough between the Israeli and Palestinian sides has so far remained elusive, with each side blaming the other.
International confidence in the Palestinian Authority was already shaken when the previous prime minister, Salam Fayyad, an internationally respected economist, resigned in April. Mr. Fayyad remained in office as a caretaker while Mr. Abbas worked to find a replacement.
Mr. Hamdallah, a professor of linguistics who ran a large West Bank university, was sworn in on June 6. He had no previous experience in government. An official in the prime minister's press office said that Mr. Hamdallah had resigned because of a conflict over his authority and responsibilities.
Palestinians with knowledge of the situation said the resignation might have been prompted by power struggles between Mr. Hamdallah and the two deputy prime ministers that Mr. Abbas appointed at the same time: Mohammad Mustafa, the former chairman of the Palestine Investment Fund, who was given special responsibility for the economy; and Ziad Abu Amr, a legislator and former foreign minister, who was to focus on the political arena. Both men are seen as close to the president.
''The troika did not work in the Soviet Union,'' Mr. Qaq said, ''and it won't work in Palestine.''
Still, the resignation came as a surprise. One of Mr. Hamdallah's close friends said that he had spoken on the phone with the prime minister on Thursday morning and that he had ''sounded confident'' and did not mention any plans to give up his post.
Ghassan Khatib, vice president of Bir Zeit University in the West Bank and a former Palestinian government spokesman, said that Mr. Fayyad's resignation and his replacement had been accepted by the outside world. ''But to have this resignation so soon,'' he added, ''is very bad for stability, and consequently for the ability of the Palestinian Authority to continue getting the necessary financial and political support for the peace process in the international arena.''
The Palestinian Authority has been in a financial crisis for about two years; Mr. Fayyad had difficulty paying the tens of thousands of government employees their salaries on time.
''It was easier when Fayyad was there,'' said Michael Herzog, an Israel-based fellow of The Washington Institute for Near East Policy and a former military official and negotiator. Now, he said, some may be even more reluctant to provide assistance.
But for many Palestinians, Mr. Hamdallah's resignation offer was a symbol of a much deeper political malaise and exposed the inherent weakness and limitations of an authority that ultimately operates under Israeli occupation.
Increasingly, Palestinians in the West Bank seem to be dismissing their government as a sham. ''There is no system,'' said Basem Zubeidi, a political science professor at Bir Zeit University. ''Everyone knows that there are no ministers, no ministries and no government because they have no real mandate to do anything. There is no authority, there is no money, there is nothing.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rami Hamdallah 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIGNATIONS (91%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); AL FATAH (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD ABBAS (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (95%); ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2013



687 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1312 words

HEADLINE: Marijuana Crops in California Threaten Forests and Wildlife

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER

 BODY:
ARCATA, Calif. -- It took the death of a small, rare member of the weasel family to focus the attention of Northern California's marijuana growers on the impact that their huge and expanding activities were having on the environment.
The animal, a Pacific fisher, had been poisoned by an anticoagulant in rat poisons like d-Con. Since then, six other poisoned fishers have been found. Two endangered spotted owls tested positive. Mourad W. Gabriel, a scientist at the University of California, Davis, concluded that the contamination began when marijuana growers in deep forests spread d-Con to protect their plants from wood rats.
That news has helped growers acknowledge, reluctantly, what their antagonists in law enforcement have long maintained: like industrial logging before it, the booming business of marijuana is a threat to forests whose looming dark redwoods preside over vibrant ecosystems.
Hilltops have been leveled to make room for the crop. Bulldozers start landslides on erosion-prone mountainsides. Road and dam construction clogs some streams with dislodged soil. Others are bled dry by diversions. Little water is left for salmon whose populations have been decimated by logging. 
And local and state jurisdictions' ability to deal with the problem has been hobbled by, among other things, the drug's murky legal status. It is approved by the state for medical uses but still illegal under federal law, leading to a patchwork of growers. Some operate within state rules, while others operate totally outside the law.
The environmental damage may not be as extensive as that caused by the 19th-century diking of the Humboldt estuary here, or 20th-century clear-cut logging, but the romantic outlaw drug has become a destructive juggernaut, experts agree.
''In my career I've never seen anything like this,'' said Stormer Feiler, a scientist with California's North Coast Regional Water Quality Control Board. ''Since 2007 the amount of unregulated activities has exploded.'' He added, ''They are grading the mountaintops now, so it affects the whole watershed below.''
Scott Bauer, of the state Department of Fish and Wildlife, said, ''I went out on a site yesterday where there was an active water diversion providing water to 15 different groups of people or individuals,'' many of them growers. ''The stream is going to dry up this year.''
While it is hard to find data on such an industry, Anthony Silvaggio, a sociology lecturer at Humboldt State University, pointed to anecdotal evidence in a Google Earth virtual ''flyover'' he made of the industrial farm plots and the damage they cause. The video was later enhanced and distributed by Mother Jones magazine.
Brad Job's territory as a federal Bureau of Land Management officer includes public lands favored, he said, by Mexican drug cartels whose environmental practices are the most destructive. ''The watershed was already lying on the ground bleeding,'' Mr. Job said. ''The people who divert water in the summer are kicking it in the stomach.''
That water is crucial to restoring local runs of imperiled Coho salmon, Chinook salmon and steelhead, which swam up Eel River tributaries by the tens of thousands before the logging era. Scott Greacen, executive director of Friends of the Eel River, said, ''It's not weed that drove the Coho to the brink of extinction, but it may kick it over the edge.'' By various estimates, each plant needs at least one gallon and as much as six gallons of water during a season.
The idea that the counterculture's crop of choice is bad for the environment has gone down hard here. Marijuana is an economic staple, particularly in Humboldt County's rural southern end, called SoHum. Jennifer Budwig, the vice president of a local bank, estimated last year that marijuana infused more than $415 million into the county's annual economic activity, one-quarter of the total.
For the professed hippies who moved here decades ago, marijuana farming combines defiance of society's strictures, shared communal values and a steady income. ''Marijuana has had a framework that started in the 1930s with jazz musicians,'' said Gregg Gold, a psychology professor at Humboldt State University. ''It's a cultural icon of resistance to authority.''
''In 2013,'' he added, ''you're asking that we reframe it in people's minds as just another agribusiness. That's a huge shift.''
It is a thriving agribusiness. Derek Roy, a special agent enforcing endangered species protections for the National Marine Fisheries Service, said, ''These grow sites continue to get larger and larger.'' Things took off after 1996, when California decriminalized the use of medical marijuana, Mr. Roy said.
The older farmers say that as the fierce antidrug campaigns waned and the medical marijuana market developed, newcomers arrived eager to cash in, particularly in the past decade, according to two growers who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
''There is a gold rush,'' Mr. Greacen said. ''And it's a race to the bottom in terms of environmental impacts.''
Now that Colorado and Washington voters have approved the recreational use of the drug, there is a widespread belief that the days of high prices for marijuana are nearly over.
As Mikal Jakubal, a resident of SoHum who is directing a documentary film about Humboldt County's marijuana business, puts it, ''Everyone thinks, 'This might be the last good year.' '' That helps fuel the willy-nilly expansion of cultivation, the tearing up of hillsides and the diversions that dry out creeks.
The worst damage is on public lands. There, extensive plantings are surrounded by d-Con-laced tuna and sardine cans placed around perimeters by the dozens, Dr. Gabriel said. Mr. Job of the land management bureau said these illegal operations have 70,000 to 100,000 plants; they are believed to be the work of Mexican drug cartels.
But small farmers have an impact, too. Mr. Bauer of the State Fish and Wildlife Department said that when he found the water diversion last week and asked those responsible about it, ''these people we met with were pointing a finger all over the watershed, saying: 'We're not that big. There are bigger people out there.' ''
Federal environmental agents, including Mr. Roy and Mr. Job, have brought two cases to the United States attorney's office in San Francisco. The office declined to prosecute a case last year, they said. A new one is under review. But, they said, manpower for enforcement is limited.
Given federal prohibitions against profiting from marijuana, county officials have a limited toolbox. ''We have land-use authority, that's it,'' said Mark Lovelace, a Humboldt County supervisor. He chafes at the county's inability to establish a system of permits, for fear of running afoul of federal law. His board did just pass a resolution asking local businesses not to sell d-Con. (A representative of Reckitt Benckiser, which makes the poison, wrote a letter of protest.)
Mr. Lovelace and others contend that legalizing marijuana would open the door to regulation and put the brakes on environmental abuses.
In the meantime, the industry has begun to police itself. Some growers have benefited from a program run by a local nonprofit organization, Sanctuary Forest, that subsidizes the installation of tanks that can store water in the winter, when it is plentiful, for use in dry months.
''There may be people who grow pot in our group,'' said Tasha McKee, executive director of Sanctuary Forest. ''I'm sure there are. We don't ask that question.''
A local group, the Emerald Growers Association, recently produced a handbook on sustainable practices.
''There is an identity crisis going on right now,'' said Gary Graham Hughes, executive director of the Environmental Protection Information Center in Arcata. ''The people who are really involved with this industry are trying to understand what their responsibilities are.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Marijuana crops on private land in Humboldt County, Calif. Some medical marijuana growers follow state rules, but others do not.
 While some marijuana farms divert and dry up streams, this grower uses conservation methods like a rainwater holding pond. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CANNABIS (93%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); MAMMALS (90%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); POISONINGS (90%); WILDLIFE (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (89%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (77%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (77%); FACTORY FARMS (77%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (77%); ANIMALS (77%); SOCIOLOGY (76%); FISHES (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (74%); CARTELS (73%); LAND USE PLANNING (73%); RIVERS (72%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (72%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (72%); ANTICOAGULANTS (72%); EROSION (67%); CONSTRUCTION (67%); APPROVALS (65%); WATER QUALITY (60%); INFRASTRUCTURE (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2013



688 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 680 words

HEADLINE: Mercurial Mortgage Rates to Stabilize Soon, Analysts Say

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
It looks like the great American mortgage sale is finally coming to an end.
While rates on home loans are likely to remain modest by traditional standards, the ultralow borrowing costs that encouraged millions of homeowners to refinance and helped revive the moribund housing market are quickly becoming a memory. As yields on 10-year government bonds rise amid signs that the economy is improving and that the Federal Reserve will reduce bond purchases, mortgage rates have quickly followed.
Rates on 30-year fixed mortgages hit 4.25 percent on Thursday, up from 4.12 percent on Wednesday morning before the Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, signaled the central bank might begin easing back on stimulus efforts later this year. As recently as May, the average interest rate on a 30-year fixed mortgage stood at 3.5 percent, close to the lowest in decades. 
While mortgage rates are moving higher, rates on other forms of credit like car loans, home equity loans and credit cards are not expected to budge. They are either already set at relatively high levels, like most credit card borrowing costs, or tied to short-term interest rates, which the Fed has indicated will not rise before 2015. For example, the rate on a five-year car loan currently is just over 4 percent, about where it was in mid-May. Similarly, a fixed-rate home equity loan carries a rate of 6.1 percent, not far from where it was a month ago.
But the fact that the Fed is keeping the short-term bank lending rate it controls at close to zero also means that savers will not see any improvement in the paltry interest paid on savings accounts at banks, money market accounts and short-term certificates of deposit, which are also tied to short-term rates.
By contrast, long-term rates are rising because the central bank's current program of purchasing $85 billion a month in Treasury securities and mortgage bonds is expected to start tapering off later this year, if the economy continues to recover. Despite the sudden jump in long-term borrowing costs, some experts say it is unlikely that government bond rates will keep spiking from current levels, and could actually ease slightly.
''Mortgage rates tend to move a lot in a short amount of time, then do nothing for a longer period,'' said Greg McBride, senior financial analyst at Bankrate.com, a personal finance Web site. ''Rates will stabilize and potentially pull back as Bernanke's words fade and economic reality sets in.''
Nor should holders of adjustable-rate mortgages panic. ''Someone who already has one doesn't have to worry until the Fed starts raising short-term rates,'' Mr. McBride said.
Still, the recent move upward in mortgage rates signals the beginning of a longer-term trend of higher borrowing costs for home buyers, which had reached lows not seen in decades.
''Clearly, mortgage rates and bond yields will be higher in the long run than they are today,'' Mr. McBride said, adding that he expects borrowing costs on 30-year fixed mortgages to hover in the 4 to 4.5 percent range for the rest of the year. ''I don't think rates will go back below 4 percent,'' he said.
Even if mortgage rates do move higher than that, they will still be well below the levels that prevailed as recently as 2007, before the recession and the financial crisis. Between 2000 and 2007, rates averaged 6.5 percent on 30-year mortgage notes.
''I don't think this foreshadows a huge rise in rates but there will be more volatility in the fixed-income markets than we've seen recently,'' said Brian Rehling, chief fixed-income strategist at Wells Fargo Advisors.
Mr. Rehling predicts yields on 10-year Treasury bonds, the benchmark for pricing mortgages, to be at 2.25 percent at the end of this year, slightly below where they finished the day on Thursday, at 2.42 percent. Paul Edelstein, director of financial economics at IHS Global Insight, also expects yields to stabilize. ''I'm being cautious,'' he said. ''Rates are going to be higher than I thought last month but I'm not sure the rates we are seeing today will be sustained throughout the rest of the year.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Low home loan rates have helped breathe life into a languid housing market, but are now rising. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE RATES (94%); INTEREST RATES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BONDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (63%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2013



689 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 474 words

HEADLINE: Rent Board Approves Higher Increases Than in '12

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO and COLIN MOYNIHAN

 BODY:
The Rent Guidelines Board on Thursday approved maximum rent increases of 4 percent on one-year-leases, and 7.75 percent on leases of two years -- about double what the increases were last year -- on rent-stabilized apartments in New York City. 
The nine-member board voted 5 to 4, to loud jeers and boos from tenants in the audience of about 100 people, at a public meeting at the Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art. The increases affect renewal leases starting Oct. 1.
Jonathan L. Kimmel, the chairman of the board, alluded to higher water and sewer charges for property owners and a stagnant economy and high unemployment rates for tenants in putting forth the new increases. Last year, the board, which is appointed by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, approved maximum increases of 2 percent for a one-year lease and 4 percent for a two-year lease.
Tenant advocates had wanted a rent freeze, arguing that wages had not kept pace with rent increases over the last five years. As in the past, neither side came away happy.
''This jump is going to be so incredibly devastating for the elderly, the disabled and the poor,'' said Penelope Josephides, 62, a renter on the Upper East Side. She called the decision ''the kiss of death for those on fixed income.''
But one landlord from Bay Ridge in Brooklyn, Chris Athineos, said he was ''very disappointed in the board.''
''These small rent increases just don't cut it,'' said Mr. Athineos, whose family owns nine buildings with 150 apartments. He said that some of his apartments brought in rent far below market rates, and that the limits on his income made it hard to cover maintenance expenses and taxes.
The annual increases, which affect about one million rent-stabilized apartments, became campaign fodder in an election year. Three Democratic mayoral candidates attended the board's public hearing last week, and all three -- Speaker Christine C. Quinn of the City Council, Public Advocate Bill de Blasio and City Comptroller John C. Liu -- spoke in favor of imposing the rent freeze. Ms. Quinn argued that landlords had fared better than tenants in the recession.
Some of the candidates also criticized the board for holding only one public hearing on the proposed rent changes before making a decision. The board used to hold two hearings but cited poor attendance in opting for just one this year.
The board had proposed setting the rent increase within the range of 3.25 to 6.25 percent for a one-year lease and 5 to 9.5 percent for a two-year lease. Building owner groups said they needed higher increases this year to help cover higher operating costs, including utilities, real estate taxes, labor and insurance.
But Michael McKee, a longtime tenants' advocate, said the board was relying on data that overestimated landlord expenses.
''The whole thing is a sham, a charade,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (91%); RENT CONTROL (90%); APPROVALS (90%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); MAYORS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CITIES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); PROPERTY TAX (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); TAX LAW (67%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (66%); SENIOR CITIZENS (66%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2013



690 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 378 words

HEADLINE: HUD to Hold Competition to Help Sandy-Ravaged Communities

BYLINE: By KIA GREGORY

 BODY:
The United States Department of Housing and Urban Development announced on Thursday that it would hold a competition to attract talent and projects to help strengthen communities battered by Hurricane Sandy. 
The competition, Rebuild by Design, is part of the nearly $51 billion Sandy aid package approved by Congress in January after a long and contentious battle.
Officials said the competition should help guide government agencies at all levels as they develop plans to spend the federal money. They said they wanted localities to coordinate recovery efforts better and use some of the winning ideas from the competition.
''We want the brightest minds developing real solutions to the very serious challenges we face,'' the federal housing secretary, Shaun Donovan, said during a panel discussion at the Institute for Public Knowledge at New York University. ''We want proposals that will have an impact on the ground for people.''
The department is seeking expertise in infrastructure engineering, landscape design, urban design, architecture, land-use planning, industrial design and other specialized fields. Designers selected would focus on coastal communities in the New York region, as well as on high-density urban environments and ecological networks.
The Rockefeller Foundation is spending $3 million on the competition, which will be run in part by the National Endowment for the Arts.
The governors of New York, New Jersey and Connecticut have identified $82 billion in storm-related damages. Hurricane Sandy killed more than 100 people, destroyed thousands of homes and businesses, crippled mass transit, set off fuel shortages and paralyzed power grids.
''Sandy is a reminder of why we must rethink how we build moving forward,'' Mr. Donovan said. ''It's not enough for any region to rebuild their communities back to the way they were.''
The panel included academics and local officials from around the region.
''Although there is a lot city government can do, there's a lot city government can't control,'' said Seth W. Pinsky, president of the New York City Economic Development Corporation, who worked on the city's $20 billion plan to prepare for climate change. ''Without thinking regionally, we're not going to be able to solve the many problems we face.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING AUTHORITIES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); HURRICANE SANDY (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); PUBLIC HOUSING (78%); DISASTER RELIEF (77%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (76%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (73%); ENDOWMENTS (73%); FOUNDATIONS (72%); APPROVALS (72%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (67%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (64%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING & URBAN DEVELOPMENT (93%); NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (53%)

PERSON: SHAUN DONOVAN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2013



691 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; ON SOCCER; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 883 words

HEADLINE: Taking a Seat at Soccer's Table, but Cautiously

BYLINE: By SAM BORDEN

 BODY:
SALT LAKE CITY -- Two months ago, in a ballroom at the Westin Playa Bonita in Panama City, Sunil Gulati became one of the 25 most powerful people in world soccer. So as he sat in a hotel restaurant here Tuesday morning, why was it hard to know whether to offer congratulations or condolences?
Gulati, the president of the United States Soccer Federation, was elected to the 25-member executive committee of FIFA, soccer's governing body, in an 18-17 vote by members of Concacaf, the regional organization consisting of countries from North America, Central America and the Caribbean. 
On the surface, this is positive: the United States now has a seat at the table, as Gulati said, in the group that makes most of the important decisions in global soccer, including selecting the dates and sites for major tournaments. That presence is no small development for a country that has problems related to its own professional league. Major League Soccer does not have a promotion-and-relegation system, unlike most of the rest of the world, and it does not play its season in the traditional international window; having FIFA's approval for these idiosyncrasies, Gulati noted, is important.
So from that perspective, Gulati's election is encouraging. But it also feels a bit as if a child has put on a crisp white suit just before going out to play beside a giant mud puddle.
Global soccer is, at present, a quagmire of corruption. Bribery, blackmail and cronyism are rampant, and in recent years as many as 10 members of the executive committee have been linked to venalities of varying degrees.
Sometimes, even the heroes are villains; Gulati won a seat only after one was vacated by Chuck Blazer, an American who was once hailed as a whistle-blower for helping expose the corruption of two other committee members but is now ''provisionally banned'' by FIFA after being accused of fraud.
This is the unsavory world into which Gulati, who is also an economics lecturer at Columbia, is willingly diving. He knows the stakes and knows the standards (such as they are), and he is making a conscious choice to try to effect change by stepping into the morass instead of protesting from the outside.
Some would prefer he do otherwise. For those who have tracked soccer's sleazy side -- accusations abound of World Cup bids being bought and favors being exchanged -- Gulati's approach can be maddening, akin to the politician telling his angry constituents that these things take time.
''I think you need a healthy dose of idealism and pragmatism,'' he said. ''I think it's both. The balance between those two is probably ever-changing.''
He added: ''The idealism part is we're going to play by these rules, and we let everyone know that we're going to play by these rules. The pragmatism part is how we handle the things we want to change.''
There are fair questions to be asked about Gulati's association with Blazer -- ''Looking back, should more questions have been raised? Yes,'' he said -- but Gulati maintains his hands are clean. He has seen and heard about inappropriate requests made by organizing committees looking to garner votes for their World Cup bids, and he is steadfast that the group he led to land the 2022 World Cup was beyond reproach.
''We had President Clinton and some of the top corporate leaders involved,'' he said. ''We didn't face any requests that caused us to pause and certainly no requests that we met that were inappropriate.''
Left unsaid was the reality that not getting dirty might have been part of the reason the United States bid was trounced by the bid from Qatar, the tiny Middle Eastern nation, in a final round of voting that has since been scrutinized for possibly being tainted.
After that defeat, Gulati could have been disenfranchised. Instead, he opted to be motivated. When it became apparent an executive committee seat would open, he campaigned for the job, telling representatives from the other Concacaf nations that he could make no concrete assurances other than that he would seek to be transparent and honest. When the representative from Anguilla, casting the final vote, said ''Sunil'' in that ballroom in Panama, his vision was launched.
''The first and most significant point of my campaign platform was that I'm not making any promises,'' he said. ''What will happen if you do it that way? One of two things: either you can cause some change or you will get changed. Hopefully, it's the former.''
It is a noble notion, even as Gulati struggles with how to make it all work. He wants openness, but hesitates to say whether he believes the Qatar World Cup should be shifted to winter from its traditional summer dates. He wants transparency, but still says he is not certain he can reveal how much he will be paid to be on the committee.
''I'm working on that,'' he said.
It is a work in progress, but in a few weeks it will be exactly 25 years since the United States was awarded the 1994 World Cup, a moment that many, including Gulati, believe was the beginning of the country's presence on the global soccer stage. At the time, it was enough for the United States to simply be present.
Now, Gulati wants more. He wants change. He wants progress. He wants growth. He has put on his white suit and, for that, he deserves congratulations. Or condolences. Maybe both.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sunil Gulati, the president of the United States Soccer Federation, has pledged transparency on FIFA's executive committee. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DON EMMERT/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCCER (95%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); CORRUPTION (86%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (77%); SPORTS AWARDS (77%); RESTAURANTS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (69%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (69%); BRIBERY (69%); TOURNAMENTS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERATION INTERNATIONALE DE FOOTBALL ASSOCIATION (91%); UNITED STATES SOCCER FEDERATION (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2013



692 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1265 words

HEADLINE: Group Keeps Watch on Iran and Possible Sanction Violations

BYLINE: By RICK GLADSTONE

 BODY:
Inside a nondescript Midtown Manhattan office, a couple of computer analysts spend their days peering intently at large screens of satellite mapping surveillance data, watching dozens of little blips moving like snails. Each one, they said, represents a ship controlled by Iran or its trading partners.
They said they were looking for suspicious behavior.
The analysts work for United Against Nuclear Iran, a privately financed advocacy group founded by former American diplomats that has become an annoying thorn to Iran, which regards it as a vigilante extension of a hostile American foreign policy. The group's latest effort is its maritime monitoring system, which it says provides a new level of scrutiny of compliance with the sanctions imposed on Iran by the West because of Iran's disputed nuclear energy program.
Although the economic and trade sanctions, including a European oil embargo, have deeply hurt Iran, the country has been somewhat successful in finding ways to evade them, the group says. A litany of clever tactics for cloaking commerce on the high seas has included reflagging, renaming or clandestinely acquiring ships, engaging in secretive ship-to-ship transfers to mask the origins of oil or other contraband, temporarily disabling onboard satellite transponders to hide their true locations or simply transmitting false destinations. 
''Iran thrives on deception and disguise,'' said Mark D. Wallace, the chief executive of United Against Nuclear Iran, who would like to see a maritime blockade of the country.
Mr. Wallace said the Iran presidential election on Friday, in which a cleric and former nuclear negotiator, Hassan Rowhani, was elected on a campaign promoting better relations with the outside world, had done nothing to alter his group's view. ''The regime has shown that it plans more of the same,'' he said in a statement on the group's Web site. ''The world's response should therefore remain the same -- the continued isolation of Iran, and comprehensive sanctions.''
Short of a blockade, he said in an interview, the maritime monitoring system, which has been in operation for about five months, has at least given Iran a new reason to worry.
''It's a technology-based advocacy tool,'' he said. ''This technology and our monitoring allows us to expose sanctions-avoidance schemes.''
Martin House, the monitoring system's director and lead analyst, said it used publicly available satellite transmissions from ship transponders, including data on speed, identity, direction and destination, and correlated the information with other navigational data and computer algorithms. He said the system created vessel behavior profiles that could identify questionable activities even if the transponders were temporarily turned off.
Several times, Mr. Wallace and his aides said, the system had exposed possible sanctions violations that the group had then publicized, forcing the Iranians or their partners to change plans.
In April, for example, an Iranian tanker named Daisy, flying under a Tanzanian flag, had to abandon a planned voyage to Malta, which has pledged compliance with the sanctions. Warned by Mr. Wallace's group that Daisy was a blacklisted vessel, the Maltese government informed the ship that it was not welcome, he said.
In another recent episode, the monitoring system showed that three vessels operated by Medallion Reederei GmbH, a German shipping company, had visited Iranian ports operated by Tidewater Middle East Company, a sanctioned Iranian port management company. After Mr. Wallace wrote to the German shipper expressing concern, its managing director, Falk Holtmann, responded in a letter assuring him he was looking into the port calls and would ''not tolerate any breach of international sanctions.''
Other instances of what the group considered suspicious behavior discovered by its monitoring system have included mysterious linkups in the Red Sea between the Iranian bulk-carrier vessel Parisan and other vessels from Iran, Egypt and Turkey; and a curious anchoring of three old tankers near Singapore, nominally owned by a Greek shipper, that Iran may be using to store and transfer embargoed oil. The Greek shipper, Dimitris Cambis, was recently blacklisted by the Treasury Department for helping Iran evade sanctions.
''We're not the only people in the world with this information,'' said Nathan Carleton, a spokesman for United Against Nuclear Iran. ''The Treasury and State Departments are following this, too. But there wasn't anyone analyzing this in total. We really feel like watch people.''
Some maritime experts said the group's monitoring system could also misidentify innocent activity as suspicious behavior. The transponders that commercial ships are required to use to signal their location, for example, can sometimes appear to be switched off in areas where reception is poor, which is sometimes the case in the Red Sea. A crew can forget to update a ship's transmission data on destinations or cargo when plans change, but that does not necessarily signal a deliberate deception.
Richard Hurley, a senior data analyst in London for IHS Fairplay, a global information company that tracks shipping, said it would be unusual for large tankers, including Iran's, to disable their transponders deliberately, unless they were anchored near their home ports. The main purpose of the transponders, he said, is to help ships minimize the possibility of collision at sea.
''If you're running a big tanker, obviously safety is paramount; you really don't want an accident,'' he said. ''We think we know where most of Iran's fleet is most of the time.''
United Against Nuclear Iran's monitoring system, called Minerva (an acronym for Marine Intelligence Network and Rogue Vessel Analysis) is one of many tools used by the group in an increasingly aggressive campaign to harass and frustrate Iran.
The group, formed in 2008 by Mr. Wallace and other prominent American diplomats including Ambassador Richard C. Holbrooke, who died in 2010, has claimed success for persuading dozens of multinational corporations to stop doing business with Iran. It was also among the first to pressure a global banking communications consortium known as Swift to expel sanctioned Iranian financial institutions last year.
For Iran, which says its nuclear program is peaceful and considers the sanctions illegal, the group is just another extension of what it sees as hostile and arrogant American government behavior, contradicting President Obama's pledge when he took office in 2009 to improve relations.
Registered as a nonprofit tax-exempt advocacy organization, the group relies on private donations and fund-raising to operate, according to its Web site. The group's officials declined to identify the donors but said its annual budget was about $1.5 million.
''The establishment of this group was among a series of actions, which indeed cast a shadow over the policy of engagement announced at that time,'' Alireza Miryousefi, a spokesman for Iran's United Nations mission, said in response to a request for comment about the group's activities.
Obama administration officials declined to say whether the group's maritime surveillance had assisted the administration's efforts to punish Iran sanctions evaders, which have intensified in recent weeks. ''We take information from a lot of different sources,'' said one administration official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because of the delicacy of the subject. ''Sometimes it's useful, sometimes less so, but we're not sorry to have it. I don't look at it necessarily as a nuisance.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); TRADE DISPUTES (74%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (71%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (71%); INTERVIEWS (70%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); EXECUTIVES (65%); ELECTIONS (64%)

PERSON: HASSAN ROUHANI (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2013



693 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 5565 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
Theater
Approximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of current productions, additional listings, showtimes and ticket information are at nytimes.com/theater. A searchable, critical guide to theater is at nytimes.com/events.
Previews and Openings
'Alligator Summer' (in previews; opens on Friday) Leaping lizards! Subtitled ''A Southern Gothic Atrocity in Three Acts,'' this postmodern farce by Dylan Lamb holes up two families in the sweltering attic of a small-town Louisiana home under siege by marauding reptiles. Presented by the young company Squeaky Bicycle Productions, the memory play set in 1944 is an absurdist attempt to examine the way we confront our primal fears and emotional barriers. Abingdon Theater Arts Complex, 312 West 36th Street, Manhattan, (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com. (David Rooney) 
'Choir Boy' (in previews; opens on July 2) The first new work by Tarell Alvin McCraney to be presented in New York since his breakthrough trilogy ''The Brother/Sister Plays,'' this reflection on the repression of gay sexuality via religion had a well-received premiere last fall at the Royal Court Theater in London. Set in an all-black prep school where a student struggles for acceptance in the gospel choir, the play was commissioned by Manhattan Theater Club. Trip Cullman directs a cast that includes Chuck Cooper and Austin Pendleton. City Center Stage II, 131 West 55th Street, Manhattan, (212) 581-1212, nycitycenter.org. (Rooney)
'The Designated Mourner' (previews start on Friday; opens on July 21) In a joint venture to celebrate the 40-year theatrical collaboration between the writer and performer Wallace Shawn and his frequent director, André Gregory, the Public Theater and Theater for a New Audience are presenting a two-part salute. First up is Mr. Shawn's 1996 play, a series of interlocking monologues in which three artist-intellectuals reflect on the hard-right turn taken by their unnamed, once-liberal country. Mr. Gregory reunites the cast of his celebrated 2000 New York production, Mr. Shawn, Deborah Eisenberg and Larry Pine, for the occasion. The celebration will continue in October with the American premiere of Mr. Shawn's latest play, ''Grasses of a Thousand Colors.'' Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, publictheater.org. (Rooney)
'Nobody Loves You' (in previews; opens on July 18) The manufactured romantic drama of a TV dating show collides with the authentic emotional connection of a real relationship, creating complications for a philosophy grad student in this new musical with book and lyrics by the playwright Itamar Moses, and music and lyrics by Gaby Alter. Michelle Tattenbaum directs this Second Stage production, with an eight-member ensemble that includes Leslie Kritzer, Lauren Molina and Rory O'Malley. Choreography is by Mandy Moore, an Emmy winner for her work on ''So You Think You Can Dance.'' Second Stage Theater, 305 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 246-4422, 2st.com. (Rooney)
'Rantoul and Die' (in previews; opens on Monday) The Amoralists, the dependably debauched theater company, hunker down for a two-play summer in New York. A new play by the company's co-founder Derek Ahonen will come in July, but first they will present this biting romantic comedy by Mark Roberts, better known as the creator of the CBS sitcom ''Mike and Molly.'' Cherry Lane Theater, 38 Commerce Street, West Village, (866) 811-4111, amoralists.com. (Eric Grode)
'The Unavoidable Disappearance of Tom Durnin' (in previews; opens on Thursday) David Morse, who has played everything including angels (''St. Elsewhere'') and devils (''How I Learned to Drive''), looks to split the difference in this new play by Steven Levenson (''The Language of Trees''). Here he stars as the title character, a white-collar criminal looking to reconnect with his family after his release from jail. But what if the family is managing just fine without him? Laura Pels Theater, Harold and Miriam Steinberg Center for Theater, 111 West 46th Street, Manhattan, (212) 719-1300, roundaboutunderground.org. (Grode)
Broadway
'Ann' Holland Taylor wrote and stars in this solo show about Ann Richards, the straight-shooting onetime governor of Texas. Ms. Taylor's engaging performance goes beyond impersonation, though the script is neither a dramatically shapely piece of writing nor a deeply probing character study (1:55). Vivian Beaumont Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 239-6200, lct.org. (Charles Isherwood)
'Annie' James Lapine's revival of the singing comic strip from 1977 is merely serviceable. But its smiley-faced mixture of hope and corn scratches an itch in a city recovering from a recession and a hurricane. Theatergoers may occasionally feel the urge both to mist up and throw up, but Lilla Crawford is a nigh irresistible Orphan Annie. With Anthony Warlow and Jane Lynch as Miss Hannigan (2:25). Palace Theater, 1564 Broadway, at 47th Street, (877) 250-2929, ticketmaster.com. (Ben Brantley)
&#x2605; 'The Assembled Parties' Richard Greenberg's play about the decline of an affluent family is a throwback to a time when Charm -- with a capital C -- was a cardinal virtue in theater. It is also smart, sad and so impossibly well-spoken you may feel like giving up on conversation. Lynne Meadow directs a fine cast led by a singularly Charming Jessica Hecht (2:35). Samuel J. Friedman Theater, 261 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
&#x2605; 'I'll Eat You Last: A Chat With Sue Mengers' Bette Midler gives the most lusciously entertaining performance of the Broadway season in John Logan's soufflé of a solo show in which she depicts the Hollywood agent Sue Mengers, dishing great piles of dirt as she awaits word from her great friend -- and ex-client -- Barbra Streisand (1:30). Booth Theater, 222 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)
&#x2605; 'Kinky Boots' Cyndi Lauper has created a love-and-heat-seeking score that performs like a pop star on Ecstasy. This Harvey Fierstein-scripted tale of lost souls in shoe business, in which a young factory owner (Stark Sands) teams up with a drag queen (Billy Porter), sometimes turns into a sermon. But it's hard to resist the audience-hugging charisma of the songs in this Tony winner for best new musical (2:20). Al Hirschfeld Theater, 302 West 45th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Lucky Guy' Nora Ephron's elegy and valentine to the rough-and-tumble of big-city newsrooms and scoop-hungry reporters, starring Tom Hanks as the columnist Michael McAlary, is written with a true fan's avidity. Directed with bells and whistles by George C. Wolfe, this is less a fully developed play than a boisterous swapping of fond anecdotes about the end of a life and the end of an era (2:00). Broadhurst Theater, 235 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Macbeth' Alan Cumming portrays the Scottish general who would be king, and all the other significant roles, in this one-man race through Shakespeare's tragedy, set in a mental institution. Mr. Cumming's virtuosity and the gothic inventions of the directors, John Tiffany and Andrew Goldberg, impress, but while the actor effectively differentiates the roles, he never fully inhabits any of them (1:40). Ethel Barrymore Theater, 243 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)
&#x2605; 'Matilda the Musical' The most satisfying and subversive musical ever to come out of Britain. Directed by Matthew Warchus, with a book by Dennis Kelly and addictive songs by Tim Minchin, this adaptation of Roald Dahl's novel is an exhilarating tale of empowerment, told from the perspective of that most powerless group, little children. Bertie Carvel is priceless as their schoolmistress nemesis (2:35). Shubert Theater, 225 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Motown: The Musical' A dramatically slapdash but musically vibrant joy ride through the glory days of the Detroit music label founded by Berry Gordy. Mr. Gordy's book is sketchy and obvious -- you want to plug your ears whenever the music stops. But the music is, of course, some of the greatest R&B ever recorded, and the performers mostly electric (2:40). Lunt-Fontanne Theater, 205 West 46th Street, (877) 250-2929, ticketmaster.com. (Isherwood)
'The Nance' Playing a gay burlesque performer whose onstage specialty is mincing effeminacy, Nathan Lane combines shiny expertise and dark conviction to sometimes devastating effect, in this strained if heartfelt play by Douglas Carter Beane. Not even Mr. Lane, though, can reconcile all the disparities the script asks him to weave together. Jack O'Brien is the estimable director (2:25). Lyceum Theater, 149 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Pippin' Diane Paulus sends in the acrobats for her exhaustingly energetic (and now Tony-winning) revival of Stephen Schwartz and Roger O. Hirson's 1972 musical. As for the 99-pound story at the center of this muscle-bound spectacle -- the one about the starry-eyed son of Charlemagne (Matthew James Thomas) -- that's there too, if you look hard. With Patina Miller and a delightful Andrea Martin (2:35). Music Box Theater, 239 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Rodgers & Hammerstein's Cinderella' This ultimate and most enduring of makeover stories, via the team who gave us ''Oklahoma!,'' has been restyled by the director Mark Brokaw and the writer Douglas Carter Beane into a glittery patchwork of snark and sincerity, with a whole lot of fancy ball gowns. Laura Osnes and Santino Fontana are the appealing leading lovers (2:20). Broadway Theater, 1681 Broadway, at 53rd Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'The Trip to Bountiful' Michael Wilson's slow-handed staging of Horton Foote's 1953 drama about an old woman's journey into the past is most notable for its remarkable star, Cicely Tyson, who seems thoroughly rejuvenated by her return to Broadway. The attractive supporting cast includes Cuba Gooding Jr., Vanessa Williams, and in a lovely, low-key performance, Condola Rashad (2:10). Stephen Sondheim Theater, 124 West 43rd Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Vanya and Sonia and Masha and Spike' Portraying a woman mired in what appears to be a permanent midlife crisis, the marvelous comic actor Kristine Nielsen provides much of the laughing gas in Christopher Durang's uneven but intermittently delightful riff on Chekhovian themes. David Hyde Pierce and Sigourney Weaver also star in this Tony-winning play directed by Nicholas Martin (2:30). John Golden Theater, 252 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)
Off Broadway
'Around the World in 80 Days' This stage version of the Jules Verne novel is an odd combination of steampunk and vaudeville. The actors' shameless mugging grows annoying after a while, but the pace stays brisk and the energy level high (1:30). New Theater at 45th Street, 354 West 45th Street, Manhattan, (866) 811-4111, aroundtheworldinnyc.com. (Neil Genzlinger)
'The Boat Factory' This two-man show by the Northern Irish actor Dan Gordon (who stars, with Michael Condron) vividly evokes the heyday of Harland & Wolff shipyard, the 300-acre Belfast expanse that among other things was the birthplace of the Titanic. The play's celebration of blue-collar craftsmanship, pride and dedication underscores values that seem lost in our digital age (2:00). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, Manhattan, (212) 279-4200, 59e59.org. (Andy Webster)
&#x2605; 'Buyer & Cellar' Jonathan Tolins has concocted an irresistible one-man play from the most peculiar of fictitious premises -- an underemployed Los Angeles actor goes to work in Barbra Streisand's Malibu basement -- allowing the playwright to ruminate with delicious wit and perspicacity on the solitude of celebrity, the love-hate attraction between gay men and divas, and the melancholy that lurks beneath narcissism. In the capable hands of the director Stephen Brackett and the wickedly charming actor Michael Urie, this seriously funny slice of absurdist whimsy creates the illusion of a stage filled with multiple people, all of them with their own droll point of view (1:30). Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, at Seventh Avenue South, West Village, (212) 868-8444, smarttix.com. (Rooney)
'Charles Ives Take Me Home' The pioneering American composer of the title, portrayed by the fine Henry Stram, plays (imaginary) referee in Jessica Dickey's play about the tense conflicts between a music-loving father and his basketball-obsessed daughter (1:20). Rattlestick Playwrights Theater, 224 Waverly Place, Greenwich Village, (866) 811-4111, rattlestick.org. (Isherwood)
&#x2605; 'The Comedy of Errors' The director Daniel Sullivan is once again in top form in this buoyant and brisk (90 minutes!) production of one of Shakespeare's lower and lesser comedies. Updated to upstate New York in the 1940s, this stylish production features the terrific team of Jesse Ferguson, as the Dromios, and Hamish Linklater, as the Antipholuses (1:30). Delacorte Theater, Central Park, enter the park at 81st Street and Central Park West, (212) 539-8750, shakespeareinthepark.org. (Isherwood)
&#x2605; 'Cornelius' This engrossing revival of J.B. Priestley's seldom-seen drama, which was first produced in 1935, is both a warm, entertainingly old-fashioned play and a cool, prescient portrait of an economic system spinning off its axis. Alan Cox is superb in the title role of a divided soul struggling to keep a small business afloat. Sam Yates directs this timely import from the Finborough Theater in London (2:15). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, Manhattan, (212) 279-4200, 59e59.org. (Brantley)
'Cougar the Musical' Three older women find themselves attracted to younger men, two against their better judgment. The concept seems made for bus tours, but imagination, appealing numbers with original melodies and theme-transcending jokes lift this show well above the level of ''Menopause: The Musical'' and its ilk (1:30). St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Anita Gates)
'Cuff Me: The Fifty Shades of Grey Musical Parody' What can I possibly say that isn't said by the title of this production? Here's one thing: It's not exactly great theater, but I'd still rather see ''Cuff Me'' than read the novel upon which it's based (1:30). Actors Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Claudia La Rocco)
Ensemble Studio Theater 2013 Marathon (Series C) The final work on this five-play bill, Jon Kern's ''Hate the Loser Inside,'' is as funny a 20 minutes as you're likely to experience in a theater. The other high point is the opener, ''Existence,'' by the veteran playwright Murray Schisgal (1:30). Ensemble Studio Theater, 549 West 52nd Street, Clinton, (866) 811-4111, ensemblestudiotheatre.org. (Genzlinger)
'Far From Heaven' Hinting at shimmering vistas beyond picket-fence conformity, Kelli O'Hara's soprano provides the poetry in this generally prosy adaptation of Todd Haynes's 2002 film about a beleaguered housewife in Eisenhower-era Hartford. Though Scott Frankel and Michael Korie have written some alluring songs, the show often seems to confine its wonderful star, and her character, to two dimensions (2:15). Playwrights Horizons, 416 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200, ticketcentral.com. (Brantley)
&#x2605; 'Fried Chicken and Latkes' Rain Pryor, the daughter of the comedian Richard Pryor (who died in 2005), stars in this effervescent solo show, which recounts her upbringing in a biracial household (her mother is Jewish) in Beverly Hills, Calif. Ms. Pryor, who sings and portrays a range of characters (including, poignantly, her father in a spot-on impression) is an ebullient performer with a robust singing voice. She lives in Baltimore now, but her outsize personality is built for Broadway (1:30). Actor's Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Webster)
'The Henrietta' This smart revival of an 1887 comedy sets a stock market maven against his scoundrel of a son (2:30). Metropolitan Playhouse, 220 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 995-5302, metropolitanplayhouse.org. (Ken Jaworowski)
&#x2605; 'Here Lies Love' An invigorating poperetta, conceived by David Byrne, that sets a new standard for audience participation. Or do I mean coercion? In this heady show about the heady life of Imelda Marcos, staged with infinite inventiveness by Alex Timbers, all the world's a dance floor, and all the men and women (including the audience) merely disco rats (1:30). Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, publictheater.org. (Brantley)
'A Kid Like Jake' Daniel Pearle's smart, fluent drama explores the emotional complications that arise for a young couple (the excellent Carla Gugino and Peter Grosz) during the arduous process of obtaining a place for their 4-year-old son at one of Manhattan's exclusive private schools. Jake favors ''gender-variant play,'' such as dressing like Cinderella (1:40). Claire Tow Theater, 150 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (800) 432-7250, telecharge.com, lct.org. (Isherwood)
'Love in the Time of Cholera' Directed by José Zayas and performed by an efficient four-actor crew, Caridad Svich's adaptation of the Gabriel García Márquez novel is pleasing but lightweight. A production cannot live on romance alone. In Spanish with subtitles (2:00). Gramercy Arts Theater, 138 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 889-2850, repertorio.org. (La Rocco)
&#x2605; 'Murder Ballad' A small but savvy musical that panders in style to those of us who lap up febrile accounts of fatal attractions. Julia Jordan and Juliana Nash's contemporary tale of a razor-edged love triangle knows exactly what it wants to do, and does it most efficiently, with a four-member cast, directed by Trip Cullman. Staged last fall at Manhattan Theater Club's Studio at Stage II, the show returns with most of its original cast (John Ellison Conlee, Will Swenson and Rebecca Naomi Jones) and an addition: Caissie Levy, who has replaced Karen Olivo. Union Square Theater, 100 East 17th Street, (800) 982-2787, ticketmaster.com. (Brantley)
'My Name Is Asher Lev' Aaron Posner's adaptation of Chaim Potok's novel feels like a well-made play from the era in which the story takes place -- the 1950s. Set in a Hasidic community in Brooklyn, this tale of an artistic prodigy has been directed with an attention to emotional nuance by Gordon Edelstein and features strong performances from its three-person cast: Ari Brand, Mark Nelson and Jenny Bacon (1:30). Westside Theater/Upstairs, 407 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Rachel Saltz)
&#x2605; 'Natasha, Pierre and the Great Comet of 1812' Dave Malloy's transporting pop opera dramatizes an emotionally potent slice of Tolstoy's ''War and Peace.'' Rachel Chavkin directs a superb young cast who bring the loves and losses of 19th-century Russian aristocrats to vibrant, intimate life in a stylish cabaret setting expressly built for the production (2:30). Kazino, West 13th Street, at Washington Street, West Village, (877) 704-2821, thegreatcometof1812.com. (Isherwood)
&#x2605; 'Peter and the Starcatcher' The most exhilarating and inventive example of story theater since the Royal Shakespeare Company's ''Life and Adventures of Nicholas Nickleby.'' This production, about the boy who became Peter Pan, is an enchanted anatomy of the urge to defy gravity. Roger Rees and Alex Timbers direct (2:10). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
&#x2605; 'Potted Potter' With no new Harry Potter adventures to pore over, what's a Muggle in need of a fix to do? One answer: this gloriously goofy parody by Daniel Clarkson and Jefferson Turner, which compresses a retelling of the seven books into 70 minutes, complete with a game of Quidditch. Clearly the two comics attended Professor Flitwick's charms class, because they cast the perfect spell over the audience: reductio ad absurdum (1:10). Little Shubert Theater, 422 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Daniel M. Gold)
&#x2605; 'Reasons to Be Happy' Neil LaBute wrote and directed this winning romantic comedy (yes, Neil LaBute), a sequel to his ''reasons to pretty.'' As embodied by Leslie Bibb, Josh Hamilton, Jenna Fischer and Fred Weller, Mr. LaBute's characters remain articulately inarticulate and enlighteningly in the dark, reminding us that though friends and lovers may stop speaking, those relationships never really end (2:15). Lucille Lortel Theater, 121 Christopher Street, West Village, (212) 352-3101, mcctheater.org. (Brantley)
'Roadkill' Cora Bissett's unsettling site-specific theater piece takes its audience on a bus ride into the brutal and shameful world of sexual trafficking. Starring a convincing Mercy Ojelade as a 14-year-old girl forced into prostitution, this consciousness-raising production cannily elicits in its audience the sense of helplessness that is part of being a passive spectator (1:30). Departs from St. Ann's Warehouse, 29 Jay Street, at Plymouth Street, Dumbo, Brooklyn, (718) 254-8779, stannswarehouse.org. (Brantley)
&#x2605; 'Sontag: Reborn' Moe Angelos portrays the celebrated writer in search of herself in Ms. Angelos's own adaptation of Sontag's journals and notebooks. The stylish multimedia production, directed by Marianne Weems, provides a moving X-ray of the writer's psyche as she moves through the crucible of youth (1:15). New York Theater Workshop, 79 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 460-5475, nytw.org. (Isherwood)
'Tea For Three: Lady Bird, Pat & Betty' In this subtle one-woman show, Elaine Bromka portrays Lady Bird Johnson, Pat Nixon and Betty Ford as each nears the end of her time at the White House (1:15). Urban Stages Theater, 259 West 30th Street, Chelsea, (212) 868-4444, teaforthree.com (Jaworowski)
'21' A recent college graduate with a head full of new ideas clashes with his easygoing family in this play produced by Repertorio Español (1:45). Gramercy Arts Theater, 138 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 225 9999, repertorio.org. (Jaworowski)
'Venice' Eric Rosen and Matt Sax's action-flooded musical, about a once-and-future civil war, borrows some of its plot from Shakespeare's ''Othello'' and much of its tone from apocalyptic movie blockbusters. Yet it still seems to translate into the two-dimensional panels of a comic book as you watch it. The elastic-featured Mr. Sax plays the show's rapping narrator (2:30). Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, publictheater.org. (Brantley)
&#x2605; 'The Weir' This first-rate revival of Conor McPherson's play gathers a group of friends as they tell ghost stories to drive away a loneliness than can be even more frightening (1:30). Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 727-2737, irishrep.org. (Jaworowski)
Off Off Broadway
&#x2605; 'Patti Issues' In his funny, tender coming-of-age monologue, Ben Rimalower traces the obsessive Patti LuPone fandom that provided him with an empowering role model. That inspiration proved perhaps most useful to Mr. Rimalower in processing the fallout after his father kicked down the closet door and bailed on the family. While on one hand, this is the story of many young gay men's propensity for diva worship, the tartly observed show goes several steps further by exploring the wide-eyed experiences that result when the acolyte gets to interact with his idol (1:00). Duplex Cabaret Theater, 61 Christopher Street, at Seventh Avenue, Greenwich Village, pattiissues.brownpapertickets.com. (Rooney)
'The Seagull' The New York Classical Theater's free outdoor production of Chekhov's classic does a fine job of telling the story of its late-19th-century lovers, losers and dreamers at a Russian country estate. The translation can be simplistic at times, but the great lines are there and the settings (the audience moves en masse several times) couldn't be more beautiful (1:40). Through Sunday in Central Park, enter at 103rd Street and Central Park West, and then Tuesday through June 30 in Prospect Park, Brooklyn, enter at Parkside and Ocean Avenues, and walk to the rustic shelter by the lake, (212) 252-4531, newyorkclassical.org. (Gates)
'Showgirls! The Musical!' If ever a movie were ripe for a sendup, it's Paul Verhoeven's 1995 turkey, ''Showgirls.'' The lurid story of a hitchhiker turned pole dancer turned Las Vegas star is catnip for any devotee of camp, and this frenetic production pushes it into the camp stratosphere, with X-rated songs, abundant toplessness and a much higher male quotient. Alas, the movie's misogyny lingers. The tireless and fearless April Kidwell, however, in the Elizabeth Berkley role, is a wonder: Her vibrant physicality and knowing humor inadvertently constitute a welcome riposte to the story's mockery of its protagonist (1:30). (Wednesdays and Saturdays only.) XL Nightclub, 512 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-2999, showgirlsthemusical.com. (Webster)
&#x2605; 'Then She Fell' Inspired by Lewis Carroll's ''Alice'' books, this transporting immersive theater work occupies a dreamscape where the judgments and classifications of the waking mind are suspended. A guided tour of Wonderland, created by Third Rail Projects, leads its participants through a series of rooms and an interactive evening of dance, poetry, food and drink (2:00). Return engagement starts on Saturday. The Kingsland Ward at St. John's, 195 Maujer Street, near Humboldt Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 374-5196, thenshefell.com. (Brantley)
'Totally Tubular Time Machine' This show is less a play or musical than a big, campy, drinking party, with a little bit of singing thrown in. Held at an '80s-theme dance club in Midtown, it features celebrity impersonators who wander through the crowd handing out party favors (lollipops from Katy Perry, trucker hats from Justin Bieber) and taking turns at karaoke. The impersonations come with varying degrees of similitude and singing talent (2:00). Saturdays only. Culture Club, 20 West 39th Street, (212) 921-1999, totallytubularnyc.com. (Catherine Rampell)
Long-Running Shows
'Avenue Q' R-rated puppets give lively life lessons (2:15). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'The Berenstain Bears Live! In Family Matters, the Musical' This adaptation of three of Stan and Jan Berenstain's children's books is pleasant enough, but the cubs are showing their age. Saturday and Sunday only (:55). Marjorie S. Deane Little Theater, 5 West 63rd Street, (866) 811-4111, berenstainbearslive.com.
'Black Angels Over Tuskegee' The tear-jerker story of these trailblazing African-American pilots (2:30). Actors Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
Blue Man Group Conceptual art as entertainment (1:45). Astor Place Theater, 434 Lafayette Street, East Village, (800) 258-3626, ticketmaster.com.
'The Book of Mormon' Singing, dancing, R-rated missionaries proselytize for the American musical (2:15). Eugene O'Neill Theater, 230 West 49th Street, (800) 432-7250, telecharge.com.
'Chicago' Jazz Age sex, murder and razzle-dazzle (2:25). Ambassador Theater, 219 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'The Fantasticks' Boy meets girl, forever (2:05). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
'Fuerza Bruta: Look Up' A sensory bath aimed at clubgoing college kids in search of cultural diversion (1:05). Daryl Roth Theater, 20 Union Square East, at 15th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Jersey Boys' The biomusical that walks like a man (2:30). August Wilson Theater, 245 West 52nd Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'The Lion King' Disney's call of the wild (2:45). Minskoff Theater, 200 West 45th Street, (800) 870-2717, ticketmaster.com.
'Mamma Mia!' The jukebox musical set to the disco throb of Abba (2:20). Cadillac Winter Garden Theater, 1634 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Newsies' Extra! Extra! enthusiasm (2:20). Nederlander Theater, 208 West 41st Street, (866) 870-2717, newsiesthemusical.com.
'Old Jews Telling Jokes' With old jokes, a few songs and a little schmaltz, this winning revue is simple, effective entertainment executed with obvious affection (1:20). Westside Theater, 407 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Once' Almost love, in a singing Dublin (2:15). Bernard B. Jacobs Theater, 242 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Perfect Crime' The murder mystery that has been investigated since 1987 (1:30). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
'The Phantom of the Opera' Who was that masked man anyway? (2:30). Majestic Theater, 247 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Rock of Ages' Big hair, thrashing guitars and inspired humor fuel this jukebox musical (2:25). Helen Hayes Theater, 240 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Silence! The Musical' An ''unauthorized parody'' of the grisly movie with the Hannibal Lecter character crooning noxious songs and a hilarious sendup of Jodie Foster's intense Clarice Starling. Not as funny as it needs to be (1:30). Elektra Theater, 674 Eighth Avenue, at 42nd Street, (212) 352-3101, silencethemusical.com.
'Sistas: The Musical' Black women reflect on their lives, with songs (1:30). St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Sleep No More' A movable, murderous feast at Hotel Macbeth (2:00). The McKittrick Hotel, 530 West 27th Street, Chelsea, (866) 811-4111, sleepnomorenyc.com.
'Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark' Web surfing with music (2:45). Foxwoods Theater, 213 West 42nd Street, (800) 745-3000, spidermanonbroadway.marvel.com.
'Stomp' And the beat goes on (and on), with percussion unlimited (1:30). Orpheum Theater, 126 Second Avenue, at Eighth Street, East Village, (800) 982-2787, ticketmaster.com.
'Wicked' Oz revisited (2:45). Gershwin Theater, 222 West 51st Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
Last Chance
'Basilica' (closes on Saturday) Mando Alvarado's new drama sinks into predictable melodrama, but it's still gripping in its portrayal of a family in crisis in San Juan, Tex. This is thanks in large part to the acting, especially that of Felix Solis as the mercurial Joe Garza (2:00). Cherry Lane Theater, 38 Commerce Street, West Village, (866) 811-4111, rattlestick.org. (La Rocco)
'The Caucasian Chalk Circle' (closes on Sunday) Christopher Lloyd brings acrid humor and physical exuberance to his roles as the narrator and the rascally rogue Azdak in Brian Kulick's astute if uneven production of Brecht's fable about a young woman who adopts an abandoned baby. The original music, by Duncan Sheik, is haunting and effective, and Elizabeth A. Davis (''Once'') sings with an appropriate soulfulness as the innocent Grusha (2:30). Classic Stage Company, 136 East 13th Street, East Village, (866) 811-4111, classicstage.org. (Isherwood)
'Good Television' (closes on Sunday) Rod McLachlan explores the ghoulish world of reality television in this unsurprising but nicely done comedy-drama about a crew descending on the family of a South Carolina meth addict (the terrific John Magaro) in the hopes of digging up drama and good ratings (1:45). Atlantic Stage 2, 330 West 16th Street, Chelsea, (866) 811-4111, atlantictheater.org. (Isherwood)
'Requiem for Black Marie' (closes on Sunday) Sara Farrington's play about Brecht and his women looks just right -- all the Weimar scrunge is in place -- but the themes of art, authorship and sexual politics remain sketchy (1:15). St. Mark's Church, 131 East 10th Street, East Village, incubatorarts.org. (Saltz)
'Somewhere Fun' (closes on Sunday) Kathleen Chalfant and Kate Mulgrew, as two upper crusty old friends whose chance meeting on a Manhattan street incites a collage of strange encounters, lead an excellent cast in Jenny Schwartz's intermittently diverting, blatantly word-drunk but deeply frustrating new play. The virtuosic language often delights, but underneath is an emotional void (2:15). Vineyard Theater, 108 East 15th Street, Manhattan, (212) 353-0303, vineyardtheatre.org. (Isherwood)
'3 Kinds of Exile' (closes on Sunday) The strange, sad saga of the Polish actress Elzbieta Czyzewska forms the moving heart of John Guare's new work, a triptych of stories about Eastern European exiles. The talented actors David Pittu and Martin Moran appear in the other plays that bookend Mr. Guare's compassionate, engrossing tribute to Czyzewska, which also features the Polish-born actor Omar Sangare (1:45). Linda Gross Theater, 336 West 20th Street, Chelsea, (866) 811-4111, atlantictheater.org. (Isherwood)
'The Tutors' (closes on Sunday) Erica Lipez's likable, well-observed comedy-drama focuses on three Manhattan millennials (well played by Keith Nobbs, Matt Dellapina and Aubrey Dollar) trying to get a social network off the ground while they pay the bills by tutoring clients like the needy, entitled high schooler played by Chris Perfetti. Thomas Kail (''In the Heights'') directs (2:00). McGinn/Cazale Theater, 2162 Broadway, at 76th Street, (212) 246-4422, 2st.com. (Isherwood)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (88%); DRAMA LITERATURE (79%); THEATER COMPANIES (79%); THEATER (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); MUSICAL THEATER (79%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (79%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (77%); MUSIC (73%); SONG WRITING (68%); WRITERS (68%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (68%); RELIGION (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (55%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2013



694 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 288 words

HEADLINE: New York City's Unemployment Rate Dips Slightly

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
New York City's unemployment rate dipped to 8.3 percent in May, its lowest level in more than four years, despite a sharp drop in the pace of hiring, the State Labor Department reported on Thursday. 
Hiring was strongest last month at restaurants, bars, museums and other businesses that cater to tourists. The city's construction industry added more than twice as many jobs last month as it typically does in May, said Elena Volovelsky, an economist with the Labor Department. Employment declined in the media industry and in health services.
In the past year, the number of private-sector jobs in the city has increased by 2 percent, the same rate of growth as in the rest of the nation, according to the Labor Department's data.
The decline in the unemployment rate, from 8.4 percent in April, took it to its lowest level since February 2009 -- when it was 8 percent, then a five year high -- but left it well above the national rate of 7.6 percent.
The city's unemployment rate, derived from a survey of residents, is adjusted for the usual seasonal fluctuations in hiring and layoffs. But the official tally of jobs in the city, which comes from a separate survey of employers, is not.
According to the calculations of a private economist, Barbara Byrne Denham, the number of private-sector jobs in the city rose by just 3,100 last month, after seasonal adjustments. That was much smaller than the average monthly gain of 10,000 in the first four months of 2013, she said.
Still, Ms. Denham, chief economist for Eastern Consolidated, a real estate services firm in Manhattan, said, ''We continue to maintain an optimistic outlook for the city and expect the economy will continue on a similar, if erratic, path of continued growth.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (93%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); LAYOFFS (73%); RESTAURANTS (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2013



695 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: Weiner Wants City to Test Single-Payer Health Care

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

 BODY:
Vowing to ''make New York City the single-payer laboratory in the country'' if he is elected mayor, Anthony D. Weiner on Thursday presented an ambitious plan to create a Medicare-like system for the coverage of municipal workers, retirees and uninsured immigrant residents left out of the Affordable Care Act.
Mr. Weiner, a Democrat who championed a Medicare-for-all style of health care as a congressman, said his plan could curb the rise of $15.5 billion in city spending on health care and save money for raises for teachers and other workers, mainly by using the city's muscle to reduce the profits or the role of private insurance companies. 
In return, he proposed that 300,000 city workers and 300,000 retirees who now pay nothing toward their insurance premiums should pay 10 percent -- 25 percent if they smoke. An estimated 500,000 undocumented immigrants would also be expected to buy in to the city's insurance coverage, he said, describing it as a more cost-effective way to care for those whose treatment in emergency rooms and city hospitals already falls to taxpayers.
''This isn't about who manages health care; this is about who manages the money in health care,'' Mr. Weiner said, flicking through slides showing that city spending on workers' health benefits was projected to rise by 40 percent from 2014 to 2017 under the current arrangement. Under an entrenched system partly codified in law, he said, a single private insurance company, Emblem, handles 95 percent of the coverage for the city's workers, and a state board approves annual raises in the rates it charges.
Of insurance companies, he said, ''Their job is to take in as much money as they can and pay out as little as they can.'' The complexity and delays of private insurance processing are no accident, he added: ''They make money on the float.''
Depending on the recommendations of a government task force he would create under a deputy mayor of health care innovation, he said, city coverage might still be placed in the hands of a different insurance company under a more competitive scheme, or the city might outsource just the administration to an insurer, as Medicare does while keeping overhead as low as 1.3 percent. A third option he listed would be for the city ''to take the whole thing in-house.''
He said he would reorganize government agencies to seize opportunities presented by the Affordable Care Act, and have his health care innovation task force consider insurance terms that ''keep more of the money in the city,'' like allowing prescriptions to be filled at local pharmacies rather than only by mail order, or using the city's development and investment capability to increase primary care at a hospital facing closure.
''This is not just a conversation you can have around cost,'' he said, citing the nation's experience in the 1990s with an H.M.O. model that no one liked, and calling the quality of health care in New York ''a crown jewel.''
The coverage devised by the task force, which he called Thrive (standing for Taskforce for Healthcare Reform, Innovation and Vitality for Everyone), could eventually be offered to all New Yorkers by being listed on the state insurance exchange required by the Affordable Care Act. Such an experiment could not be tried in places like Cincinnati or St. Paul, he went on, but ''New York is the health care capital of the world,'' with more than 560,000 health care workers, including tens of thousands of doctors and nurses in the city's own employ.
A single-payer model has been a hard sell nationally because of concern that it would reduce individual choice and increase government control over health care. Mr. Weiner would also have to win support from the city's unions, which may demand raises high enough to offset any contributions they would be required to make to their premiums.
His talk, at a public lecture series sponsored by the Common Good, a nonprofit, nonpartisan organization, at a City University of New York branch on West 67th Street, stirred enthusiasm and interest. In the hour before he spoke, word of Mr. Weiner's proposal galvanized other Democratic candidates for mayor to issue hurried news releases on health care.
Christine C. Quinn, the City Council speaker, drew attention to the BigAppleRx prescription drug discount card, established by Council legislation, which she said had saved more than 125,000 New Yorkers a total of $15,546,017 on prescription medications, or an overall savings of 47 percent, since May 2011.
Public Advocate Bill de Blasio cited health care positions from his policy book, which includes a pledge to enroll 600,000 uninsured New Yorkers in plans through the Affordable Care Act and to better protect community hospitals.
Mr. Weiner, asked how his health care plan compared with those of his rivals, said he was unfamiliar with theirs, adding with a grin, ''And when I say unfamiliar, I may mean I don't think they have any.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Anthony D. Weiner, a Democratic candidate for mayor, presented a plan on Thursday for insuring city workers, retirees and some immigrants. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (89%); INSURANCE (89%); MAYORS (89%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (88%); PUBLIC ENTITY LIABILITY INSURANCE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (77%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (77%); OUTSOURCING (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); IMMIGRATION (77%); HOSPITALS (76%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (72%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (70%); APPROVALS (69%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (67%)

PERSON: ANTHONY D WEINER (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2013



696 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1076 words

HEADLINE: Credit Markets Tighten in China as Central Bank Takes a Hard Line

BYLINE: By NEIL GOUGH and DAVID BARBOZA; Neil Gough reported from Hong Kong, and David Barboza from Shanghai.

 BODY:
HONG KONG -- China's financial system is in the throes of a cash squeeze as the government tries to restructure the economy and punish speculators, with interbank lending rates spiking on Thursday and bank-to-bank borrowing nearly stalled.
China's interbank and money market rates have soared over the last two weeks, and banks and other financial institutions are afraid of lending to one another. Without that lending, an economy can quickly stultify. Those in need of short-term cash, or liquidity, must pay dearly or risk default. 
China's central bank, the People's Bank of China, has refused to provide large amounts of additional cash to the credit market. Analysts say the government is holding off for a reason: it is trying to reshape the economy while reducing its future role. The bank is not independent, unlike many other central banks, and reports to the State Council.
A huge shadow banking operation has emerged in China in recent years, with smaller banks and trust companies borrowing from bigger state-run banks and relending that money at high interest rates to private companies and property developers, a practice that fuels speculation.
Pressuring speculators is a risky strategy for the Chinese government, which is also grappling with a slowing economy. Many borrowers may have a harder time paying back their loans, and analysts fear the losses could ripple through the banking system.
''The central bank wants to accelerate reform,'' said Zhu Haibin, an economist at JPMorgan Chase. ''They want to give the market a lesson: you need to manage your risk and not rely on the central bank.''
Mr. Zhu and other economists say restructuring the economy, which has grown addicted to easy money, could be perilous for another reason. The decision could reduce lending and slow growth too quickly.
The worst case, absent intervention by policy makers, would be defaults at lenders with the most exposure and shakiest balance sheets. The damage could spread to other banks, setting off runs on deposits by ordinary Chinese. In the near term, markets will probably continue to be rattled, especially shares in financial institutions.
That was certainly the fear on Thursday around the globe. ''China's interbank market is basically frozen -- much like credit markets froze in the United States right after Lehman failed,'' said Patrick Chovanec, managing director and chief strategist at Silvercrest Asset Management. ''Rates are being quoted, but no transactions are taking place.''
Stock markets across greater China fell Thursday on news of the liquidity situation and a disappointing survey on manufacturing. The Hang Seng Index in Hong Kong dropped 2.9 percent, and the Shanghai composite index fell 2.8 percent.
The combination of slower economic expansion and the liquidity squeeze offers one of the biggest challenges yet to the newly installed leadership in Beijing.
Prime Minister Li Keqiang, who took office in March, has said he plans changes that will promote sustainable growth, as opposed to relying on the easy credit from state-controlled banks that helped the country rebound since the 2008 financial crisis.
''While the economy faces up to many difficulties and challenges, we must promote financial reform in an orderly way to better serve economic restructuring,'' China's State Council said in a statement Wednesday after a meeting presided by Mr. Li, according to Xinhua, the state-run news agency.
The interest rate that Chinese banks must pay to borrow money from one another surged overnight to a record high of 13.44 percent Thursday, according to official daily rates set by the National Interbank Funding Center in Shanghai. That was up from 7.66 percent on Wednesday and less than 4 percent last month.
China's policy makers have an arsenal of options at their disposal to inject more money into the financial system, including open market operations -- trading in securities to control interest rates or liquidity -- or, more drastically, freeing up some of the trillions of renminbi that banks are required to keep on reserve with the central bank.
In the past, when China's economy hits a rough patch, the government usually steps in, forcing state-run banks to pump liquidity into the market, even though there was a risk it could drive up asset prices.
If the central bank's inaction toward the deepening liquidity squeeze is a form of financial brinkmanship, some analysts see it as aimed at reining in smaller banks that had been tapping the interbank market as a source of low-cost funds for their investment in higher-yielding bonds, or for off-balance-sheet activities.
Ting Lu, China economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, said on Thursday in a research note that although the surge in interbank lending rates could have its desired effect on reckless lenders, ''it will undoubtedly disrupt both the financial markets and the real economy if the liquidity squeeze lasts too long.''
China's economy has been showing signs of a slowdown in recent months. Economists at HSBC joined counterparts at several other banks on Wednesday in cutting growth forecasts for the Chinese economy this year.
On Thursday, a preliminary survey of factory purchasing managers in June suggested that output in China had fallen to its lowest level in nine months, as manufacturers cut production in response to slackened demand both at home and overseas.
The preliminary purchasing managers' index, published by HSBC and compiled by Markit, dropped to 48.3 points in the first three weeks of June, its lowest level since September and down from a final figure of 49.2 in May. A reading above 50 indicates growth, and anything below signals contraction.
''Beijing prefers to use reforms rather than stimulus to sustain growth,'' said Qu Hongbin, HSBC's chief economist for China, in a statement accompanying the survey results. ''While reforms can boost long-term growth, they will have a limited impact in the short term.''
The rise in interbank rates began two weeks ago, before China went on a three-day national holiday. Banks typically face higher demand for cash before public holidays, and the initial uptick in rates was not seen as abnormal.
But as the situation worsened, the central bank refrained from injecting new money into the system. Benchmark seven-day repurchase rates, another measure of borrowing costs, briefly soared as high as 25 percent on Thursday, up from 8.5 percent on Wednesday, before closing at 11.2 percent.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clockwise, from top left. A screen shows the Hang Seng index at the Hong Kong Stock Exchange on Thursday. Traders at the Frankfurt stock exchange, and a trader on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange at the closing bell. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KIN CHEUNG/ASSOCIATED PRESS
LIZZA DAVID/REUTERS
MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
 A factory in Qingdao. A survey of manufacturing suggested that output in China fell in June. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); BANKING IN CHINA (91%); CENTRAL BANKS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); INTERBANK LENDING (88%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (72%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (52%)

COMPANY: PEOPLE'S BANK OF CHINA (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); SILVERCREST ASSET MANAGEMENT GROUP INC (51%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (78%); BEIJING, CHINA (59%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (78%); EAST CHINA (78%); SHANDONG, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); HONG KONG (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2013



697 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: Markets Fall on China's Credit Squeeze and Fed's Exit Plan

BYLINE: By DAVID JOLLY

 BODY:
PARIS -- Global markets tumbled on Thursday over concern about a credit crunch in China and uncertainty about the United States central bank's plans for withdrawing the monetary stimulus upon which the American economy has become dependent.
Just a day after the Federal Reserve hinted that it could soon begin winding down its bond-purchasing program, investors were unnerved by reports that Chinese banks had become reluctant to lend to one another, causing interest rates in the interbank market to spike to punishingly high levels. 
On Wall Street, the broad-based Standard & Poor's 500-stock index ended down 2.5 percent Thursday, the Dow Jones industrial average dropped 2.3 percent -- more than 350 points -- and the Nasdaq composite index shed 2.3 percent. On Wednesday, the S.&P. 500 fell 1.4 percent.
The pain was also felt in the bond market, with yields on government bonds, which move in the opposite direction of the price, surging worldwide. The 10-year United States Treasury bond was yielding 2.380 percent, up 2.8 basis points. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percent. Expectations that interest rates will rise tend to depress the prices of existing securities.
A purchasing managers' report added to fears that China, which has been an engine of growth in the world economy, might not be able to carry the load indefinitely. The report suggested Chinese manufacturing was contracting.
''There's been a lot of focus on the market rates in China,'' said Laurent Fransolet, a European rate strategist at Barclays in London. ''Whether it's a full-fledged credit crunch remains to be seen.''
Analysts at Nomura International noted that one rate, known as the seven-day repo rate, rose to as high as 25 percent on Thursday, compared with just 4 percent a month ago, as the Chinese central bank declined to smooth the market.
''But the main driver here has been the aftermath of the Fed,'' Mr. Fransolet said about the global stock activity. ''We're still seeing the ripples of that.''
In Europe, the benchmark Euro Stoxx 50 index fell 3.1 percent, while the FTSE 100 in London ended down 3 percent.
In Asian trading, the Shanghai Stock Exchange composite index fell 2.8 percent. The Nikkei 225 stock average in Tokyo dropped 1.7 percent, the Hong Kong benchmark Hang Seng Index declined 2.9 percent and the S&P/ASX 200 index in Sydney fell 2.1 percent.
Gold futures dropped 6.2 percent, to $1,288.40 an ounce. The euro fell 0.6 percent, to $1.3220, while the dollar rose 1.6 percent, to 97.98 yen.
Markets had already been jittery after hearing about the Federal Reserve's plans to end the special operations it has been using to add liquidity to shore up the financial system. On Wednesday, Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, said the Fed hoped to begin reducing the size of its monthly bond purchases by the end of 2013 and end the program as soon as the American jobless rate fell to 7 percent.
Mr. Fransolet said investors had become accustomed to the so-called quantitative easing policies used by central banks to provide liquidity and support asset prices. In recent years, he said, markets faltered when the authorities talked about ending those policies and the central bankers had then backtracked.
But this time, he said, investors have grasped that the Fed is much more confident.
''That's something the markets need to take on board,'' Mr. Fransolet said. ''That's a big change from the last few years.''
The sell-off Thursday came in the face of economic news that showed an improving trend, if not actual growth, in the European economy. Markit Economics said its purchasing managers' composite output index for the euro zone rose to 48.9 in June from 47.7 in May, bringing the index to its highest level in 15 months. While an index level below 50 suggests economic contraction, the fact that the index has been ticking upward for three straight months indicated Europe may be on the way out of recession.
Chris Williamson, Markit's chief economist, said the data signaled ''stabilization in the third quarter and growth appearing in the fourth.''
London stocks fell as the Bank of England said British banks needed to raise their capital by another 13.4 billion pounds, or $20.7 billion, this year to improve their finances. The Bank of England made the announcement on the same day that euro zone finance ministers convened in Luxembourg, where banking issues were to be at the top of the agenda.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); BONDS (91%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); BANKING IN CHINA (78%); GOLD MARKETS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); FUTURES (76%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (71%); INTERBANK LENDING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (87%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (71%) EAST CHINA (79%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (71%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2013



698 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1093 words

HEADLINE: Global Sell-off Shows Fed Reach Beyond the U.S.

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL POPPER; Peter Eavis contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Tumbling stock, bond and commodity prices around the world are demonstrating just how reliant the global economy has become on the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve.
In the weeks since the Fed's chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, first indicated that the central bank might start to pare back its support for the economy, markets in Asia, Europe and Latin America have fallen even more sharply than those in the United States, threatening economic growth in many countries.
While leading market measures in the United States have declined 4 percent over the last month, an index of the world's stock markets has slumped more than 6 percent. 
''The Fed isn't just the U.S.'s central bank. It's the world's central bank,'' said Mark Frey, the chief strategist at the Cambridge Mercantile Group.
The selling picked up in markets around the world on Thursday, a day after Mr. Bernanke's latest comments on the Fed's plan to wind down the stimulus. While the reason for the shift by the Fed is good -- a strengthening of the recovery in the United States -- investors are nervous that the global economy may not be ready.
The prospect of slowing economic growth and rising interest rates set off waves of volatile selling on markets around the world. In the United States, the benchmark Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 2.5 percent on Thursday, its steepest one-day decline since November 2011. Treasury prices also slumped, driving yields, which move in the opposite direction, to touch their highest levels in nearly two years.
The yield on the 10-year Treasury -- a benchmark for mortgages and other consumer rates -- rose as high as 2.47 percent before settling at 2.42 percent. Gold, once a favorite of investors, slid to two-and-a-half-year lows.
The damage was more pronounced in a wide array of markets outside the United States, like Philippine government bonds and the Norwegian currency. Stock indexes in China, Europe and Mexico fell more than 3 percent.
Investors were also rattled by reports that Chinese banks had become reluctant to lend to one another. And Europe's debt woes came into focus again after the International Monetary Fund said it was considering suspending aid to Greece. But traders and investors cited the Fed's changing policies as the main driver behind the big flows of money around the world.
''The trigger was clearly what is going on with the Fed,'' said Ashish Goyal, the investment director at Eastspring Investments in Singapore.
The heavy selling is a sharp reversal after years when low interest rates in the United States encouraged investors to put their money into foreign countries. For investors in once-attractive foreign markets, the fear is that those markets may be on even less firm economic footing than the United States', and consequently less able to absorb the decline in lending that comes along with rising interest rates.
''When the U.S. embarks upon policies that are appropriate for its own domestic circumstances, it can impose policies on the rest of the world that aren't necessarily appropriate to them,'' said Darren Williams, the senior European economist at AllianceBernstein in London.
Interest rates are a vital determinant and indicator of economic activity. To try to encourage borrowing and bolster the economy after the financial crisis, the Fed has pushed rates down by cutting the interest rates it offers banks and by buying more than $2 trillion of bonds. The extent of the intervention has put markets on a hair trigger for any hint of a change from the Fed.
Mr. Bernanke has indicated that the Fed will pare its bond purchases only very slowly and may increase them again if there are signs the economy is being hurt. That has some analysts calling this week's market turmoil a panicked overreaction. For the year, the S.& P. 500 index is still up 11.4 percent.
But there are significant concerns that the Fed may not be able to control the convulsions in the markets that Mr. Bernanke has already set off with his comments.
''It's a very significant moment,'' said Sebastian Galy, a foreign exchange strategist at Société Générale. ''It's the end of an extremely aggressive phase of monetary policy globally.''
The American economy is probably not immune to these changes. After years of falling interest rates, which have encouraged a recovery in the housing market, banks have recently been asking for higher interest payments from home buyers. There are already signs that this is putting a damper on home sales. All of this helps explain the recent declines in American stocks. But Mr. Bernanke said that the United States economy was on firm enough footing to withstand the rising rates, and he has promised to intervene if that changes.
The outlook has not been so bright in much of the rest of the world. China and Brazil are wrestling with lower growth rates. Falling prices for commodities are hurting natural-resource-rich countries like Australia and Russia.
After the financial crisis, many of these markets became attractive to investors seeking higher returns in the face of paltry interest rates. Some 55 percent of the Mexican bond market, for example, is now owned by foreigners, up from 25 percent in 2010, according to Claudio Irigoyen, the Latin American strategist at Bank of America.
Hedge funds and other money managers have also been borrowing money on the cheap in the United States and using it to invest in foreign stock and bond markets offering higher returns. Now the prospect of higher interest rates in the United States is causing those investors to quickly unwind those trades.
Smaller investors are also retreating, pulling out of mutual funds and exchange-traded funds that own the bonds issued by developing countries. During the last week, these funds have had the largest outflow on record -- $622 million -- according to Lipper, a fund data company.
Such outflows may bring back memories of past periods of global financial tumult, when countries like Russia and Mexico defaulted on their government debt partly because of an exodus of foreign investors. But most developing countries are now on a much firmer financial footing than they were in the past, reducing the chances of a crisis stemming from the turmoil.
Still, the current upheaval is already causing pain for many investors. Brevan Howard Assert Management, a powerful hedge fund manager, has seen its emerging market fund drop nearly 12 percent, or $300 million, this year, according to people briefed on the fund's performance.
''People are trying to figure out how to get out,'' Mr. Irigoyen said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Traders at the New York Stock Exchange on Thursday, a day when the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 2.5 percent. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B5) CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); ECONOMIC POLICY (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); INTEREST RATES (87%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); BANKING IN CHINA (78%); METALS MARKETS (78%); GOLD MARKETS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); INDEX FUNDS (75%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (94%); CHINA (92%); ASIA (92%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); NORWAY (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); MEXICO (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); GREECE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2013



699 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1708 words

HEADLINE: 'Premium Shock' and 'Premium Joy' Under the Affordable Care Act

BYLINE: UWE E. REINHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: Changing systems of health insurance that will take effect later this year under the Affordable Care Act will benefit many people, but lead to higher premiums for some, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Uwe E. Reinhardt is an economics professor at Princeton. He has some financial interests in the health care field. 
Starting on Oct. 1, Americans can purchase individual health insurance in what is known as the nongroup market on the newly established electronic health-insurance exchanges that were called for in the Affordable Care Act of 2010. That coverage will take effect on Jan. 1.
In the meantime, Americans will be bombarded with information on the premiums they will pay for coverage on the exchanges. Much of that information will be pure speculation, and a good part of it will be strategic misinformation (a topic that I will explore more fully in a future post).
So let's review what the new arrangement seeks to accomplish. 
 Medical Underwriting Under the Traditional Arrangement

Traditionally, the premium that a particular insurer in the nongroup market has quoted an individual applicant can be expressed as
Pi= (1 + L)Xi
Pi denotes the premium quoted to the individual applicant "i." Xi is an actuarial estimate of the insurer's expected outlay for covered health benefits used by that individual "i" in the coming year. L is a "loading factor" added to cover the additional cost of marketing and administration, as well as a target profit margin.
Basing the premium on an individual's health status is known as "medical underwriting." The insurer includes in the application form a lengthy questionnaire on the applicant's current and previous medical conditions and use of health care. Jonathan Cohn has described this process well in The New Republic, drawing particular attention to the long list of medical conditions for which the insurers will reject an applicant.

The number of applicants refused coverage in the nongroup market can be high. In a recent paper by the actuarial benefit consulting firm Milliman, prepared for the Indiana Health Care Exchange Policy Committee, an average of 13 percent of applicants age 35 to 39 and 24 percent of applicants age 55 to 59 were found to have been denied insurance coverage in Indiana's nongroup health insurance market (see Figure 3). Although the rejected individuals might find coverage in a state-run high-risk pool, premiums for that coverage and out-of-pocket expenses tend to be very high.
Until 2012, each insurer was free to set its own load factor L (as in the equation above), constrained only by the market. In the large-group market serving employers with many employees, the load factor tended to range from 15 to 30 percent, corresponding to a ratio of health benefits paid for a premium collected (known as the medical loss ratio) of 75 to 85 percent. In the markets for small groups and individuals, however, the load factor could exceed 80 percent (with a medical loss ratio of 45 percent) This made the premium charged the insured almost double what the insurer paid for health benefits.
Under the Affordable Care Act, effective January 2012, the load factor must be at or below 17.65 percent in the large-group market (a medical loss ratio of not less than 85 percent), and at or below 25 percent in the small group and individual market (a medical loss ratio of not less than 80 percent). By itself, this provision should lower the premiums charged to the insured in the nongroup market.
 Community Rating Under the Affordable Care Act

Under the law, an individual health plan selling policies in the small-group and nongroup market - whether it sells policies through the state's exchange or not - will be free to set its own premium for a given policy. But within a given age group, it must apply the same premium to all comers, regardless of their health and their gender. Furthermore, the health plan cannot reject any applicant willing to pay that premium, a provision called "guaranteed issue," or cancel existing policies.
In other words, the Xi based on the individual's health status in the equation above will be replaced by the average expected health spending per insured, with the average calculated over the insurer's entire anticipated risk pool of insured members of a given age. To calculate the average, the insurer must consider as one single risk pool all enrollees in all health plans offered by the insurer, whether or not they are offered on the exchange.
This form of premium setting is known as "community rating." Because it forces healthier individuals to subsidize sicker individuals through the community-rated premiums, it has been much debated.
Community rating invites "cherry-picking" by insurers - i.e., attempts to attract mainly low-risk applicants. To limit the profit potential from cherry-picking, there will be post-enrollment risk adjustments through which funds are transferred from insurers ending up with relatively healthier risk pools to those ending up with relatively higher risk pools.
The community rating under the law is not the pure version found in the social insurance systems of Europe (e.g., Switzerland, the Netherlands and Germany) or Asia, where even age is not considered in setting premiums. Rather, the American version is called adjusted community rating, because it does allow insurers to adjust the community-rated premium for the age of the applicant.
Age-adjusting is done by multiplying the community-rated premium for the youngest members in the expected risk pool by a standard, multiplicative age ratio to be used by all insurers. Thus the quoted premium can increase step by step with age, but only up to a multiplicative factor of 3. At a given age, smokers can be charged up to 1.5 times the regular premium.
The change from what was in place before the Affordable Care Act to post-law arrangements in the nongroup market can be illustrated graphically. In the chart below, we assume initially that all members of a given population are covered by either medically underwritten or community-rated health insurance, with a given package of covered health benefits. The white line represents the premium individuals would have to pay under medical underwriting. The dashed segment of that line is meant to show the actuarial cost and the premium range in which insurers in the real world would reject applicants outright. The green line shows the community-rated premium for this same population. We assume here that age is either not factored into the premium or the population in question is all of the same age, which is why the green line is horizontal.
 Premium Shock 
As the chart illustrates, a switch from medically underwritten premiums to community-rated ones raises the premiums for the relatively healthier members of the insurer's risk pool. Many of them will suffer what has come to be called premium shock.
Younger and healthier members of the pool should realize that, in effect, they are buying a call option that allows them to buy coverage at a premium far below the high actuarial cost of covering them when they are sicker. The price charged the healthy for this call option is the difference between the premium they must pay and the current lower actuarial cost of covering them.
Furthermore, for Americans in households with incomes below 400 percent of the federal poverty line, the green and red lines exaggerate the impact of the law on their spending. These Americans will be granted often quite generous, income-dependent federal subsidies toward the premiums they face on the exchanges and their out-of-pocket costs for health care. This makes it well-nigh impossible to make general statements, based on averages, about the net after-subsidy impact of the law.
Thus, to compare how an individual currently insured in the nongroup market will fare as of Jan. 1, one should compare the premium the individual pays now - the medically underwritten Pi= (1 + L)Xi as in the equation above - with the net after-subsidy premium:
Pc = (1 + L)Xc - TCi
where Pc now is a common, community-rated premium quoted to all applicants in a given age group, Xc is the expected per-member outlay on health care for the insured, averaged over the insurer's entire risk pool, and TCi is the income-based federal subsidy to which individual "i" may be entitled.
It is now easy to see how opponents of the health care law seeking to denounce it can engage in judicious half-truth. To that end, one compares the premium Pi currently paid by a perfectly healthy individual for a relatively skimpy insurance policy with the community-rated premium Pc, which covers a richer benefit package, and one would not, of course, mention the federal subsidies toward the quoted premium Pc and out-of-pocket costs, which can substantially reduce the overall out-of-pocket outlays for health care of lower-income individuals.
That said, however, some higher-income individuals and small businesses are likely to see their premiums go up as a result of the new regime. Not everyone gains from the change.
 Premium Joy 
Less frequently noted in commentaries about the law - certainly among its critics - is that the law is likely to bring what I call "premium joy" to individuals and families with health problems. Many such people simply could not afford the high, medically underwritten premiums they were quoted in the traditional nongroup market. This joy will be shared by high-risk applicants who were refused coverage by the insurer, along with people now in high-risk pools.
One major design flaw in the law should be noted.
The law mandates all individuals to have insurance coverage for a stipulated minimum benefit package, a necessary companion of community rating. Because the penalties for disobeying that mandate are so low, many young, healthy people may prefer to pay the penalty and remain uninsured until they fall ill, when they can get community-rated coverage.
That possibility - called "adverse risk selection" - could raise the entire community-rated premium curve from, say, the green curve to the red curve, adding to the premium shock of healthy people. Although the federal subsidies will mitigate this effect for many insured, better approaches are available to deal with this problem.

        
The New Subsidy for Layoffs
        
Affordable Care Act Could Be Good for Entrepreneurship
        
Massachusetts Employees Will Keep Their Health Plans
        
Patterns of Changes in Health Insurance
        
Health Coverage Worthy of a Senator

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (93%); HEALTH CARE (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (90%); INSURANCE (90%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (90%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (77%); DENIAL OF INSURANCE COVERAGE (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%) Health Insurance and Managed Care; Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (2010); Today's Economist

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2013



700 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2013

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 509 words

HEADLINE: IHT Quick Read: June 21

BYLINE: THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE


HIGHLIGHT: The Federal Reserve causes global ripples; extremism among Myanmar Buddhists; wary foreign investment in Russia; and a Czech hockey player keeps his countrymen up at night. 

 BODY:
 NEWS Tumbling stock, bond and commodity prices around the world are demonstrating just how reliant the global economy has become on the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve. Nathaniel Popper reports. 
The mass protests thundering across Brazil have swept up an impassioned array of grievances - costly stadiums, corrupt politicians, high taxes and shoddy schools - and spread to more than 100 cities on Thursday night, the most yet, with increasing ferocity. Simon Romero and William Neuman report from São Paulo.
Over the past year, images of rampaging Burmese Buddhists carrying swords and the vituperative sermons of monks like Ashin Wirathu have underlined the rise of extreme Buddhism in Myanmar - and revealed a darker side of the country's greater freedoms after decades of military rule. Buddhist lynch mobs have killed more than 200 Muslims and forced more than 150,000 people, mostly Muslims, from their homes. Thomas Fuller reports from Taunggyi, Myanmar.
As the one-year anniversary of Mohamed Morsi's inauguration as Egypt's first freely elected president approaches, he faces widespread discontent from a swath of society and stinging grass-roots campaigns that have undermined his ability to wield power and address the country's most pressing problems. Ben Hubbard and Mayy El Sheikh report from Cairo.
In the latest release of documents supplied by Edward J. Snowden, the former N.S.A. contractor believed to be hiding in Hong Kong, The Guardian published two documents setting out the detailed rules governing the agency's intercepts. Dated 2009 and signed by Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr., they advise N.S.A. eavesdroppers on how to judge whether a target is a foreigner overseas, and therefore fair game, and what to do when they pick up Americans at home or abroad. Scott Shane reports from Washington.
The newly appointed prime minister of the Palestinian Authority, Rami Hamdallah, submitted his resignation on Thursday after only two weeks in office, a signal of continuing internal political disarray amid the already complicated American efforts to restart the peace process with Israel. Isabel Kershner reports from Jerusalem.
Foreign investors in Russia, wary of endemic corruption and an expanding government role in the economy, are hanging back, depriving the country's economy of essential capital. David M. Herszenhorn and Andrew E. Kramer report from St. Petersburg.
 ARTS In a spectacular market turnaround, Sotheby's sale of Impressionist and modern art on Wednesday evening was as smoothly successful as Christie's session a day earlier was tough. Souren Melikian reports from London.
 SPORTS The Czech hockey great Jaromir Jagr, playing for the Boston Bruins, is pursuing his third Stanley Cup title and first in more than 20 years - and Czechs are staying up late to watch. Brian Pinelli reports from Prague.
LeBron James of the Miami Heat scored 37 points and added a second straight N.B.A. title to his two Olympic gold medals while denying the Spurs' Tim Duncan his fifth title. Howard Beck reports from Miami.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RELIGION (93%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); AUCTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ICE HOCKEY (86%); SPORTS AWARDS (83%); METALS MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); GOLD MARKETS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); CORRUPTION (77%); POLITICS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (77%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); APPOINTMENTS (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); BASKETBALL (68%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (68%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (64%); OLYMPICS (63%); RESIGNATIONS (62%); ANNIVERSARIES (53%); PEACE PROCESS (50%) IHT Rendezvous

PERSON: MOHAMMED MORSI (77%); ERIC HOLDER (51%); LEBRON JAMES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (77%); CAIRO, EGYPT (55%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (52%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (77%) MYANMAR (94%); CZECH REPUBLIC (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); BRAZIL (92%); EGYPT (79%); HONG KONG (79%); ISRAEL (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2013



701 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2013

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 808 words

HEADLINE: With Incentives, There Is New Hope for Smith Electric's Truck Plant in the Bronx

BYLINE: JIM MOTAVALLI


HIGHLIGHT: Smith Electric Vehicles still has not begun building electric delivery trucks in the Bronx, but there is a possibility that production could begin soon. 

 BODY:
On a late fall day in 2011, politicians gathered in the South Bronx to celebrate the startling news that Smith Electric Vehicles would open a 90,000-square-foot plant near Hunts Point to assemble electric delivery trucks. "Today is an amazing day in God's country," said Borough President Rubén Díaz Jr. The plan was for Smith to begin production in the second quarter of 2012.
It did not happen then, and the company's Bronx space is currently empty. For Bryan L. Hansel, Smith Electric's chairman and chief executive, the business case for electric cars is partly dependent upon the lucrative government subsidies that make electric trucks economically viable. In New York and elsewhere, some of those incentives have been held up, but with a federal waiver becoming effective on Tuesday they can finally move forward with development. 
As is usually the case with subsidies like this, it's complicated. The New York State Energy Research and Development Authority is offering a voucher program for commercial battery trucks, financing the incentives with Federal Highway Administration money allocated for congestion and air-quality mitigation.
For Smith, the sticking point was steel. Because the company's electric trucks use chassis and cabs made from steel produced in the Czech Republic, the company, and its potential customers, needed the federal waiver to allow the subsidies to sidestep the Transportation Department's Buy America program, which began in 1983. Intended to focus on highway construction, Buy America prohibits the use of Federal Highway Administration funds for projects unless all the iron and steel used is produced in the United States. It's a difficult target for internationally sourced cars and trucks to reach.
On Tuesday, the Federal Highway Administration conditionally waived the Buy America provisions for some 74 projects nationally. These involve the purchase (via Smith and others) of about 3,500 vehicles - including sedans, trucks and street equipment - as long as their final assembly point is the United States.
About $9 million from New York State should soon become available to cover up to 80 percent of the added cost of an electric truck over a similar diesel version (with subsidies capped at $60,000 per vehicle), said Bill Van Amburg, senior vice president at Calstart, the California alternative transportation nonprofit that will administer the New York program for the Energy Research and Development Authority. According to the state's voucher incentive program page, the vouchers were tentatively scheduled to be available in mid-February.
Calstart supports alternative transportation and developed the voucher program that has subsidized 1,600 trucks in California since 2011. In New York State, qualifying trucks have to be operated in regions with air-quality compliance issues. There is also a $6 million New York City program, capped at $40,000 per truck, which covers a variety of alternative fuel vehicles, including hybrids, natural gas vehicles and electrics, Mr. Van Amburg said in an interview.
Mike O'Connell, senior director of fleet operations at Frito-Lay, which has a fleet of 280 Smith medium-duty electric trucks, said in an interview: "In the short term, buying electric trucks without subsidies is extremely challenging. In the long term, we expect costs to come down pretty dramatically."
The Energy Research and Development Authority said in a statement that it was working with the state Transportation Department to ensure that its electric truck incentives comply with the waiver. "If so, N.Y.S.E.R.D.A. expects to offer the program within the next several weeks," the statement said. Mr. Van Amburg said Calstart could begin fielding New York voucher requests before the end of July.
In 2012, Smith Electric also said it would build a similar truck factory in Chicago, but that too has been delayed. According to Crain's Chicago Business, the company hoped to open its plant in the second quarter of 2013. Chicago has its own $15 million program that is expected to issue about 250 vouchers to truck buyers. "We're glad that the federal, state and local issues are being resolved," said Tom Alexander, a spokesman for the Chicago mayor's office.
In a telephone interview, Mr. Hansel called the waiver approval "a critical piece that had to be in place." He said that he expected the vouchers to increase electric truck orders, and if that happened the company would go ahead and complete work on its assembly plants in New York and Chicago. Mr. Hansel said the Bronx plant could be operational quickly, assembling trucks 120 days after work commenced.

        
Why Does the F.D.R. Drive Look Like an Unmade Bed?
        
A Ride Around Manhattan in the Taxi of Tomorrow
        
Wheelies: The Chrysler Cacciatore Edition
        
New York City Unveils Parking App Pilot Program
        
Smith Electric to Build Trucks in the Bronx

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC VEHICLES (93%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (92%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (90%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (90%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); UTILITY VEHICLE MFG (89%); ENERGY RESEARCH (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); HYBRID VEHICLES (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); NATURAL GAS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (72%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (72%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (72%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (69%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (66%) automobiles; Bronx (NYC); Diaz, Ruben Jr; Electric and Hybrid Vehicles; Federal Highway Administration; Frito-Lay Inc; New York City; New York State; New York State Energy Research and Development Authority; Trucks and Trucking; Automobiles

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE ENERGY RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (69%); SMITH ELECTRIC VEHICLES CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Federal Highway Administration; Frito-Lay Inc; New York State Energy Research and Development Authority

PERSON: Diaz, Ruben Jr

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%) Bronx (NYC); New York City; New York State

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2013



702 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1676 words

HEADLINE: Sprint Raises Clearwire Bid

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Sprint Nextel is hoping to end a weeks-long battle for Clearwire. | The declines in stock, bond and commodity prices show how reliant the global economy has become on the Federal Reserve. | A fine on Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ underscores a gulf between two regulators. | Carl C. Icahn has a new, high-tech megaphone. 

 BODY:
SPRINT RAISES CLEARWIRE BID | With a new bid for Clearwire, Sprint Nextel is hoping to end a battle that has lasted weeks for the wireless network operator. Sprint raised its bid on Thursday to $5 a share, 47 percent higher than its last proposal and also higher than rival offer from Dish Network of $4.40 a share, DealBook's Michael J. de la Merced writes. Sprint's new bid values Clearwire at about $14 billion.
Both Sprint and Dish view Clearwire as the key to transforming their wireless empires. In addition, Clearwire has seemed at times to be part of Dish's bigger plans to buy control of Sprint itself from an existing suitor, SoftBank of Japan. But on Friday, Dish confirmed it was ending its pursuit of Sprint, saying in a securities filing that it had "decided to abandon its efforts to acquire Sprint." That followed an announcement on Tuesday that Dish would not submit a new takeover bid for Sprint.
"The tables have turned," Softbank's chief executive, Masayoshi Son, said Friday morning at a shareholders' conference in Tokyo. "Of course, we cannot let down our guard. But we have taken a big step forward," he continued. "If all goes as planned, our acquisition should be complete by early next month." 
THE FED'S GLOBAL REACH | European markets are bouncing back on Friday after a day of heavy losses on markets around the world. Still, the recent sharp declines in global stock, bond and commodity prices "are demonstrating just how reliant the global economy has become on the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve," Nathaniel Popper writes in The New York Times. "In the weeks since the Fed's chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, first indicated that the central bank might start to pare back its support for the economy, markets in Asia, Europe and Latin America have fallen even more sharply than those in the United States, threatening economic growth in many countries."
While market measures in the United States have declined 4 percent over the last month, a global stock index has fallen more than 6 percent, Mr. Popper notes. "The Fed isn't just the U.S.'s central bank. It's the world's central bank," said Mark Frey, the chief strategist at the Cambridge Mercantile Group. The selling on Thursday came a day after Mr. Bernanke's latest comments on the Fed's plan to wind down its stimulus, a shift that investors fear may come before the global economy is ready.
Mr. Bernanke's primary audience, the investors who spread the central bank's decisions through the economy, "responded as if the news had been grim," Binyamin Appelbaum writes in The New York Times. "The call-and-response underscores the complexity of the Fed's task as it seeks to do more to help the economy, but not too much."
NEW YORK REGULATOR SETS TOUGH BANK FINE | Benjamin M. Lawsky, the top financial authority in New York State, imposed a $250 million fine on Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, nearly 30 times what the federal government extracted last year, Jessica Silver-Greenberg and Ben Protess write in DealBook. "The bank, which agreed to settle the New York case, was accused of routing 28,000 payments worth about $100 billion on behalf of Iran and other countries blacklisted from doing business in the United States. In contrast, federal authorities at the Treasury Department cited the bank for processing 97 fund transfers, worth about $6 million." Though the disparity stemmed in part from a legal technicality, the action on Thursday "underscored the gulf between the two regulators."
ON THE AGENDA | Jeffrey Skilling, the former chief executive of Enron, is set to appear in court to hear if his prison sentence will be reduced. Alan Blinder, a former Federal Reserve vice chairman, is on CNBC at 11 a.m. Laszlo Birinyi of Birinyi Associates is on Bloomberg TV at 3 p.m.
ICAHN TAKES TO TWITTER | Carl C. Icahn, an outspoken investor in the old-school Wall Street style, has a new, and decidedly high-tech, megaphone. Mr. Icahn is on Twitter, his assistant confirmed on Thursday. With the handle @Carl_C_Icahn, the investor, who is 77, posted his first tweet Thursday morning, with a reference to his investment in Dell. The message - "Twitter is great. I like it almost as much as I like Dell" - prompted its own filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 | Contact: @williamalden | E-mail
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions »
Senators Urge Additional Review of Smithfield's Sale to Shuanghui | The group of 15 senators wrote a letter to Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew, who oversees the Committee on Foreign Investments in the United States, to add the Agriculture Department and the Food and Drug Administration to the agencies reviewing the deal.
DealBook »
Tribune Burned by Its Own Tax Strategy | The clever tax strategy devised by the Tribune Company has backfired, Floyd Norris, a columnist for The New York Times, writes. "The company seems likely to have to pay hundreds of millions of dollars in taxes that it would never have owed had it not tried to be so clever."
NEW YORK TIMES
A.D.M. Looks to Sell Cocoa Unit | Archer Daniels Midland is seeking a buyer for its $2 billion cocoa and chocolate business, The Financial Times reports.
FINANCIAL TIMES
Rosneft to Send $60 Billion of Oil to China | The New York Times reports: "The Russian state oil company, Rosneft, intends to sign a major contract to supply China with more than $60 billion of crude oil, a deal that could signal a small shift away from Western Europe toward Asia."
NEW YORK TIMES
Gazprom of Russia Agrees to Buy Power Plant in Belgium | 
WALL STREET JOURNAL
INVESTMENT BANKING »
Apple Bondholders Take a Beating | After a fall in bond prices, Apple's sale of $17 billion of debt looks well-timed from the company's perspective, Joe Weisenthal of Business Insider writes.
BUSINESS INSIDER
Oracle to Leave Nasdaq for the Big Board | Oracle, one of the most prominent technology companies listed on the Nasdaq, is defecting to the New York Stock Exchange.
DealBook »
Mercurial Mortgage Rates Expected to Stabilize Soon | "It looks like the great American mortgage sale is finally coming to an end," Nelson D. Schwartz writes in The New York Times.
NEW YORK TIMES
Japanese Trading Firms to Invest $1.5 Billion in Australian Mine | 
REUTERS
PRIVATE EQUITY »
Rockwood Holdings Said to Cancel Sale of Assets | Rockwood Holdings had been in talks with private equity firms to sell its titanium dioxide and performance additives units for between $1.5 billion and $2 billion, but ended the auction after failing to get the offers it wanted, Reuters reports, citing unidentified people familiar with the matter.
REUTERS
Home Depot Outflips Private Equity | A buyout consortium looks set to recoup its investment in HD Supply and then some in an upcoming initial public offering. But Home Depot fared even better, Robert Cyran of Reuters Breakingviews writes.
REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS
HEDGE FUNDS »
Hedge Fund Manager Bets on Stock Crash in China | Reuters reports: "Former chess grandmaster-turned hedge fund manager Patrick Wolff is betting on a stock market crash in China, where he says corruption and bad debts have spiraled to dangerous levels."
REUTERS
Investors Ask to Withdraw More Money From Hedge Funds | 
REUTERS
I.P.O./OFFERINGS »
With Video Sharing, Facebook Moves to Match Its Rivals | "On Thursday, Facebook introduced its own short-video service, built into Instagram, the popular photo-sharing app that Facebook bought last year," The New York Times writes. "The move underscores how video has increasingly become critical to companies like Facebook, which is seeking ways to keep its 1.1 billion users entertained and engaged - particularly on their mobile devices."
NEW YORK TIMES
Macau Legend Considers Reducing and Delaying I.P.O. | The casino operator Macau Legend Development is considering cutting the size of its planned fund-raising by more than half, amid poor market conditions, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
VENTURE CAPITAL »
Twitter Executive Joins White House | Nicole Wong, Twitter's legal director of products, is joining the Obama administration as deputy United States chief technology officer, The Washington Post reports.
WASHINGTON POST
LEGAL/REGULATORY »
Senator Criticizes Lack of Supervision for Banks' Consultants | A warning from Senator Sherrod Brown of Ohio that there was a risk to the economy in the lax oversight of firms that banks hire to help them comply with federal rules.
DealBook »
Perelman Company Reaches Another Settlement | MacAndrews & Forbes, the holding company of the billionaire financier Ronald O. Perelman, agreed to pay a $720,000 civil penalty to resolve accusations that it violated reporting requirements related to its acquisition of stock in the Scientific Games Corporation.
DealBook »
Regulators Said to Consider Doubling Capital Requirement for Big Banks | Bloomberg News reports: "U.S. regulators are considering doubling a minimum capital requirement for the largest banks, which could force some of them to halt dividend payments."
BLOOMBERG NEWS
China Central Bank Takes Hard Line as Credit Tightens | The New York Times reports: "China's financial system is in the throes of a cash squeeze as the government tries to restructure the economy and punish speculators, with interbank lending rates spiking on Thursday and bank-to-bank borrowing nearly stalled."
NEW YORK TIMES
Europe's Finance Ministers Start Negotiating Rules for Failing Banks | 
NEW YORK TIMES
Apple Lawyer Says Outcome of E-Book Case Could Hurt Competition | The New York Times writes: "In battling the government's charges that it engaged in e-book price fixing, Apple has warned a judge that what is at stake is not just healthy competition in the book industry, but the way business is conducted between retailers and providers of everything from music to books to movies."
NEW YORK TIMES
Trustee for Madoff Victims Can't Sue Big Banks, Court Rules | 
ASSOCIATED PRESS
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (87%); GLOBALIZATION (86%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); TAKEOVERS (78%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); EMERGING MARKETS (70%); EXECUTIVES (67%); MONETARY POLICY (65%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (64%) Morning Agenda

COMPANY: SPRINT NEXTEL CORP (96%); CLEARWIRE CORP (92%); DISH NETWORK CORP (58%)

TICKER: S (NYSE) (96%); CLWR (NASDAQ) (92%); DISH (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (96%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (92%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (92%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (58%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: CARL ICAHN (90%); BEN BERNANKE (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (87%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (87%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2013



703 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2013

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: Tesla Fast-Tracks Battery Swapping While Fighting a Legislative Attack

BYLINE: JIM MOTAVALLI


HIGHLIGHT: Shortly after Tesla unveiled its new battery-swapping technology, the company caught wind of an effort in the New York State legislature to ban the sale of cars without franchised dealerships. 

 BODY:
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=shdHVGYQonQ
With his customary flair, Elon Musk, chief executive of Tesla Motors, went onstage at the company's Hawthorne, Calif., design studio Thursday night to announce a new option for the Model S: swappable batteries.
Before a friendly audience that included many Tesla owners, Mr. Musk's team swapped batteries out of, and back into, two Model S cars onstage in about 90 seconds each. The back-to-back swaps were timed against, and handily beat, a Tesla-produced video of a man spending about four minutes refueling an Audi sedan. Mr. Musk said that in an effort to be sporting, he and his associates had searched the Los Angeles area for the fastest-pumping gas station available - the one they chose, he said, has pumps capable of dispensing 10 gallons a minute. 
The swap stations will be built at Tesla Supercharger locations, and will give customers options, Mr. Musk said.
"So what if people do want to switch out their battery pack?" he asked at the presentation. "What if they only want to stop for a short period of time?"
The demonstration invited comparisons to the now-shuttered Better Place, which used battery swapping (with automated stations) as a cornerstone of its business. With Tesla, it's more like an extra service. Mr. Musk said fast swapping could be effective at convincing skeptics who worry about range and recharge times that "electric cars are the future."
The Tesla swap stations are estimated to cost $500,000 each, the company said. Jack Nerad, executive market analyst at Kelley Blue Book, said in an interview that creating a substantial network of them will "require a pretty significant investment in infrastructure," adding, "We have a huge network of gas stations in the United States that's hard to compete with, but even strategically locating the swap stations where they'll do the most good is a daunting task."
A Tesla spokeswoman, Shanna Hendriks, confirmed via e-mail that the first swap stations would be built this year along Interstate 5 between Los Angeles and San Francisco, followed by stations along the Boston-to-Washington corridor. The price of a swap will be loosely based on the local cost of 15 gallons of gas, which Mr. Musk said might be $60 in California. In most cases, Tesla owners will return to the station to have their original battery swapped back into the car, but rules are being worked out for other contingencies.
Tesla watchers undoubtedly found the California stage show just more evidence of the company's theatrical approach to announcements. But the drama intensified on Friday, when Mr. Musk said in a Twitter message, "Just heard that NY auto dealers are sneaking through a bill to shut down Tesla in NY. Please call your state senator!" He followed with a string of tweets about the legislative sneak attack.
https://twitter.com/elonmusk/status/348122391051898880
Tesla's direct-to-consumer sales strategy has run afoul of auto dealers in several states. At issue in this case are bills in the New York Legislature directed at "unfair practices by franchisors" but appear to be aimed directly at the electric carmaker and other such upstarts. New York is a huge market for Tesla, which said that the bills would take away the company's ability to operate stores in the state.
As Yahoo! Autos reported, a form letter that the New York State Automobile Dealers Association suggested its members send to their elected representatives said the bill "clarifies existing provisions of the franchise law to ensure fair dealings between dealers and franchisors." The letter added, "This legislation will level the playing field and help franchised dealers improve on those sales and job numbers in New York."
"Tesla is trying to change the status quo for selling cars through dealerships, and it remains to be seen if it will succeed," Gloria Bergquist, a spokeswoman for the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, said in a telephone interview.
In a statement, Tesla said the proposed legislation "hinders consumer choice," hurts the economy, "and will increase New York's carbon footprint." The bottom line, Tesla's statement said, is that if any such law is enacted, "special interests in Albany will once again have gotten their way while robbing New Yorkers of choices in the marketplace, and Tesla will be put out of business in New York." It added, "The result would be that all of Tesla's New York employees will lose their jobs."
Ms. Hendriks said in an e-mail that the company was holding "war room-like meetings" to fight what she described as "a huge threat in the state of New York."

        
Wheelies: The Cheaper Used Cars Edition
        
Gentlemen, Start Your Calculators: Checking the Math of Tesla's Lend-Lease Program
        
With Incentives, There Is New Hope for Smith Electric's Truck Plant in the Bronx
        
Wheelies: The Flying Car Edition
        
Wheelies: The Fantasy Electric Truck Edition

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FRANCHISING (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (89%); GAS STATIONS (88%); NEW CAR DEALERS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); SEDANS (77%); MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (76%); HYBRID VEHICLES (71%); INFRASTRUCTURE (51%) automobiles; California; Electric and Hybrid Vehicles; Law and Legislation; Musk, Elon; New York State; Tesla Motors Inc; Automobiles; Tesla Motors Inc|TSLA|NASDAQ

COMPANY: TESLA MOTORS INC (92%); KELLEY BLUE BOOK CO INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Tesla Motors Inc

TICKER: TSLA (NASDAQ) (92%) Tesla Motors Inc; TSLA; NASDAQ

INDUSTRY: NAICS336350 MOTOR VEHICLE TRANSMISSION & POWER TRAIN PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (53%)

PERSON: Musk, Elon

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%) California; New York State

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2013



704 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Lens)

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2013

SECTION: MULTIMEDIA

LENGTH: 1954 words

HEADLINE: Henri Cartier-Bresson: 'There Are No Maybes'

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: In 1971, Sheila Turner-Seed interviewed Henri Cartier-Bresson and other luminaries for a series of film strips that were lost until her daughter rediscovered them decades later. 

 BODY:
In 1971, Sheila Turner-Seed interviewed Henri Cartier-Bresson in his Paris studio for a film-strip series on photographers that she produced, with Cornell Capa, for Scholastic. After her death in 1979 at the age of 42, that interview, along with others she had conducted, sat like a time capsule in the archives of the International Center of Photography in New York.
That is, until 2011, when Ms. Turner-Seed's daughter, Rachel Seed, learned of their existence and went to I.C.P. to study the tapes. It was a profound experience for her, since she was 1 when her mother died and did not remember her voice.
Ms. Seed, herself a photographer, has been working on a personal documentary, "A Photographic Memory," about a daughter's search for the mother she never knew through their shared love of photography. She is raising money with a Kickstarter campaign. 
The second part of that interview, transcribed from tape by Sheila Turner-Seed, continues where we left off yesterday. It has been lightly edited. A DVD of the Cartier-Bresson interview, with his photos, is available from the International Center of Photography's online bookstore.
 Q. 
 Have you ever really been able to define for yourself when it is that you press the shutter? 
 A. 
It's a question of concentration. Concentrate, think, watch, look and, ah, like this, you are ready. But you never know the culminative point of something. So you're shooting. You say, "Yes. Yes. Maybe. Yes." But you shouldn't overshoot. It's like overeating, overdrinking. You have to eat, you have to drink. But over is too much. Because by the time you press, you arm the shutter once more, and maybe the picture was in between.
Very often, you don't have to see a photographer's work. Just by watching him in the street, you can see what kind of photographer he is. Discreet, tiptoes, fast or machine gun. Well, you don't shoot partridges with a machine gun. You choose one partridge, then the other partridge. Maybe the others are gone by then. But I see people wrrrr, like this with a motor. It's incredible, because they always shoot in the wrong moment.
 Q. 
 Can you bear to talk a bit about your equipment? 
 A. 
I am completely and have always been uninterested in the photographic process. I like the smallest camera possible, not those huge reflex cameras with all sorts of gadgets. When I am working, I have an M# because it's quicker when I'm concentrating.
Henri Cartier-Bresson and Sheila Turner-Seed
"The greatest joy for me is geometry; that means a structure."
 Q. 
 Why the 50-millimeter lens? 
 A. 
It corresponds to a certain vision and at the same time has enough depth of focus, a thing you don't have in longer lenses. I worked with a 90. It cuts much of the foreground if you take a landscape, but if people are running at you, there is no depth of focus. The 35 is splendid when needed, but extremely difficult to use if you want precision in composition. There are too many elements, and something is always in the wrong place. It is a beautiful lens at times when needed by what you see. But very often it is used by people who want to shout. Because you have a distortion, you have somebody in the foreground and it gives an effect. But I don't like effects. There is something aggressive, and I don't like that. Because when you shout, it is usually because you are short of arguments.
If you have little equipment, people don't notice you. You don't come like a show-off. It seems like an embarrassment, someone who comes with big equipment.
And photo electric cells in a camera - I don't see why it is done. It is a laziness. During the day, I don't need a light meter. It is only when light changes very quickly at dusk or when I'm in another country, in the desert or in the snow. But I guess first, and then I check. It is good training.
 Q. 
 In some sense, you impose your own rules that are like disciplines for yourself, then. 
 A. 
For myself - I'm not speaking for others. I take my pleasure that way. Freedom for me is a strict frame, and inside that frame are all the variations possible. Maybe I'm classical. The French are like that. I can't help it!
Photography as I conceive it, well, it's a drawing - immediate sketch done with intuition and you can't correct it. If you have to correct it, it's the next picture. But life is very fluid. Well, sometimes the pictures disappear and there's nothing you can do. You can't tell the person, "Oh, please smile again. Do that gesture again." Life is once, forever.
 Q. 
 How do you feel about color photography? 
 A. 
It's disgusting. I hate it! I've done it only when I've been to countries where it was difficult to go and they said, "If you don't do color, we can't use your things." So it was a compromise, but I did it badly because I don't believe in it.
The reason is that you have been shooting what you see. But then there are the printing inks and all sorts of different things over which you have no control whatsoever. There is all the interference of heaps of people, and what has it got to do with true color?
 Q. 
 If the technical problems were solved and what you saw on the page would really be what you saw with your eyes, would you still object? 
 A. 
Yes, because nature gives us so much. You can't accept everything of nature. You have to select things. It'd rather do paintings, and it becomes an insoluble problem. Especially when it comes to reportage, color has no interest whatsoever except that people do it because it's money. It's always a money problem.
There are some very good young photographers. They want to do photographic essays and there is no market for it.
In 1946, when we started Magnum, the world had been separated by the war and there was a great curiosity from one country to know how the other was. People couldn't travel, and for us it was such a challenge to go and testify - I have seen this and I have seen that. There was a market. We didn't have to do industrial accounts and all that.
Magnum was the genius of Bob Capa, who had great invention. He was playing the horses and the money paid for the secretaries. I came back from the Orient and asked Capa for my money and he said, "Better take your camera and go work. I have taken your money because we were almost in bankruptcy."
I kept on working. Now it is a very big problem because there are hardly any magazines. No big magazine is going to send you to a country because everybody has been there. It's another world. But there are heaps of specialized magazines who are going to use your files. And you can make quite a decent living just by files. But it means you have to add pictures for years and years. For a young photographer to start is quite a problem nowadays.
There are necessities of life, and everything is getting more expensive in a consumer society. So the danger is that photography might become very precious - "Oh, a very rare print." There's not a very real place for it. But what does it mean? That preciousness is a sickness.
Martine Franck/Magnum Photos Henri Cartier-Bresson with a photograph of his mother, Marthe Leverdier.
Why do photographers start giving numbers to their prints? It's absurd. What do you do when the 20th print has been done? Do you swallow the negative? Do you shoot yourself? It's the gimmick of money.
I think a print should be signed. That means a photographer recognizes that the print has been done either by him or according to his own standards. But a print is not like an etching, where the plate wears out. A negative doesn't wear out.
 Q. 
 Perhaps the only lead that photographers had was to imitate painters, and they still have to learn their own identity. 
 A. 
Yes. Why be embarrassed? We are not what you call "misfit painters." Photography is a way of expressing ourselves with another tool. That's all.
 Q. 
 Can we go back to something we were discussing earlier? What is it like to return to a country you have visited before? Is there a difference between the first time and when you return? 
 A. 
I like very much going back to a country after a while and seeing the differences, because you build up impressions, right or wrong, but always personal and vivid, by living in a country and working. You accumulate things and leave a gap, and you see the changes strongly when you've been away for a long time. And the evolution in a country is very interesting to measure with a camera.
But at the same time, I am not a political analyst or an economist. I don't know how to count. It's not that. I'm obsessed by one thing, the visual pleasure.
The greatest joy for me is geometry; that means a structure. You can't go shooting for structure, for shapes, for patterns and all this, but it is a sensuous pleasure, an intellectual pleasure, at the same time to have everything in the right place. It's a recognition of an order which is in front of you.
The difference between a good picture and a mediocre picture is a question of millimeters - small, small differences - but it's essential. I didn't think there is such a big difference between photographers. Very little difference. But it is that little difference that counts, maybe.
What is important for a photographer is involvement. It's not a propaganda means, photography, but it's a way of shouting what you feel. It's like the difference between a tract for propaganda and a novel. Well, the novel has to go through all the channel of the nerves, the imagination, and it's much more powerful than something you look at and throw away. If a theme is developed and goes into a novel, there is much more subtlety; it goes much deeper.
Poetry is the essence of everything, and it's through deep contact with reality and living fully that you reach poetry. Very often I see photographers cultivating the strangeness or awkwardness of a scene, thinking it is poetry. No. Poetry is two elements which are suddenly conflict - a spark between two elements. But it's given very seldom, and you can't look for it. It's like if you look for inspiration. No, it just comes by enriching yourself and living.
You have to forget yourself. You have to be yourself and you have to forget yourself so that the image comes much stronger - what you want by getting involved completely in what you are doing and not thinking. Ideas are very dangerous. You must think all the time, but when you photograph, you aren't trying to push a point or prove something. You don't prove anything. It comes by itself.
If I go to a place, it's not to record what is going on only. It's to try and have a picture which concretizes a situation in one glance and which has the strong relations of shapes. And when I go to a country, well, I'm hoping always to get that one picture about which people will say, "Ah, this is true. You felt it right."
That's why photography is important, in a way, because at the same time that it's a great pleasure getting the geometry together, it goes quite far in a testimony of our world, even without knowing what you are doing.
But as for me, I enjoy shooting a picture. Being present. It's a way of saying, "Yes! Yes! Yes!" It's like the last three words of Joyce's "Ulysses," which is one of the most tremendous works which have ever been written. It's "Yes, yes, yes." And photography is like that. It's yes, yes, yes. And there are no maybes. All the maybes should go to the trash, because it's an instant, it's a moment, it's there! And it's respect of it and tremendous enjoyment to say, "Yes!" Even if it's something you hate. Yes! It's an affirmation.
 Follow @ICPhotog and @nytimesphoto on Twitter. Lens is also on Facebook. 

        
Henri Cartier-Bresson: Living and Looking
        
Chim: A Vivid Retrospective of Europe
        
Elliott Erwitt's Best Picture? The Next One.
        
Following Weegee's Footsteps
        
Too Close for Comfort

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY (89%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (73%); INTERNET RETAILING (51%) A Photographic Memory; Henri Cartier-Bresson; International Center of Photography; Magnum Photos; Rachel Elizabeth Seed; Robert Capa; Sheila Turner-Seed; Cartier-Bresson, Henri; Turner-Seed, Sheila; Photography; Shoptalk

PERSON: Cartier-Bresson, Henri; Turner-Seed, Sheila

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2013



705 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Lens)

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2013

SECTION: MULTIMEDIA

LENGTH: 1954 words

HEADLINE: Henri Cartier-Bresson: 'There Are No Maybes'

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: In 1971, Sheila Turner-Seed interviewed Henri Cartier-Bresson and other luminaries for a series of film strips that were lost until her daughter rediscovered them decades later. 

 BODY:
In 1971, Sheila Turner-Seed interviewed Henri Cartier-Bresson in his Paris studio for a film-strip series on photographers that she produced, with Cornell Capa, for Scholastic. After her death in 1979 at the age of 42, that interview, along with others she had conducted, sat like a time capsule in the archives of the International Center of Photography in New York.
That is, until 2011, when Ms. Turner-Seed's daughter, Rachel Seed, learned of their existence and went to I.C.P. to study the tapes. It was a profound experience for her, since she was 1 when her mother died and did not remember her voice.
Ms. Seed, herself a photographer, has been working on a personal documentary, "A Photographic Memory," about a daughter's search for the mother she never knew through their shared love of photography. She is raising money with a Kickstarter campaign. 
The second part of that interview, transcribed from tape by Sheila Turner-Seed, continues where we left off yesterday. It has been lightly edited. A DVD of the Cartier-Bresson interview, with his photos, is available from the International Center of Photography's online bookstore.
 Q. 
 Have you ever really been able to define for yourself when it is that you press the shutter? 
 A. 
It's a question of concentration. Concentrate, think, watch, look and, ah, like this, you are ready. But you never know the culminative point of something. So you're shooting. You say, "Yes. Yes. Maybe. Yes." But you shouldn't overshoot. It's like overeating, overdrinking. You have to eat, you have to drink. But over is too much. Because by the time you press, you arm the shutter once more, and maybe the picture was in between.
Very often, you don't have to see a photographer's work. Just by watching him in the street, you can see what kind of photographer he is. Discreet, tiptoes, fast or machine gun. Well, you don't shoot partridges with a machine gun. You choose one partridge, then the other partridge. Maybe the others are gone by then. But I see people wrrrr, like this with a motor. It's incredible, because they always shoot in the wrong moment.
 Q. 
 Can you bear to talk a bit about your equipment? 
 A. 
I am completely and have always been uninterested in the photographic process. I like the smallest camera possible, not those huge reflex cameras with all sorts of gadgets. When I am working, I have an M# because it's quicker when I'm concentrating.
Henri Cartier-Bresson and Sheila Turner-Seed
"The greatest joy for me is geometry; that means a structure."
 Q. 
 Why the 50-millimeter lens? 
 A. 
It corresponds to a certain vision and at the same time has enough depth of focus, a thing you don't have in longer lenses. I worked with a 90. It cuts much of the foreground if you take a landscape, but if people are running at you, there is no depth of focus. The 35 is splendid when needed, but extremely difficult to use if you want precision in composition. There are too many elements, and something is always in the wrong place. It is a beautiful lens at times when needed by what you see. But very often it is used by people who want to shout. Because you have a distortion, you have somebody in the foreground and it gives an effect. But I don't like effects. There is something aggressive, and I don't like that. Because when you shout, it is usually because you are short of arguments.
If you have little equipment, people don't notice you. You don't come like a show-off. It seems like an embarrassment, someone who comes with big equipment.
And photo electric cells in a camera - I don't see why it is done. It is a laziness. During the day, I don't need a light meter. It is only when light changes very quickly at dusk or when I'm in another country, in the desert or in the snow. But I guess first, and then I check. It is good training.
 Q. 
 In some sense, you impose your own rules that are like disciplines for yourself, then. 
 A. 
For myself - I'm not speaking for others. I take my pleasure that way. Freedom for me is a strict frame, and inside that frame are all the variations possible. Maybe I'm classical. The French are like that. I can't help it!
Photography as I conceive it, well, it's a drawing - immediate sketch done with intuition and you can't correct it. If you have to correct it, it's the next picture. But life is very fluid. Well, sometimes the pictures disappear and there's nothing you can do. You can't tell the person, "Oh, please smile again. Do that gesture again." Life is once, forever.
 Q. 
 How do you feel about color photography? 
 A. 
It's disgusting. I hate it! I've done it only when I've been to countries where it was difficult to go and they said, "If you don't do color, we can't use your things." So it was a compromise, but I did it badly because I don't believe in it.
The reason is that you have been shooting what you see. But then there are the printing inks and all sorts of different things over which you have no control whatsoever. There is all the interference of heaps of people, and what has it got to do with true color?
 Q. 
 If the technical problems were solved and what you saw on the page would really be what you saw with your eyes, would you still object? 
 A. 
Yes, because nature gives us so much. You can't accept everything of nature. You have to select things. It'd rather do paintings, and it becomes an insoluble problem. Especially when it comes to reportage, color has no interest whatsoever except that people do it because it's money. It's always a money problem.
There are some very good young photographers. They want to do photographic essays and there is no market for it.
In 1946, when we started Magnum, the world had been separated by the war and there was a great curiosity from one country to know how the other was. People couldn't travel, and for us it was such a challenge to go and testify - I have seen this and I have seen that. There was a market. We didn't have to do industrial accounts and all that.
Magnum was the genius of Bob Capa, who had great invention. He was playing the horses and the money paid for the secretaries. I came back from the Orient and asked Capa for my money and he said, "Better take your camera and go work. I have taken your money because we were almost in bankruptcy."
I kept on working. Now it is a very big problem because there are hardly any magazines. No big magazine is going to send you to a country because everybody has been there. It's another world. But there are heaps of specialized magazines who are going to use your files. And you can make quite a decent living just by files. But it means you have to add pictures for years and years. For a young photographer to start is quite a problem nowadays.
There are necessities of life, and everything is getting more expensive in a consumer society. So the danger is that photography might become very precious - "Oh, a very rare print." There's not a very real place for it. But what does it mean? That preciousness is a sickness.
Martine Franck/Magnum Photos Henri Cartier-Bresson with a photograph of his mother, Marthe Leverdier.
Why do photographers start giving numbers to their prints? It's absurd. What do you do when the 20th print has been done? Do you swallow the negative? Do you shoot yourself? It's the gimmick of money.
I think a print should be signed. That means a photographer recognizes that the print has been done either by him or according to his own standards. But a print is not like an etching, where the plate wears out. A negative doesn't wear out.
 Q. 
 Perhaps the only lead that photographers had was to imitate painters, and they still have to learn their own identity. 
 A. 
Yes. Why be embarrassed? We are not what you call "misfit painters." Photography is a way of expressing ourselves with another tool. That's all.
 Q. 
 Can we go back to something we were discussing earlier? What is it like to return to a country you have visited before? Is there a difference between the first time and when you return? 
 A. 
I like very much going back to a country after a while and seeing the differences, because you build up impressions, right or wrong, but always personal and vivid, by living in a country and working. You accumulate things and leave a gap, and you see the changes strongly when you've been away for a long time. And the evolution in a country is very interesting to measure with a camera.
But at the same time, I am not a political analyst or an economist. I don't know how to count. It's not that. I'm obsessed by one thing, the visual pleasure.
The greatest joy for me is geometry; that means a structure. You can't go shooting for structure, for shapes, for patterns and all this, but it is a sensuous pleasure, an intellectual pleasure, at the same time to have everything in the right place. It's a recognition of an order which is in front of you.
The difference between a good picture and a mediocre picture is a question of millimeters - small, small differences - but it's essential. I didn't think there is such a big difference between photographers. Very little difference. But it is that little difference that counts, maybe.
What is important for a photographer is involvement. It's not a propaganda means, photography, but it's a way of shouting what you feel. It's like the difference between a tract for propaganda and a novel. Well, the novel has to go through all the channel of the nerves, the imagination, and it's much more powerful than something you look at and throw away. If a theme is developed and goes into a novel, there is much more subtlety; it goes much deeper.
Poetry is the essence of everything, and it's through deep contact with reality and living fully that you reach poetry. Very often I see photographers cultivating the strangeness or awkwardness of a scene, thinking it is poetry. No. Poetry is two elements which are suddenly conflict - a spark between two elements. But it's given very seldom, and you can't look for it. It's like if you look for inspiration. No, it just comes by enriching yourself and living.
You have to forget yourself. You have to be yourself and you have to forget yourself so that the image comes much stronger - what you want by getting involved completely in what you are doing and not thinking. Ideas are very dangerous. You must think all the time, but when you photograph, you aren't trying to push a point or prove something. You don't prove anything. It comes by itself.
If I go to a place, it's not to record what is going on only. It's to try and have a picture which concretizes a situation in one glance and which has the strong relations of shapes. And when I go to a country, well, I'm hoping always to get that one picture about which people will say, "Ah, this is true. You felt it right."
That's why photography is important, in a way, because at the same time that it's a great pleasure getting the geometry together, it goes quite far in a testimony of our world, even without knowing what you are doing.
But as for me, I enjoy shooting a picture. Being present. It's a way of saying, "Yes! Yes! Yes!" It's like the last three words of Joyce's "Ulysses," which is one of the most tremendous works which have ever been written. It's "Yes, yes, yes." And photography is like that. It's yes, yes, yes. And there are no maybes. All the maybes should go to the trash, because it's an instant, it's a moment, it's there! And it's respect of it and tremendous enjoyment to say, "Yes!" Even if it's something you hate. Yes! It's an affirmation.
 Follow @ICPhotog and @nytimesphoto on Twitter. Lens is also on Facebook. 

        
Henri Cartier-Bresson: Living and Looking
        
Chim: A Vivid Retrospective of Europe
        
Elliott Erwitt's Best Picture? The Next One.
        
Following Weegee's Footsteps
        
Too Close for Comfort

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY (89%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (73%); INTERNET RETAILING (51%) A Photographic Memory; Henri Cartier-Bresson; International Center of Photography; Magnum Photos; Rachel Elizabeth Seed; Robert Capa; Sheila Turner-Seed; Cartier-Bresson, Henri; Turner-Seed, Sheila; Photography; Shoptalk

PERSON: Cartier-Bresson, Henri; Turner-Seed, Sheila

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2013



706 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 489 words

HEADLINE: Mediobanca to Sell Stakes

BYLINE: MARK SCOTT


HIGHLIGHT: The Italian bank announced plans to sell stakes in a number of companies for a combined $2 billion, as it looks to untangle itself from Italy&#8217;s struggling corporate sector. 

 BODY:
LONDON - Mediobanca announced plans on Friday to sell stakes in a number of Italian companies for a combined 1.5 billion euros, or $2 billion, as the financial giant looks to untangle itself from the country's struggling corporate sector. 
The move includes the sale of part of Mediobanca's stake in the Italian insurance company Assicurazioni Generali and the telecommunications firm Telecom Italia. The Italian bank will also write down assets worth roughly 400 million euros.
Mediobanca, which was founded during World War II and helped shepherd many of Italian's largest companies through the subsequent reconstruction, built up large stakes in these businesses, including the automaker Fiat, allowing the bank to voice its opinion on how the companies were run.
But in the face of Italy's economic troubles, Mediobanca is looking to shed its holdings to bolster its own profitability, and its actions may open the door to international investors looking for potential deals.
A sale of the stakes would be a major shift in the country's corporate sector after decades when Italian companies have held major stakes in each other. Mediobanca has sold its stake in Fiat, but it has remained a large shareholder in many of the country's largest companies.
These corporate cross-shareholdings have come under pressure during the financial crisis, as many of the Italian companies and banks have suffered slowdowns in their revenue because of dwindling domestic growth.
Other countries, including Greece and Spain, have faced similar problems after banks were forced to offload their shareholdings in local companies in a bid to improve their own profitability.
On Friday, Mediobanca said that it would reduce its holding in Generali to 10 percent from 13 percent by 2016, as well as reduce its stake in other Italian companies, including the local publisher RCS Mediagroup.
The bank said the divestitures would help refocus its operations on its investment and retail banking units and its wealth management operations. The strategic overhaul also will include an expansion into international markets, including emerging economies like Turkey and China. The bank said it expected to report a 200 million euro loss in the 12 months ending on June 30 after it had written down the value of some of its assets.
Shares in Mediobanca fell 4.2 percent in afternoon trading in Milan on Friday.
Despite a number of assets coming to the market, Europe's mergers and acquisitions market continues to trail that of the United States, whose rebounding economy has helped to reignite potential deal activity.
One small ray of light in Europe has been the Continent's telecoms and cable sector, which has seen a flurry of acquisitions, including the purchase by John C Malone's Liberty Global of the British cable operator Virgin Media for $16 billion this year.

        
Mediobanca's Stake Sales Are a Hopeful Sign for Italy
        
Telefonica Denies Talk of Takeover Bid From AT&T

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: DIVESTITURES (92%); EURO (89%); CABLE INDUSTRY (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); MERGERS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); EURO CRISIS (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); DEBT CRISIS (73%); EXTERNAL DEBT (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); RETAIL BANKING (71%); EMERGING MARKETS (70%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (69%); AUTOMAKERS (69%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (62%); WORLD WAR II (55%) Assicurazioni Generali SpA; European Sovereign Debt Crisis (2010- ); Italy; Mediobanca SpA; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; RCS MediaGroup SpA; Telecom Italia SpA; Telecom Italia SpA|TI|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Mergers & Acquisitions

COMPANY: MEDIOBANCA-BANCA DI CREDITO FINANZIARIO SPA (90%); FIAT SPA (83%); TELECOM ITALIA SPA (57%); ASSICURAZIONI GENERALI SPA (57%); RCS MEDIAGROUP SPA (53%); VIRGIN MEDIA INC (50%); LIBERTY GLOBAL PLC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Assicurazioni Generali SpA; Mediobanca SpA; RCS MediaGroup SpA; Telecom Italia SpA

TICKER: MB (BIT) (90%); FSOR (PAR) (83%); F (BIT) (83%); TIT (BIT) (57%); TI (NYSE) (57%); G (BIT) (57%); RCS (BIT) (53%); HPI1 (FRA) (53%); VMED (NASDAQ) (50%); LBTYA (NASDAQ) (50%) Telecom Italia SpA; TI; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (83%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (83%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (57%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (57%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (57%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (53%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (50%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: JOHN MALONE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (74%) ITALY (95%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (79%); TURKEY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GREECE (58%) Italy

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2013



707 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Lens)

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2013

SECTION: MULTIMEDIA

LENGTH: 1954 words

HEADLINE: Henri Cartier-Bresson: 'There Are No Maybes'

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: In 1971, Sheila Turner-Seed interviewed Henri Cartier-Bresson and other luminaries for a series of film strips that were lost until her daughter rediscovered them decades later. 

 BODY:
In 1971, Sheila Turner-Seed interviewed Henri Cartier-Bresson in his Paris studio for a film-strip series on photographers that she produced, with Cornell Capa, for Scholastic. After her death in 1979 at the age of 42, that interview, along with others she had conducted, sat like a time capsule in the archives of the International Center of Photography in New York.
That is, until 2011, when Ms. Turner-Seed's daughter, Rachel Seed, learned of their existence and went to I.C.P. to study the tapes. It was a profound experience for her, since she was 1 when her mother died and did not remember her voice.
Ms. Seed, herself a photographer, has been working on a personal documentary, "A Photographic Memory," about a daughter's search for the mother she never knew through their shared love of photography. She is raising money with a Kickstarter campaign. 
The second part of that interview, transcribed from tape by Sheila Turner-Seed, continues where we left off yesterday. It has been lightly edited. A DVD of the Cartier-Bresson interview, with his photos, is available from the International Center of Photography's online bookstore.
 Q. 
 Have you ever really been able to define for yourself when it is that you press the shutter? 
 A. 
It's a question of concentration. Concentrate, think, watch, look and, ah, like this, you are ready. But you never know the culminative point of something. So you're shooting. You say, "Yes. Yes. Maybe. Yes." But you shouldn't overshoot. It's like overeating, overdrinking. You have to eat, you have to drink. But over is too much. Because by the time you press, you arm the shutter once more, and maybe the picture was in between.
Very often, you don't have to see a photographer's work. Just by watching him in the street, you can see what kind of photographer he is. Discreet, tiptoes, fast or machine gun. Well, you don't shoot partridges with a machine gun. You choose one partridge, then the other partridge. Maybe the others are gone by then. But I see people wrrrr, like this with a motor. It's incredible, because they always shoot in the wrong moment.
 Q. 
 Can you bear to talk a bit about your equipment? 
 A. 
I am completely and have always been uninterested in the photographic process. I like the smallest camera possible, not those huge reflex cameras with all sorts of gadgets. When I am working, I have an M3 because it's quicker when I'm concentrating.
Henri Cartier-Bresson and Sheila Turner-Seed
"The greatest joy for me is geometry; that means a structure."
 Q. 
 Why the 50-millimeter lens? 
 A. 
It corresponds to a certain vision and at the same time has enough depth of focus, a thing you don't have in longer lenses. I worked with a 90. It cuts much of the foreground if you take a landscape, but if people are running at you, there is no depth of focus. The 35 is splendid when needed, but extremely difficult to use if you want precision in composition. There are too many elements, and something is always in the wrong place. It is a beautiful lens at times when needed by what you see. But very often it is used by people who want to shout. Because you have a distortion, you have somebody in the foreground and it gives an effect. But I don't like effects. There is something aggressive, and I don't like that. Because when you shout, it is usually because you are short of arguments.
If you have little equipment, people don't notice you. You don't come like a show-off. It seems like an embarrassment, someone who comes with big equipment.
And photo electric cells in a camera - I don't see why it is done. It is a laziness. During the day, I don't need a light meter. It is only when light changes very quickly at dusk or when I'm in another country, in the desert or in the snow. But I guess first, and then I check. It is good training.
 Q. 
 In some sense, you impose your own rules that are like disciplines for yourself, then. 
 A. 
For myself - I'm not speaking for others. I take my pleasure that way. Freedom for me is a strict frame, and inside that frame are all the variations possible. Maybe I'm classical. The French are like that. I can't help it!
Photography as I conceive it, well, it's a drawing - immediate sketch done with intuition and you can't correct it. If you have to correct it, it's the next picture. But life is very fluid. Well, sometimes the pictures disappear and there's nothing you can do. You can't tell the person, "Oh, please smile again. Do that gesture again." Life is once, forever.
 Q. 
 How do you feel about color photography? 
 A. 
It's disgusting. I hate it! I've done it only when I've been to countries where it was difficult to go and they said, "If you don't do color, we can't use your things." So it was a compromise, but I did it badly because I don't believe in it.
The reason is that you have been shooting what you see. But then there are the printing inks and all sorts of different things over which you have no control whatsoever. There is all the interference of heaps of people, and what has it got to do with true color?
 Q. 
 If the technical problems were solved and what you saw on the page would really be what you saw with your eyes, would you still object? 
 A. 
Yes, because nature gives us so much. You can't accept everything of nature. You have to select things. It'd rather do paintings, and it becomes an insoluble problem. Especially when it comes to reportage, color has no interest whatsoever except that people do it because it's money. It's always a money problem.
There are some very good young photographers. They want to do photographic essays and there is no market for it.
In 1946, when we started Magnum, the world had been separated by the war and there was a great curiosity from one country to know how the other was. People couldn't travel, and for us it was such a challenge to go and testify - I have seen this and I have seen that. There was a market. We didn't have to do industrial accounts and all that.
Magnum was the genius of Bob Capa, who had great invention. He was playing the horses and the money paid for the secretaries. I came back from the Orient and asked Capa for my money and he said, "Better take your camera and go work. I have taken your money because we were almost in bankruptcy."
I kept on working. Now it is a very big problem because there are hardly any magazines. No big magazine is going to send you to a country because everybody has been there. It's another world. But there are heaps of specialized magazines who are going to use your files. And you can make quite a decent living just by files. But it means you have to add pictures for years and years. For a young photographer to start is quite a problem nowadays.
Martine Franck/Magnum Photos Henri Cartier-Bresson with a photograph of his mother, Marthe Leverdier.
There are necessities of life, and everything is getting more expensive in a consumer society. So the danger is that photography might become very precious - "Oh, a very rare print." There's not a very real place for it. But what does it mean? That preciousness is a sickness.
Why do photographers start giving numbers to their prints? It's absurd. What do you do when the 20th print has been done? Do you swallow the negative? Do you shoot yourself? It's the gimmick of money.
I think a print should be signed. That means a photographer recognizes that the print has been done either by him or according to his own standards. But a print is not like an etching, where the plate wears out. A negative doesn't wear out.
 Q. 
 Perhaps the only lead that photographers had was to imitate painters, and they still have to learn their own identity. 
 A. 
Yes. Why be embarrassed? We are not what you call "misfit painters." Photography is a way of expressing ourselves with another tool. That's all.
 Q. 
 Can we go back to something we were discussing earlier? What is it like to return to a country you have visited before? Is there a difference between the first time and when you return? 
 A. 
I like very much going back to a country after a while and seeing the differences, because you build up impressions, right or wrong, but always personal and vivid, by living in a country and working. You accumulate things and leave a gap, and you see the changes strongly when you've been away for a long time. And the evolution in a country is very interesting to measure with a camera.
But at the same time, I am not a political analyst or an economist. I don't know how to count. It's not that. I'm obsessed by one thing, the visual pleasure.
The greatest joy for me is geometry; that means a structure. You can't go shooting for structure, for shapes, for patterns and all this, but it is a sensuous pleasure, an intellectual pleasure, at the same time to have everything in the right place. It's a recognition of an order which is in front of you.
The difference between a good picture and a mediocre picture is a question of millimeters - small, small differences - but it's essential. I didn't think there is such a big difference between photographers. Very little difference. But it is that little difference that counts, maybe.
What is important for a photographer is involvement. It's not a propaganda means, photography, but it's a way of shouting what you feel. It's like the difference between a tract for propaganda and a novel. Well, the novel has to go through all the channel of the nerves, the imagination, and it's much more powerful than something you look at and throw away. If a theme is developed and goes into a novel, there is much more subtlety; it goes much deeper.
Poetry is the essence of everything, and it's through deep contact with reality and living fully that you reach poetry. Very often I see photographers cultivating the strangeness or awkwardness of a scene, thinking it is poetry. No. Poetry is two elements which are suddenly conflict - a spark between two elements. But it's given very seldom, and you can't look for it. It's like if you look for inspiration. No, it just comes by enriching yourself and living.
You have to forget yourself. You have to be yourself and you have to forget yourself so that the image comes much stronger - what you want by getting involved completely in what you are doing and not thinking. Ideas are very dangerous. You must think all the time, but when you photograph, you aren't trying to push a point or prove something. You don't prove anything. It comes by itself.
If I go to a place, it's not to record what is going on only. It's to try and have a picture which concretizes a situation in one glance and which has the strong relations of shapes. And when I go to a country, well, I'm hoping always to get that one picture about which people will say, "Ah, this is true. You felt it right."
That's why photography is important, in a way, because at the same time that it's a great pleasure getting the geometry together, it goes quite far in a testimony of our world, even without knowing what you are doing.
But as for me, I enjoy shooting a picture. Being present. It's a way of saying, "Yes! Yes! Yes!" It's like the last three words of Joyce's "Ulysses," which is one of the most tremendous works which have ever been written. It's "Yes, yes, yes." And photography is like that. It's yes, yes, yes. And there are no maybes. All the maybes should go to the trash, because it's an instant, it's a moment, it's there! And it's respect of it and tremendous enjoyment to say, "Yes!" Even if it's something you hate. Yes! It's an affirmation.
 Follow @ICPhotog and @nytimesphoto on Twitter. Lens is also on Facebook. 

        
Henri Cartier-Bresson: Living and Looking
        
Chim: A Vivid Retrospective of Europe
        
Elliott Erwitt's Best Picture? The Next One.
        
Following Weegee's Footsteps
        
Too Close for Comfort

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY (89%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (73%); INTERNET RETAILING (51%) A Photographic Memory; Henri Cartier-Bresson; International Center of Photography; Magnum Photos; Rachel Elizabeth Seed; Robert Capa; Sheila Turner-Seed; Cartier-Bresson, Henri; Turner-Seed, Sheila; Photography; Shoptalk

PERSON: Cartier-Bresson, Henri; Turner-Seed, Sheila

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2013



708 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: Week in Review: Cracking Down on Consultants

BYLINE: ERIC OWLES


HIGHLIGHT: Regulator in New York sets tough bank fine. | Regulators are divided regarding consultants. | Consultants may face tighter rein from Albany. | Headhunter for the rich turned on them, says Andrew Ross Sorkin. 

 BODY:
Regulator in New York sets tough bank fine. | Regulators are divided regarding consultants. | Consultants may face tighter rein from Albany. | Headhunter for the rich turned on them, says Andrew Ross Sorkin.
A look back on our reporting of the past week's highs and lows in finance.
Mergers & Acquisitions 
 Sprint Beats Dish's Latest Bid for Clearwire | Sprint Nextel is hoping to end the fight for an embattled wireless network operator that nonetheless has become the object of a bidding war. DealBook »

        
 Dish Network Backs Off Bid to Buy Sprint | The pay-TV provider said that because of new conditions imposed by Sprint Nextel, it would focus on acquiring a stake in Clearwire, a smaller competitor. DealBook »
 Deal Professor: Google's Effort to Skirt Regulation May Invite More Scrutiny | Google may have pushed the boundaries of the law in its Waze deal, but the question is whether the government pushes back, says Steven M. Davidoff. DealBook »
Investment Banking »
 Regulator in New York Sets Tough Bank Fine | The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ reached a settlement with the top financial regulator for New York State over accusations that it had sent about $100 billion in tainted money through the United States. DealBook »
 Britain Prepares to Sell Its Stake in Lloyds and Weighs a Breakup of R.B.S. | Comments by George Osborne, the chancellor of the Exchequer, were the clearest sign yet of the government's approach to the two bailed-out banks. DealBook »
 Weak Bond Trading at Jefferies Prompts Wider Concern | The challenge for Wall Street firms is how to continue to generate fixed-income profits in this environment. DealBook »
 Ex-UBS Trader in London Is Charged With Fraud in Libor Case | Tom A.W. Hayes appeared in a court on eight charges of conspiracy to defraud in connection with the London interbank offered rate. DealBook »

        
 Britain's Top Fraud Office Aims to Add Bite to Its Bark | The director of the Serious Fraud Office plans to revive the agency's reputation with a criminal investigation into the rigging of the Libor. DealBook »
 DealBook Column: Headhunter for the Rich Turns on Them | A British recruiter who supplies domestic workers has filed lawsuits against the families of some of the most prominent names in finance, says Andrew Ross Sorkin. DealBook »
Private Equity »
 Private Equity Firm Tied to New York Pension Scandal Raises $7.7 Billion From Investors | Riverstone Holdings said that it raised its largest fund ever, four years after a settlement over its role in a "pay-to-play" pension fund inquiry. DealBook »
Hedge Funds »
 Sony Rejects Call to Divide Its Businesses | Kazuo Hirai rebuffed a renewed push by Daniel S. Loeb to break up Sony's sprawling empire but saying the company's board would study the matter. DealBook »
Legal/Regulatory »
 Criticism for Lack of Oversight on Bank Advisers | A warning that there was a risk to the economy in the lax oversight of firms that banks hire to help them comply with federal rules. DealBook »

        
 Regulators Are Divided Regarding Consultants | New York's chief overseer of financial services is moving to crack down on an industry whose power federal agencies rely on and appear to support. DealBook »
        
 Consultants May Face Tighter Rein in Albany | New York State's top financial regulator is said to be preparing to crack down on consultants hired by banks. DealBook »
 Ex-Chairman of the F.T.C. Is Set to Join Davis Polk | Jon Leibowitz is the latest among high-ranking government lawyers in Washington to assume a rich position in the private sector. DealBook »
Week in Verse »
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
 'Black Skinhead' | Markets are in turmoil and Benjamin Lawsky is on a tear. What's a financier to do, but crank up Kanye West and point the Maybach toward the Hamptons. YouTube »

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (79%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); MERGERS (77%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (76%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); BANK FAILURES (73%); SCANDALS (73%); PRIVATE EQUITY (72%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (72%); BONDS (72%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (71%); LITIGATION (71%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (71%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (71%); SECURITIES TRADING (70%); DIVESTITURES (69%); HOLDING COMPANIES (68%); CONSPIRACY (68%); BAILOUTS (67%); BOND MARKETS (64%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (62%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (61%); HEDGE FUNDS (60%); SUBSCRIPTION TELEVISION (55%); INTERBANK LENDING (50%) Week in Review

COMPANY: SPRINT NEXTEL CORP (94%); GOOGLE INC (83%); BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ LTD (69%); DISH NETWORK CORP (57%)

TICKER: S (NYSE) (94%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (83%); DISH (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (94%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (69%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (57%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE OSBORNE (52%); KAZUO HIRAI (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2013



709 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 651 words

HEADLINE: Ex-Enron Chief's Sentence Is Cut by 10 Years, to 14

BYLINE: PETER LATTMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Jeffrey Skilling, a former top leader at the failed energy company, agreed to pay $42 million to victims of the fraud, and refrain from any further litigation in his case. 

 BODY:
The prison sentence of Jeffrey K. Skilling, the former chief executive of Enron who spearheaded the pervasive fraud that destroyed the energy company, was reduced by 10 years on Friday after a federal judge approved a deal between his lawyers and prosecutors.
Judge Simeon T. Lake III of Federal District Court in Houston, who oversaw Mr. Skilling's trial in 2006, signed off on an agreement that will decrease his 24-year sentence to 14 years. 
The reduction was driven in part by a 2009 appeals court ruling that ordered a recalculation of Mr. Skilling's sentence because of a mistake made by the judge in interpreting the federal sentencing guidelines.
Mr. Skilling, 59, who has been serving his sentence at a federal prison in Colorado, appeared in court on Friday wearing an olive-drab prison uniform and a salt-and-pepper beard, and looking bulkier than he did during his days as a corporate chieftain.
He will now exit prison as early as 2017. There is no parole in the federal criminal justice system, but Mr. Skilling will most likely receive the standard 15 percent sentence reduction for good behavior and a one-year reduction for completing an alcohol-abuse treatment program.
"We are relieved that Jeff can now look forward a day when he can come home to his family and friends," said Daniel M. Petrocelli, Mr. Skilling's lead lawyer.
In exchange for his reduced sentence, Mr. Skilling gave up about $42 million, all of which will be distributed to victims of Enron's fraud. He also agreed not to pursue any further legal appeals, including a claim that would have accused the prosecution team of misconduct.
"The sentence handed down today ends years of litigation, imposes significant punishment upon the defendant and precludes him from ever challenging his conviction or sentence," Mythili Raman, the acting assistant attorney general, said in a statement.
Several Enron victims wrote letters to the court protesting Mr. Skilling's proposed reduced sentence. On Friday, Andrew Stoltmann, a lawyer who represented several victims, criticized the Justice Department for agreeing to the reduction and said it was unacceptable coming on the heels of the lack of prosecutions arising out of the financial crisis.
"By entering into this early release agreement, a clear message will be sent to corporate C.E.O.'s that if you get caught with the hand in the cookie jar, you will get little more than a slap on the wrist," Mr. Stoltmann said.
Mr. Skilling's legal team mounted a zealous appeal, seeking to overturn his conviction on a variety of legal grounds. Last year, they said that Mr. Skilling would seek a new trial based on recently discovered evidence.
The case also made its way to the Supreme Court, which in 2010 questioned the use of the "theft of honest services" law that helped convict Mr. Skilling, finding it unconstitutionally vague. But a federal appeals court ruled that there was overwhelming evidence of his guilt, so his conviction was not tainted by the use of that legal theory.
Mr. Skilling, a former consultant at McKinsey & Company, joined Enron in 1990 and led its transformation from a sleepy pipeline operator to a global energy-trading colossus. He also played a central role in the accounting schemes that masked its debts and weak finances from shareholders and regulators.
The fall of Enron, which at its peak was one of the country's most admired businesses, cost shareholders billions of dollars and its employees their retirement savings. Its demise ushered in a wave of prosecutions that rooted out accounting fraud at once-highflying companies like WorldCom, HealthSouth and Adelphia Communications.
Prosecutors tried Mr. Skilling alongside Kenneth L. Lay, Enron's chairman, who was also found guilty in the fraud. Mr. Lay died about a month after the trial, and his conviction was vacated.
During Mr. Skilling's time in prison, his parents and his 20-year-old son have died.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SENTENCING (93%); JAIL SENTENCING (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); PRISONS (90%); JUDGES (90%); LAWYERS (89%); APPEALS (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); MISCONDUCT (78%); SENTENCING GUIDELINES (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); CRIMINAL LAW (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); LARCENY & THEFT (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PAROLE (78%); APPEALS COURTS (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (77%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (77%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (66%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (51%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT (51%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%) Energy; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2013



710 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: Action on Expanded Gambling as Albany's Legislative Session Sputters to End

BYLINE: By THOMAS KAPLAN

 BODY:
ALBANY -- Lawmakers agreed on Friday night to ask voters to authorize expanded casino gambling across New York State, but planned to end their annual legislative session without approving new measures to combat corruption in the capital.
The State Senate and the Assembly also could not reach an agreement on measures addressing women's rights, including a contentious proposal to enshrine abortion rights in state law that had been embraced by Democrats but steadfastly opposed by Republicans.
This year's session began in January with a burst of activity -- the passage of strict new gun laws -- but ended with more of a thud. 
The Senate was stalled for more than six hours on Friday as lawmakers huddled to decide how to proceed on the abortion measure and other issues.
Even before Friday, the Legislature had already largely given up enacting legislation in response to the corruption scandals that swept through Albany this year. Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo had recommended a package of anti-corruption measures, and government reform groups pressed to enact public financing for campaigns.
Without any action to address corruption, Mr. Cuomo said Friday that within the next week he would appoint an investigatory commission to scrutinize campaign fund-raising and possible legislative corruption.
''I feel that's a clearer, cleaner resolution to restore public trust,'' the governor said on ''The Capitol Pressroom,'' a public radio program.
The subject of the most intense discussion at the Capitol on Friday was the fate of a package of women's rights measures. Most of it was not controversial, but it included a contested abortion provision, which Mr. Cuomo said would codify in state law the Supreme Court's decision in Roe v. Wade.
The Democrat-controlled Assembly approved the 10-point package on Thursday. But the Senate, which is controlled by a coalition of Republicans and independent Democrats, did not consider the legislation because Republicans objected to the abortion provision.
Under fire from women's groups, the leader of the independent Democrats, Senator Jeffrey D. Klein of the Bronx, sought to attach the abortion proposal to a health care bill, but fell one vote short of success. ''It was important that women got to know who's pro-choice and who's not in the State Senate,'' Mr. Klein said, ''and I think we achieved that.''
Later Friday, after the amendment failed, the Senate approved the nine other parts of the package as individual bills. But unless the two chambers pass the same legislation in the same form, it cannot become law, and Assembly Democrats were adamant that they would not hold votes on the individual measures that passed the Senate.
The abortion dispute overshadowed the debate on expanding casino gambling.
Lawmakers voted for a November referendum on a proposal to amend the state's Constitution to authorize up to seven Las Vegas-style casinos. However, they also approved legislation that would allow only four of those casinos to be developed in the next seven years, in three regions: the Catskills, the Albany area and the Southern Tier.
The legislative debate over gambling offered a preview of the public campaign that lies ahead both for advocates of gambling, who see it as an economic development tool for upstate, and for opponents, who have moral or public policy qualms. Assemblyman Andy Goodell, a Republican from Chautauqua County, criticized the casino expansion, calling it ''a form of taxation which preys often on the poor and those who can least afford it.''
Also on Friday, the Assembly passed a bill to authorize a pilot program for using speed-tracking cameras in New York City, but it was not clear if the Senate would take up the measure. It was also not known if the Senate would take up a measure to allow the Hudson River Park Trust to sell air rights, which the Assembly approved Thursday.
The Senate did agree to tweak the state's new gun control measure to allow retired law enforcement officers to keep high-capacity firearms. The Assembly had approved the change in May, and Mr. Cuomo said Friday that he would sign the measure.
Lawmakers also approved an overhaul of the Long Island Power Authority, and a proposal by Mr. Cuomo to create tax-free zones on college campuses for new and expanding businesses.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORRUPTION (90%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); APPROVALS (89%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (89%); GAMING (89%); ABORTION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CASINOS (89%); WOMEN (89%); REFERENDUMS (78%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); FUNDRAISING (74%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); SCANDALS (72%); GUN CONTROL (71%); APPOINTMENTS (68%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (67%); PUBLIC RADIO (66%); SUPREME COURTS (50%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (50%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2013



711 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: China Banks Lend Again, Easing Fear On Credit

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA; Neil Gough contributed reporting from Hong Kong.

 BODY:
BEIJING -- China's credit squeeze eased Friday after lending resumed among banks and financial institutions that had been desperately seeking cash through the week in the interbank market.
China's central government made no official announcement on the situation, and it remained unclear whether policy makers had intervened, but short-term interest rates fell sharply Friday from the day before, when they had reached some of the highest levels in a decade.
Still, rates for Chinese institutions seeking interbank financing on Friday were substantially higher than they had been a few weeks ago. 
Financial experts said they expected the higher interest rates to persist for some time because the Chinese government appeared to have abandoned its longstanding policy of responding to any hint of an economic slowdown by expanding credit. Analysts say the government is holding back because it is determined to rein in excess credit expansion and avert a financial crisis that could result from years of poor lending practices and overinvestment. There are also hints that a huge shadow banking operation in China could be masking more serious financial risk-taking.
''The government at the moment wants to signal, we're working on reform; we're not interested in short-term stimulus, like China did in the past,'' said Louis Kuijs, the chief China economist at the Royal Bank of Scotland.
The government's reluctance to increase bank liquidity is troubling investors because of concerns that China's economy is weakening much faster than expected.
Economists in China cut their growth forecasts sharply in the last week, though projections remain robust at 7 percent. Prices of Chinese shares plunged on the Shanghai and Shenzhen stock markets, ending one of the worst weeks in four years.
Joe Zhang, a longtime banker and the author of ''Inside China's Shadow Banking: The Next Subprime Crisis?,'' said the apparent decision by the central bank to discipline banks by allowing rates to rise this past week was necessary.
''Effectively, they're telling commercial banks to go and sort out their problems,'' Mr. Zhang said by telephone on Friday. ''The banks have lent out too much money. And what happens over time? You go from prime to subprime to silly loans. This is what happened with the U.S. subprime crisis. Banks start lending to bad projects. We've been too reckless.''
Determined to shore up defenses in a financial system that now underlies the world's second-largest economy after the United States, China's top leaders are slowing the flow of the fuel that has helped foster many of the risks: credit from state-run banks.
For much of the last decade, when the economy has slowed, Beijing has pressed state-owned banks to lend more aggressively.
But when interbank lending tightened this month -- after aggressive lending early in the year -- the central bank refrained from adding liquidity to the market, which would have kept short-term interest rates low.
As credit markets began to freeze up and mistrust among banks spread, rumors circulated of defaults. Late Thursday, the Bank of China, one of the country's biggest lenders, was forced to issue a statement on its Web site denying local news reports that it had defaulted on interbank payments.
By late Friday, the markets had settled somewhat. The overnight lending rate between banks had dropped to 8.49 percent, down from a record-high fixing of 13.44 percent on Thursday, but still much higher than last month's levels of less than 4 percent.
The situation remains volatile. Another benchmark rate for bank-to-bank borrowing costs, the seven-day repurchase rate, opened Friday at 8.1 percent, briefly soared as high as 25 percent and closed at 5.5 percent.
''Persistent tight liquidity conditions in China's financial sector could constrain the ability of some banks to meet upcoming obligations on maturing wealth management products on a timely basis,'' the credit ratings agency Fitch Ratings said in a report. Wealth management products are instruments sold to investors through banks and trust funds but do not appear on the financial companies' balance sheets.
Referring to wealth management products, Fitch went on: ''Issuance of new products, and borrowing from the interbank market, are among the most common sources of repayment for maturing W.M.P.'s, and the recent interbank liquidity shortage complicates both.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Counting renminbi at a bank in Huaibei, Anhui Province. China's leaders are slowing the flow of credit from state-run banks. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (88%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (78%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (78%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CREDIT REGULATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); INTERBANK LENDING (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%)

COMPANY: ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (67%)

TICKER: RBS (NYSE) (67%); RBS (LSE) (67%); RBS (AMS) (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (67%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%); EAST CHINA (90%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); ANHUI, CHINA (58%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2013



712 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1303 words

HEADLINE: In California, a Push For Immigrant Health

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MEDINA

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- When Congress passed President Obama's health care overhaul, a critical compromise provision was that immigrants living in the United States illegally would not be allowed access to publicly subsidized health insurance. Even now, as lawmakers in Washington are debating an overhaul of immigration laws, leaders from both parties are arguing that no federal money should be spent on health care for immigrants on their way to obtaining citizenship.
But not in California, where there are an estimated 2.6 million illegal immigrants. Here, public health officials, elected representatives and advocacy groups are going in the opposite direction, trying to cobble together ways to provide preventive care for such immigrants, who are expected to make up the largest share of the remaining uninsured once the state's expanded Medicaid program takes full effect.
By many measures, California, with roughly seven million people currently uninsured, more than any other state, is taking the lead in aggressively rolling out changes before January, when most Americans will be required by law to have medical coverage or pay a penalty, the so-called universal mandate. While other states are resisting efforts to expand Medicaid, California has already begun public campaigns to encourage more residents to enroll in subsidized health plans. 
But in counties with large immigrant populations like Los Angeles, officials say that not including immigrants in coverage, regardless of their legal status, will only cost local government more in the long run. So they are lobbying state and federal officials to find ways to pay for preventive health care, rather than rely on emergency rooms to care for them.
The push shows how dramatically the debate around immigration has shifted in California, which approved a state ballot initiative 20 years ago that prohibited illegal immigrants from receiving any kind of public benefit, including health care. Now, public opinion polls show that the vast majority of the state's residents approve granting illegal immigrants a path to citizenship, though they are opposed to offering them the same benefits for public services as legal residents.
Granting any kind of access to health care for immigrants is becoming a focal point in the current Congressional debate, as many Republicans have said they would refuse to support change if it included providing care for immigrants who have been living in the country illegally. Representative Raúl R. Labrador of Idaho, for instance, walked out of bipartisan negotiations in the House, arguing that illegal immigrants should be denied emergency room care and that unpaid medical bills should become a deportable offense.
In the current system, illegal immigrants in California rely on a patchwork of community clinics, whose services and availability vary across the state. Few offer comprehensive coverage, and those that do often struggle to find government money to pay for the services they offer. Some advocates worry that as more people get insurance or enroll in Medicaid, the clinics will be inundated with new patients and forced to squeeze out anyone -- including illegal immigrants -- who cannot pay for care.
Nowhere is this issue more pressing than in California, which has more illegal immigrants than any other state.
''California has really acknowledged that all immigrants who are here are part of our present and our future, so we need them to be healthy and included in any effort we make to expand health care,'' said Daniel Zingale, a senior vice president with California Endowment, a health care foundation leading the charge to persuade the state to pay for comprehensive care for all immigrants. County leaders, immigrant advocates and labor unions have formed an unlikely alliance to press for change.
''It doesn't take much to figure out these people will be driving our economy in the decades to come, so it's in our interest to keep them healthy,'' he said.
While the state budget does not explicitly earmark any money to pay for health care for illegal immigrants, it also does not forbid counties from using state money to do so, something Mr. Zingale and others count as a victory.
This year, the California Endowment began running television advertisements showing young illegal immigrants pleading for health care. To Mr. Zingale's surprise, the foundation faced almost no public outcry.
''A few years ago, this would have been unimaginable, even having this conversation,'' he said. ''But we've seen a total sea change in the way we think about health care for all and immigration. I think in the end, it's inevitable that we're going to come down on the side of inclusion broadly.''
According to estimates from the University of California, Los Angeles, the state will have about two million to three million people left uninsured after the changes in health care law are fully put in place. While that number includes others who are ineligible for Medicaid and are unlikely to enroll in the state's health care insurance marketplace, most of the uninsured are expected to be illegal immigrants.
By federal law, emergency rooms are expected to treat anyone who walks in, regardless of legal status, insurance or ability to pay. For decades, that has often meant that immigrants living in the country illegally seek medical attention only in emergencies, which many say ends up costing more.
When the federal government began offering subsidies for the early expansion of Medicaid, Los Angeles and other counties began to seek out more residents to enroll in low-income health programs, using money from the state to pay for it.
Now, many here believe that some kind of change in federal immigration law is inevitable, but they say the current plan to prohibit immigrants on a path to citizenship from receiving any federal subsidy for care would simply force local governments to take up the cost.
''I'm worried that if the federal government isn't willing to pay, the question will become, Why should the counties pay?'' said Dr. Mitchell H. Katz, the director of the Los Angeles County Department of Health Services.
Don Knabe, a Los Angeles County supervisor, said the debate over immigration and health care in Washington had often ignored the realities on the ground.
''We're the ones who have to deal with the people who show up,'' said Mr. Knabe, a Republican. ''We can't just shut our doors, which sometimes you might like to do. You don't want millions of sick people walking around.''
A Harvard Medical School study released last month showed that immigrants helped pay for the growing costs of Medicare because they put in more money than they cost the system. And a study released this month by researchers at the University of Nebraska found that immigrants living in the country illegally accounted for less health care spending than both legal immigrants and citizens.
''We know that recent immigrants and undocumented tend to be cheaper and healthier than the general population,'' said Jim P. Stimpson, the lead author of the study. ''There's a selection effect because people really have to have a lot of gumption and motivation to come here without authorization, and they're often coming here for manual labor jobs.''
California is likely to be the first to grapple with a problem other states may face in the coming years. Diana Dooley, California's secretary of health and human services, said that while the administration was not philosophically opposed to offering preventive care for illegal immigrants, Gov. Jerry Brown and other state leaders were reluctant to pay for more services.
''We just can't do everything everyone wants us to do,'' Ms. Dooley said. ''We're already in the middle of a very ambitious undertaking, so it's strictly a question of how much we can do and how fast.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Patients waited at the Saban Free Clinic in Los Angeles. Illegal immigrants in California rely on community clinics for care. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); MEDICAID (90%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); LOBBYING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (78%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); COMMUNITY HEALTH PROGRAMS (75%); DEPORTATION (73%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (71%); BALLOTS (71%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (60%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (58%); POLLS & SURVEYS (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2013



713 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 666 words

HEADLINE: Ex-Enron Chief's Sentence Is Cut by 10 Years, to 14

BYLINE: By PETER LATTMAN

 BODY:
The prison sentence of Jeffrey K. Skilling, the former chief executive of Enron who spearheaded the pervasive fraud that destroyed the energy company, was reduced by 10 years on Friday after a federal judge approved a deal between his lawyers and prosecutors.
Judge Simeon T. Lake III of Federal District Court in Houston, who oversaw Mr. Skilling's trial in 2006, signed off on an agreement that will decrease his 24-year sentence to 14 years. 
The reduction was driven in part by a 2009 appeals court ruling that ordered a recalculation of Mr. Skilling's sentence because of a mistake made by the judge in interpreting the federal sentencing guidelines.
Mr. Skilling, 59, who has been serving his sentence at a federal prison in Colorado, appeared in court on Friday wearing an olive-drab prison uniform and a salt-and-pepper beard, and looking bulkier than he did during his days as a corporate chieftain.
He will now exit prison as early as 2017. There is no parole in the federal criminal justice system, but Mr. Skilling will most likely receive the standard 15 percent sentence reduction for good behavior and a one-year reduction for completing an alcohol-abuse treatment program.
''We are relieved that Jeff can now look forward a day when he can come home to his family and friends,'' said Daniel M. Petrocelli, Mr. Skilling's lead lawyer.
In exchange for his reduced sentence, Mr. Skilling gave up about $42 million, all of which will be distributed to victims of Enron's fraud. He also agreed not to pursue any further legal appeals, including a claim that would have accused the prosecution team of misconduct.
''The sentence handed down today ends years of litigation, imposes significant punishment upon the defendant and precludes him from ever challenging his conviction or sentence,'' Mythili Raman, the acting assistant attorney general, said in a statement.
Several Enron victims wrote letters to the court protesting Mr. Skilling's proposed reduced sentence. On Friday, Andrew Stoltmann, a lawyer who represented several victims, criticized the Justice Department for agreeing to the reduction and said it was unacceptable coming on the heels of the lack of prosecutions arising out of the financial crisis.
''By entering into this early release agreement, a clear message will be sent to corporate C.E.O.'s that if you get caught with the hand in the cookie jar, you will get little more than a slap on the wrist,'' Mr. Stoltmann said.
Mr. Skilling's legal team mounted a zealous appeal, seeking to overturn his conviction on a variety of legal grounds. Last year, they said that Mr. Skilling would seek a new trial based on recently discovered evidence.
The case also made its way to the Supreme Court, which in 2010 questioned the use of the ''theft of honest services'' law that helped convict Mr. Skilling, finding it unconstitutionally vague. But a federal appeals court ruled that there was overwhelming evidence of his guilt, so his conviction was not tainted by the use of that legal theory.
Mr. Skilling, a former consultant at McKinsey & Company, joined Enron in 1990 and led its transformation from a sleepy pipeline operator to a global energy-trading colossus. He also played a central role in the accounting schemes that masked its debts and weak finances from shareholders and regulators.
The fall of Enron, which at its peak was one of the country's most admired businesses, cost shareholders billions of dollars and its employees their retirement savings. Its demise ushered in a wave of prosecutions that rooted out accounting fraud at once-highflying companies like WorldCom, HealthSouth and Adelphia Communications.
Prosecutors tried Mr. Skilling alongside Kenneth L. Lay, Enron's chairman, who was also found guilty in the fraud. Mr. Lay died about a month after the trial, and his conviction was vacated.
During Mr. Skilling's time in prison, his parents and his 20-year-old son have died.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jeffrey Skilling agreed to pay $42 million to his victims. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MELISSA PHILLIP/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SENTENCING (92%); JAIL SENTENCING (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); PRISONS (90%); JUDGES (90%); LAWYERS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); APPEALS (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); MISCONDUCT (78%); SENTENCING GUIDELINES (78%); CRIMINAL LAW (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); LARCENY & THEFT (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PAROLE (78%); APPEALS COURTS (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (77%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (77%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (66%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (51%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT (51%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%)

ORGANIZATION: US SENTENCING COMMISSION (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2013



714 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 643 words

HEADLINE: Sam Farber, 88, Creator of Oxo Hand-Friendly Kitchen Tools

BYLINE: By MARGALIT FOX

 BODY:
Sam Farber, who was spurred by a fiend in the form of a vegetable peeler to start Oxo, the housewares manufacturer whose ergonomic rubber handles grace its kitchen utensils in many homes, died on Sunday in East Meadow, N.Y. He was 88.
The cause was complications of a recent fall, his son John said. 
Oxo took root in the late 1980s, when Mr. Farber, ostensibly retired, and his wife, Betsey, were making an apple tart in their rented home in the south of France. Preparing the apples, Ms. Farber, who has mild arthritis in her hands, was exasperated by their unwieldy peeler, which she found painful to use.
Mr. Farber knew housewares -- he had founded Copco, a maker of brightly colored enameled cast-iron cookware, in 1960 and run the company before selling it in 1982. He immediately discerned a gap in the market: kitchen devices that were as comfortable as they were functional, designed not only for cooks with hand problems but for all cooks.
With John Farber, the couple founded Oxo in Manhattan soon afterward. (Sam Farber chose the name for its backward, upside-down and vertical graphic symmetry.) Enlisting Smart Design, a New York industrial design concern, they created Oxo's Good Grips line of kitchen tools.
Made with a spare, minimalist aesthetic in mind, the tools sported what would become the line's distinctive hallmark: fat black handles of a soft plastic known as Santoprene, shaped and angled to be easy on the hand.
The line was unveiled in 1990 at the Gourmet Products Show in San Francisco. Though its prices left some commercial buyers skeptical at first -- a Good Grips potato peeler cost about $6, compared with about $2 for a conventional peeler -- it soon proved a hit with consumers.
The company's products have won many design awards and are ubiquitous today in hardware and housewares stores and in chain retailers like Target and Kmart.
Mr. Farber sold Oxo to the General Housewares Corporation in 1992. His later ventures included creating a line of kitchenware with his son John for the celebrity chef Mario Batali.
Samuel Farber was born in Manhattan on Nov. 16, 1924, and reared in Yonkers. Pots and pans were in his pedigree: an uncle, Simon Farber, founded the cookware maker Farberware on the Lower East Side of Manhattan in 1900. His father, Louis, helped found Farber Brothers, makers of glass and silver-plated serving ware.
During World War II, Mr. Farber served with the Army Air Forces in Turkey and North Africa. He earned a bachelor's degree in economics from Harvard in 1946 and later joined his father's business.
Mr. Farber, who lectured frequently about industrial design and received many awards in the field, was also a major collector of outsider art, including work by Henry Darger and Martín Ramírez.
As a board member of the American Folk Art Museum in New York, he helped secure the architectural firm Tod Williams, Billie Tsien & Associates to design the museum's former home on West 53rd Street between Fifth and Sixth Avenues.
Opened in 2001 and widely praised by critics, the building is now owned by its neighbor, the Museum of Modern Art.
Mr. Farber's first marriage, to Joan Levine, ended in divorce. In addition to his wife, the former Betsey Wells Kriegsman, whom he married in 1985, survivors include two sons from his first marriage, John and Thomas; two stepchildren, Mark Kriegsman and Sue Kriegsman; four granddaughters; and three step-granddaughters.
A longtime resident of Manhattan, Mr. Farber lived most recently in Lexington, Mass.
Today, Oxo is owned by Helen of Troy, a maker of personal care products. Its Good Grips line now comprises hundreds of items, including cleaning, gardening and barbecue tools.
All for the want of a painless peeler a quarter-century ago.
''It's hard to think of a vegetable peeler as radical,'' Mr. Farber told The Los Angeles Times in 2000. ''But I guess it was.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sam Farber came up with the idea for Oxo after watching his wife, Betsey, using an apple peeler with her arthritic hands. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OXO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); HOUSEWARES & FURNISHINGS MFG (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (78%); FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (78%); RETAILERS (78%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (67%); WAR & CONFLICT (66%); AWARDS & PRIZES (62%); CELEBRITIES (62%); WORLD WAR II (60%); ARMED FORCES (60%); AIR FORCES (60%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (60%)

COMPANY: GENERAL HOUSEWARES CORP (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331524 ALUMINUM FOUNDRIES (EXCEPT DIE-CASTING) (63%); SIC3365 ALUMINUM FOUNDRIES (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (90%); TURKEY (70%); FRANCE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2013



715 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 708 words

HEADLINE: Farmers Say Defeat of House Bill Complicates Planning for Planting Season

BYLINE: By RON NIXON

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- On Thursday afternoon, staff members at the Farm Bureau, the country's largest agriculture trade group, were putting the final touches on a news release congratulating House members for passing a farm bill. But as more and more members cast their votes, the trade group realized that the bill was going to go down in defeat.
The failure of the House to pass a new five-year farm bill has blindsided the agriculture industry. The leaders of several trade groups said they had waited nearly three years for a farm bill and had been disappointed as the legislation was held up by partisan politics. 
Many farm programs, including direct payments and crop insurance, will remain in place through Sept. 30, thanks to an extension measure passed by Congress to avoid the ''fiscal cliff'' this year. But several farmers, ranchers and dairy producers said that the failure of the farm bill had left them unable to plan as the planting season approached and that some programs, like disaster assistance for livestock producers, remained unfinanced.
''The biggest thing is that it creates uncertainty, the one thing you can't have in this business,'' said Danny Murphy, a soybean farmer from Canton, Miss., who is the president of the American Soybean Association. ''The lack of a farm bill makes it hard for us to get loans or buy equipment because we don't know what price support programs we are going to be operating under. Banks don't like that.''
Mr. Murphy said that most support and subsidy programs for corn, soybeans and other crops -- which provide credit to farmers, subsidies for water conservation and crop insurance -- run though the end of 2013, even after the extension expires, because farm programs are financed through a crop year, not on fiscal years. ''But we want something done,'' he said. ''They can't keep kicking this can down the road.''
Some industries face a more immediate effect from the defeat of the bill. Producers of cattle and other livestock will have to go almost another year without a disaster insurance program that helps them after droughts and other weather-related disasters. That program expired in 2011.
Last year, during the worst drought in 50 years, producers were forced to kill thousands of cows and other livestock as hay and water supplies dwindled. In the meantime, feed costs skyrocketed. The House and Senate farm bills would have restored financing for the disaster relief program.
Livestock producers say they face an uncertain future. ''This is really a defeat for us, since we were counting on Congress doing something to help the thousands of cattle producers who suffered from the drought,'' said Cristina Llorens, the executive director of legislative affairs at the National Beef Cattlemen's Association.
Ms. Llorens said 70 percent of cattle producers were affected by the drought. ''It's really had a devastating effect on our industry,'' she said. ''Our herds are the smallest since World War II. It's going to take us years to rebuild.''
Milk producers say their situation is less dire, but the inability of Congress to pass a farm bill could have an effect on the industry if the current farm law is not extended past Sept. 30.
Chris Galen, a spokesman for the National Milk Producers Federation, which represents more than 32,000 dairy farmers, said the first program to go would be the Milk Income Loss Contract Program, which compensates dairy producers when domestic milk prices fall below a specified level. Mr. Galen said the industry did not expect to receive payments under the program this year because prices had been stable. ''But it's still a few months before the end of the fiscal year, so you just don't know,'' he said.
Mr. Galen said that a big worry for milk producers was that Congress would allow the current farm law to expire after September, which would cause farm programs to follow an antiquated 1949 law that forces Washington to buy milk at wildly inflated prices, creating higher prices for dairy products. Because of adjustments for inflation and other technical formulas, the government would be forced by law to buy milk at about twice the current market prices to maintain a stable market.
''That would be really bad for us and our customers,'' Mr. Galen said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Stacks of paperwork awaited members of the House Agriculture Committee as it met last month to consider the farm bill. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. SCOTT APPLEWHITE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURAL PRICES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); ANIMAL FARMING & BREEDING (89%); DROUGHT (89%); SOYBEAN FARMING (89%); AGRICULTURE (89%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (89%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); AGRICULTURAL INSURANCE (89%); CROP INSURANCE (88%); NATURAL DISASTERS (87%); DISASTER RELIEF (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); CATASTROPHE REINSURANCE (74%); POLITICS (74%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (73%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (71%); LIVESTOCK FEED (68%); WEATHER (67%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN SOYBEAN ASSOCIATION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2013



716 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1270 words

HEADLINE: As Hezbollah Fights in Syria, Life Changes in a Lebanese Border Town

BYLINE: By ANNE BARNARD; Hwaida Saad contributed reporting.

 BODY:
HERMEL, Lebanon -- The procession was small as Hezbollah funerals go, just a few hundred people winding past wind-tossed olive trees through this remote Bekaa Valley village. Still, the mourners honored the fighter killed in Syria with the usual solemn choreography: the coffin draped with a flag, the uniformed Boy Scouts bearing his portrait, the women carrying babies and wreaths of roses.
But to the traditional prayers and chants -- praising the leaders of Iran and Hezbollah, denouncing Israel and America -- the mourners added a new barb, for the gunmen battling the Syrian government who, they said, had killed him: ''Death to the Free Army.''
The funeral on Wednesday at once encapsulated Hezbollah's cohesion and the new uncertainties and anxieties its followers face as it fights a new kind of war, more intimate and ambiguous than the group's founding conflict with Israel. 
Hezbollah's increasingly open military intervention in Syria, against fellow Arab Muslims, is framed by its followers here in the northern Bekaa Valley less as a galvanizing mission than a regrettable necessity.
''We are fighting with them, but we dislike this fighting,'' one resident, a man who accompanied journalists to the funeral and asked to be identified as a Hezbollah supporter, said at the party's headquarters after the ceremony.
The fighting has unraveled many of the ties that once linked Hermel to its neighbors. It has left many Shiite Muslims in Hermel afraid to visit nearby Sunni villages in Lebanon and Syria, cutting them off from jobs, friends and business dealings. Soldiers now check cars entering the village, fearing bombs. A new wariness has crept up between some Syrian workers and their employers here.
''Unfortunately, we don't know who our enemy is today,'' one villager, Abu Hassan, said as the family of the fighter, a young father with a wispy beard named Ahmed Awad, crowded, some weeping, around the grave.
''It's as if you take the fight against Israel and you bring it instead into your own house,'' the Hezbollah supporter said. ''But honestly,'' he added, referring to Syrian rebels and the foreign radicals fighting with them, ''it was them who brought it into the house.''
Nearly everyone interviewed during three recent days in Hermel said that Hezbollah, the Shiite Muslim militant group and political party that holds sway in this mostly Shiite village, had no choice but to fight alongside its Syrian ally, President Bashar al-Assad, against an uprising increasingly influenced by Sunni extremists. Some Sunni rebel groups have denounced Shiites as apostates, killed them and destroyed their shrines.
Yet the very view from the grave site in Hermel was a reminder of why Hezbollah's followers here express a degree of pain over the Syrian fight.
Below the hillside cemetery stretched the mountains and apricot orchards along the border with Syria, lands where the Shiites of Hermel have long shared deep ties -- of commerce, of kinship -- with Lebanese and Syrian Sunnis. Many ties remained even as some Sunnis joined or supported the uprising. Local Hezbollah leaders and supporters met with Sunni sheiks, trying to keep the area calm.
But as Hezbollah poured fighters across the border last month to help the Syrian Army retake the nearby town of Qusayr -- its white buildings, where Hermel residents used to shop, visible in the distance from the cemetery -- rebels increasingly clashed directly with Hezbollah and attacked its civilian areas in Lebanon. Hermel has lost four residents to rocket attacks from Syrian rebels, and about seven Hezbollah fighters, the mayor, Mustafa Taha, said.
Residents fear worse. An obstetrician from Hermel recently got a call from her boss at a clinic in Arsal telling her it was unsafe for her to come to work anymore.
Her husband, a Shiite member of the secular Syrian Social Nationalist Party, said he was concerned about the growing religious fervor on both sides. ''Marx was right,'' he said. ''Religion is terrible for society.'' But he said he accepted the protection of Hezbollah, saying he prefers its religiosity to ''fanaticism'' on the other side.
The economic problems that began when rebels seized border villages and gunmen started kidnapping travelers have worsened: lucrative fuel smuggling has dropped off. The fish farms along the gushing Orontes River have lost most of their business, which was with Syria. The restaurants there stand empty, their umbrellas advertising Lebanese beer unopened. Apricots and apples go unharvested.
Watching the funeral, Abu Hassan, who gave only a nickname to protect his security, said it might have been ''a mistake'' to fight Syrians, but added, ''If we didn't, they will come to us.''
''I dislike the whole situation,'' he said. ''The Syrians don't trust us. They consider us lambs permissible for slaughtering.''
Mistrust had invaded the village, he said, even among some Shiites, as some have supported the battle more enthusiastically than others, and especially between them and the Syrian laborers who have long worked here.
''We're watching them,'' he said.
Here, Hezbollah finds itself caught between competing pressures. Some tribal Shiites, who back Hezbollah politically but resent the way it has supplanted their traditional power, voice discomfort with the fighting that has disrupted livelihoods and community ties and want it to end as soon as possible.
On the other hand, some followers chafe when the party urges restraint and reconciliation and forbids them to attack rebels and their supporters in the Lebanese Sunni village of Arsal across the valley. In the past week, the son of a Sunni leader from Arsal was killed near Hermel, and four Shiites were killed near Arsal, including two from the powerful Jaafari tribe.
Mohammed Jaafar, a tribe member, said that the family was refraining from traditional revenge killings at Hezbollah's request -- for now.
''We won't stay silent over our sons' blood,'' he said.
Even though Hezbollah's leader, Hassan Nasrallah, forbade celebratory gunfire in a recent speech, as the funeral procession passed on Wednesday, relatives of the dead fighter honored him with barrages of gunfire. Asked why, the Hezbollah supporter said it was impossible to contain people's emotions -- and, eventually their demands.
''I told Sayyed Hassan myself, there is a point at which we can't control the people,'' he said. ''If we could, then people from Arsal wouldn't have been killed, nor the Jaafari people.''
After the funeral, he awaited a meeting with a sheik from Arsal, part of a flurry of talks that aims to keep tensions low. Hezbollah, according to multiple Hermel residents and Sunnis visiting from Syria who do not support the uprising, has worked behind the scenes to keep Sunnis safe in Shiite-majority villages on both sides of the border, once even paying compensation to Shiites who wanted to take revenge on antigovernment Sunnis they said destroyed their homes.
But the Hezbollah supporter said he believed the rebels had not reciprocated. ''That's what hurts,'' he said.
North of Hermel, the Syrian border was quiet, the black-clad Hezbollah fighters who had been active there during the Qusayr battle nowhere to be seen; Hezbollah supporters said they had moved on to other battles in Syria.
Hussein Jamal, a Shiite man living at the border, whose yard had been struck by a shell and whose brother was kidnapped and never returned, said he felt safer now, but was unsure if relations with neighboring Sunnis would ever be the same.
''We were told no one was allowed to be hurt,'' he said. ''But without the leadership I don't think they would be staying here.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: For one Lebanese border village, Hezbollah's battle in Syria has ruptured longstanding ties. A boy, above, in Hermel held a flag during a funeral for one Hezbollah fighter. At left, a bakery in Baalbek displayed a portrait of another dead fighter. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SERGEY PONOMAREV FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEZBOLLAH (93%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RELIGION (89%); ARMED FORCES (77%); 2011 SYRIAN UPRISING (77%); ARMIES (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); CEMETERIES (66%)

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (94%)

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SYRIA (98%); LEBANON (95%); ISRAEL (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2013



717 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: Much Discourse, but No Surprises, Likely for Kerry in India

BYLINE: By GARDINER HARRIS

 BODY:
NEW DELHI -- Five years ago John Kerry, then a senator, helped persuade Prime Minister Manmohan Singh to pursue a civil nuclear agreement with the United States despite considerable political risks, and on Monday the two will meet again.
Nothing so momentous is likely to emerge from this year's meeting between the prime minister and Mr. Kerry, who is arriving here Sunday in his new role as secretary of state. 
The two men's shared history symbolizes a relationship between India and the United States that has grown so close in recent years that there are few surprises.
''Nothing dramatic is happening or is going to happen,'' said Naresh Chandra, a former ambassador to the United States from India. ''Things are boringly stable.''
Still, the two men have a lot to talk about on such issues as the future of Afghanistan, China's growing assertiveness in the region, investment rules for foreigners in India and pending immigration legislation in the United States, officials said.
Whether the famously taciturn Mr. Singh gets a word in edgewise with the loquacious Mr. Kerry is uncertain. The conversation is likely to be livelier when Mr. Kerry meets Salman Khurshid, India's foreign minister.
Mr. Khurshid's recent elevation to foreign minister is a sign of how much the relationship between the United States and India has deepened. He lived for years in the United States and is known to favor better ties between the two giants.
Ashley J. Tellis, a senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in Washington, said that the relationship between Mr. Kerry and Mr. Khurshid could be crucial.
''Far more gets done in bilateral ties when people invest in personal relationships,'' Mr. Tellis said.
In a video released on the eve of his visit, Mr. Kerry said that the two countries were ''going to talk about our shared interest in enhancing economic integration in the region; our commitment to a secure, stable and prosperous Afghanistan; and our support for India's regional leadership.''
Mr. Kerry is expected to sign an agreement providing American assistance to Indian efforts to open 200 community colleges that would train workers in marketable job skills, officials said, while an agreement on increased military cooperation is also likely. In a briefing for foreign reporters here, a top Indian official noted that India had more military exercises with the United States than with any other nation.
''We have a very active relationship, and many of the things which five years ago or 10 years ago would have been considered remarkable are now normal,'' said the official, who insisted on anonymity when discussing military matters.
India has been courted in recent years by every major world power. Its huge purchases of military hardware have contributed greatly to this geopolitical popularity, but so has the sense that its affections are winnable.
Indian officials have coyly refused to commit too much to any particular suitor. Li Keqiang of China came courting last month, bestowing upon India the honor of being the first country he visited as prime minister. Mr. Singh received Mr. Li cordially but then flew off to Japan, a visit that was seen as a mild rebuke to China.
No such rebuke is likely after Mr. Kerry's visit, but no great breakthrough is likely either. In part that is because national elections will take place in India next year, and cozying up to the United States has never been a particularly good electoral strategy. Communists are still relevant politically here, and one of the few issues that unites them and a sizable contingent of India's intellectual class is anti-Americanism.
''Those electoral politics are there, but they are changing,'' said K. Shankar Bajpai, a former Indian ambassador to the United States, China and Pakistan. ''There is hardly anyone in India of any prominence who doesn't have a relative in the United States and doesn't love going there.''
Another reason progress is often slow is that India has just three diplomats charged with negotiating agreements between the two, and they must oversee 36 continuing dialogues covering issues like defense, space exploration, security and scientific and health agreements. American diplomats complain that getting a moment with their harried Indian counterparts can be a challenge.
But an intriguing area of discussion between the two countries is still energy. The civil nuclear agreement in 2008 was a landmark politically but has been a bust commercially. Other energy initiatives could have a different outcome.
Mr. Kerry is personally committed to clean energy, while India is desperately looking for ways to bolster the stability and capacity of its electrical grid.
''I think energy is one place that the United States and India can make really needed, concrete progress,'' Mr. Chandra said. ''Because everyone knows that India's energy needs are going to be a problem.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (76%); IMMIGRATION (72%); ENDOWMENTS (69%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (60%); IMMIGRATION LAW (52%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (50%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); MANMOHAN SINGH (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (92%) INDIA (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2013



718 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1290 words

HEADLINE: In a Turnabout, Syria Rebels Get Libyan Weapons

BYLINE: By C. J. CHIVERS, ERIC SCHMITT and MARK MAZZETTI; C. J. Chivers reported from Syria and Turkey, and Mark Mazzetti and Eric Schmitt from Washington. David D. Kirkpatrick contributed reporting from Tripoli, Libya, and Karam Shoumali from Antakya, Turkey.

 BODY:
During his more than four decades in power, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi of Libya was North Africa's outrageously self-styled arms benefactor, a donor of weapons to guerrillas and terrorists around the world fighting governments he did not like.
Even after his death, the colonel's gunrunning vision lives on, although in ways he probably would have loathed.
Many of the same people who chased the colonel to his grave are busy shuttling his former arms stockpiles to rebels in Syria. The flow is an important source of weapons for the uprising and a case of bloody turnabout, as the inheritors of one strongman's arsenal use them in the fight against another.
Evidence gathered in Syria, along with flight-control data and interviews with militia members, smugglers, rebels, analysts and officials in several countries, offers a profile of a complex and active multinational effort, financed largely by Qatar, to transport arms from Libya to Syria's opposition fighters. Libya's own former fighters, who sympathize with Syria's rebels, have been eager collaborators. 
''It is just the enthusiasm of the Libyan people helping the Syrians,'' said Fawzi Bukatef, the former leader of an alliance of Libyan brigades who was recently named ambassador to Uganda, in an interview in Tripoli.
As the United States and its Western allies move toward providing lethal aid to Syrian rebels, these secretive transfers give insight into an unregistered arms pipeline that is difficult to monitor or control. And while the system appears to succeed in moving arms across multiple borders and to select rebel groups, once inside Syria the flow branches out. Extremist fighters, some of them aligned with Al Qaeda, have the money to buy the newly arrived stock, and many rebels are willing to sell.
For Russia -- which has steadfastly supplied weapons and diplomatic cover to President Bashar al-Assad of Syria -- this black-market flow is a case of bitter blowback. Many of the weapons Moscow proudly sold to Libya beginning in the Soviet era are now being shipped into the hands of rebels seeking to unseat another Kremlin ally.
Those weapons, which slipped from state custody as Colonel Qaddafi's people rose against him in 2011, are sent on ships or Qatar Emiri Air Force flights to a network of intelligence agencies and Syrian opposition leaders in Turkey. From there, Syrians distribute the arms according to their own formulas and preferences to particular fighting groups, which in turn issue them to their fighters on the ground, rebels and activists said.
Qatari C-17 cargo aircraft have made at least three stops in Libya this year -- including flights from Mitiga airport in Tripoli on Jan. 15 and Feb. 1, and another that departed Benghazi on April 16, according to flight data provided by an aviation official in the region. The planes returned to Al Udeid Air Base in Qatar. The cargo was then flown to Ankara, Turkey, along with other weapons and equipment that the Qataris had been gathering for the rebels, officials and rebels said.
Last week the Obama administration announced that it had evidence that Mr. Assad's military had used sarin nerve agent in multiple attacks, and that the United States would begin providing military aid to the rebels, including shipments of small arms.
In doing so, the United States could soon be openly feeding the same distribution network, just as it has received weapons from other sources.
The movements from Libya complement the airlift that has variously used Saudi, Jordanian and Qatari military cargo planes to funnel military equipment and weapons, including from Croatia, to the outgunned rebels. On Friday, Syrian opposition officials said the rebels had received a new shipment of anti-tank weapons and other arms, although they give varying accounts of the sources of the recently received arms. The Central Intelligence Agency has already played at least a supporting role, the officials say.
The Libyan shipments principally appear to be the work of armed groups there, and not of the weak central state, officials said.
Mr. Bukatef, the Libyan diplomat, said Libyan militias had been shipping weapons to Syrian rebels for more than a year.
''They collect the weapons, and when they have enough they send it,'' he said. ''The Libyan government is not involved, but it does not really matter.''
One former senior Obama administration familiar with the transfers said the Qatari government built relationships with Libyan militias in 2011, when, according to the report of a United Nations Panel of Experts, it shipped in weapons to rebel forces there in violation of United Nations Security Council Resolution 1973.
As a result, the Qataris can draw on their influence with Libya's militias to support their current beneficiaries in Syria. ''It's not that complicated,'' the former official said. ''We're watching it. The Libyans have an amazing amount of stuff.''
Syrian activists and Western officials say that like the unregistered arms transfers organized by other Arab states, the shipments from Libya have been very large but have not kept up with the enormous rebel ammunition expenditures each day.
And most of the weapons have been relatively light, including rifles, machine guns, rocket-propelled grenades, small arms ammunition and mortar rounds.
But the Libyan influx appears to account for at least a portion of the antitank weapons seen in the conflict this spring, including Belgian-made projectiles for M40 recoilless rifles and some of the Russian-made Konkurs-M guided missiles that have been destroying Syrian tanks in recent months.
Syrian rebels, working with Qatari backers and the Turkish government, have developed a system for acquiring and distributing Libya's excess stock, Syrian activists and rebels said.
Orders are placed and shipments arranged through the staff of the Supreme Military Council of the Free Syrian Army, a Western-backed opposition committee that was formed in Turkey late last year.
Safi Asafi, a coordinator commander active on Syria's northern borders, one of the unofficial gates for weapons shipment to the opposition, said that rebel groups seeking Libyan arms approach the council to arrange the deals.
''Any fighting group in Syria that wants weapons from Libya will go to the staff asking for the approval from the Turkish authorities involved in the transfer, then gets it, the weapons arrive in Syria, and everyone gets his due share,'' he said.
By one common formula, Mr. Asafi said, the staff will take 20 percent of the weapons designated for individual groups and distribute them to others. But the ratio can fluctuate, he said, depending on the group's stature and influence, and less powerful groups sometimes yield a larger cut.
The Supreme Military Council generally does not distribute weapons to blacklisted or extremist groups, Syrian activists said, but these groups have little trouble acquiring the weapons once the arms enter Syria, often buying them directly from groups that receive the council's support.
Signs of munitions from the former Qaddafi stockpile are readily visible.
Late last month The New York Times found crates, storage sleeves and spent cartridge cases for antitank rounds from Libya in the possession of Ahfad al-Rasul, a prominent group fighting the government and aligned with the Supreme Military Council.
The crates were immediately identifiable because they were painted with a distinctive symbol -- 412 inside a triangle -- that has been used by many manufacturers, including in China, the Soviet Union, Russia, North Korea and Belgium, to mark ordnance shipments designated for Colonel Qaddafi.
Stenciling on the crates' sides declared their original destination in 1980: the ''Socialist Peoples Libyan Arab Jamahirya.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Crates of recoilless rifle rounds in a rebel cache in Idlib, Syria, bear the triangle symbol of arms sent to Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TYLER HICKS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
 A Libyan rebel in 2011 carried off boxes of ammunition from a factory outside Tripoli that served as a supply point for Qaddafi forces. Libya's former fighters sympathize with Syria's rebels. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRYAN DENTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERVIEWS (90%); 2011 SYRIAN UPRISING (90%); ARMS TRADE (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); TERRORISM (89%); SMUGGLING (78%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (77%); AIR FORCES (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (74%); MILITARY BASES (74%); AIRPORTS (74%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%); AL-QAEDA (72%); CIVIL AVIATION (70%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (69%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (68%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (68%); ARMED FORCES (66%); AIR FREIGHT (65%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (60%)

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (90%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (53%) LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (98%); SYRIA (98%); NORTHERN AFRICA (92%); AFRICA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); UGANDA (79%); TURKEY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2013



719 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: North Korean Diplomat Blames United States for Tensions but Calls for Peace Talks

BYLINE: By RICK GLADSTONE and JANE PERLEZ; Rick Gladstone reported from New York, and Jane Perlez from Beijing.

 BODY:
In a mix of diplomacy and bombast, North Korea's ambassador to the United Nations called Friday for the United States to accept its recently revived proposal for direct peace talks, even as he blamed the Americans for all tensions on the Korean Peninsula starting with the war more than 60 years ago.
The ambassador, Sin Son-ho, also exhorted all countries to ignore the litany of economic sanctions imposed on the North by both the Security Council and the United States for its nuclear and missile tests, which have left the North Koreans increasingly isolated. 
In a rare North Korean news conference at the United Nations, Mr. Sin demanded that the United States dissolve its military command in South Korea, which was created to oversee the 1953 armistice that halted the Korean War. He urged the Americans to agree to high-level talks aimed at easing the tensions, eventually denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and replacing the armistice with a peace treaty, a proposal the North first revived last Sunday.
Mr. Sin said it was long past time to scrap the armistice, which he called ''neither peace nor war.''
His news conference, conducted in English and broadcast on the United Nations Web site, seemed aimed at a foreign audience, part of what appeared to be a broader North Korean effort to shift to a tone of dialogue instead of confrontation over its nuclear weapons and ballistic missile programs.
''This is their idea of a diplomatic offensive,'' said Jeffrey Lewis, director of the East Asia Nonproliferation Program at the Monterey Institute of International Studies. ''I think they're saying they're ready to come back to some kind of talks, but they're making it clear that they are not going to talk about denuclearizing without the broader stuff.''
The ambassador, who spoke for nearly an hour, took particular issue with the name of the American command in South Korea, the United Nations Command, although the United Nations plays no role. ''The United States is dishonoring the United Nations by abusing the name of the U.N. Command, as if the United Nations is a warring party,'' the ambassador said. ''This is a shame and another unproductive anachronism.''
The United States has always regarded the armistice as a central component of its Korea policy, and has repeatedly said the North must take concrete steps to show sincerity in relinquishing nuclear weapons before it would agree to direct talks.
The Americans also have remained deeply wary of the alternating signals of aggression and conciliation that have been coming from North Korea under its new leader, Kim Jong-un, grandson of the country's revolutionary founder and Korean War icon, Kim Il-sung.
In Washington, the Obama administration had no immediate comment to the North Korean ambassador's remarks. But a State Department spokesman, Patrick Ventrell, told reporters at a regular press briefing that ''our sanctions will continue.''
Even as he called for talks with the Americans, Mr. Sin held his own country blameless for the tensions on the Korean Peninsula and said the North's actions, including nuclear weapons development, were entirely for self-defense.
''The most pressing issue in Northeast Asia today is the hostile relations between the D.P.R.K. and the United States, which can lead to another war at any moment,'' he said, using the initials for North Korea's official name, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea.
''The United States, as a signatory to the armistice agreement, is entirely responsible for the ever-worsening situation on the Korean Peninsula,'' he said.
He sidestepped questions on China, which has long protected the North but has grown increasingly unhappy over its provocations. Asked about the latest Security Council sanctions on North Korea, which China and the United States helped draft, Mr. Sin said: ''I urge the nations which are members of the United Nations to not follow the sanctions and the blackmail policy of the United States blindly, because the United Nations Security Council resolutions on sanctions and the blackmails against us -- that is unjustified, that is illegal.''
Mr. Sin's rare public display came as a top North Korean emissary, Kim Kye-gwan, a vice foreign minister, ended a three-day visit to China.
Mr. Kim's visit was notable partly because it preceded a visit to China next week by the South Korean president, Park Geun-hye. It was also the first public contact between North Korea and China since President Obama and China's president, Xi Jinping, met in the United States, after which the Americans said the leaders had made progress on North Korea. American experts on North Korea said they believed its government was anxious to stop the Chinese from according Ms. Park a favorable visit, and to stop the Chinese and Ms. Park from calling for denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: At a news conference at the United Nations on Friday, North Korea's envoy, Sin Son-ho, left, told member states to ignore sanctions against his country. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW GOMBERT/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACE PROCESS (93%); TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); KOREAN WAR (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (75%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (74%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (73%); GRANDCHILDREN (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (70%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%)

PERSON: KIM JONG UN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); NORTHERN ASIA (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2013



720 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1068 words

HEADLINE: Confidence From Chief Of SoftBank In Sprint Bid

BYLINE: By HIROKO TABUCHI

 BODY:
TOKYO -- In 2005, SoftBank was in dire straits. The scrappy Internet services company had booked a $1 billion loss the previous year, its largest ever. A campaign to enter Japan's strictly regulated cellphone business had failed. Its share price, which had soared with the Internet bubble, had fallen to less than a tenth of its height in 2000.
But the next move by Masayoshi Son, SoftBank's founder and chief executive, astounded corporate Japan. Mr. Son plunged deeper into debt to acquire Vodafone's Japanese cellphone unit for about $15 billion -- Japan's largest leveraged buyout at the time -- to muscle his way into the mobile market.
SoftBank is now one of Japan's biggest companies -- its market capitalization is three times that of Sony's -- and Mr. Son is confident that his plan to break into the American mobile market with a $21.6 billion bid to buy Sprint will be easy. 
''We've fought far tougher battles than this,'' Mr. Son told investors on Friday in Tokyo at SoftBank's annual general meeting. Hours earlier, a rival bidder for Sprint had confirmed it was ending its pursuit of the mobile network, America's third-largest. ''It's just been so much easier this time round,'' he said.
Most analysts agree that Mr. Son, who seems set to acquire Sprint along with its Clearwire unit, faces long odds as he seeks to compete in the American mobile market. But his record for taking on giant companies -- and coming out on top -- bodes well for his chances, they say.
''Mr. Son is simply the most talented and audacious businessman Japan has ever produced,'' said Kazuo Noda, chairman of the Japan Research Institute. ''And when he goes into a new market, he doesn't just take on the big guys. He changes all the rules.''
It is Mr. Son's background as an outsider in Japanese society that makes him so willing to take risks, people who know him say, including Mr. Noda, who first met Mr. Son, then a college graduate, three decades ago.
A third-generation Korean-Japanese, a minority group that still faces discrimination in Japan, Mr. Son has spoken of his roots in a slum on the southern island of Kyushu. But after his family's fortunes improved, he made his way to the United States.
At high school and then at college in California, Mr. Son was dazzled by an entrepreneurial culture that he said he felt had been lost in Japan. And most of all, he was persuaded the world was about to experience a revolution in information technology.
Mr. Son founded SoftBank in 1981 first as a publisher of computer magazines, then as a successful distributor of computer software. Using money from that business, Mr. Son made a series of investments in the early 1990s, including a one-third stake in what was then a little-known American start-up named Yahoo. That bet paid off, giving Mr. Son money to expand his empire as Yahoo's share price climbed.
But Mr. Son burst into the big leagues in the 2000s, buying a stake in a bankrupt bank, a small telecommunications company, a baseball team and a part of Alibaba of China, now the world's largest e-commerce company
When SoftBank began offering fast DSL Internet service in Japan in 2001, it took on losses to undercut competitors' prices by half. Government officials fretted that the price war would cripple the entire market. But consumers loved the sharp fall in prices, and the DSL market grew almost thirtyfold in two years.
Around that time, Mr. Son also started pushing the Japanese government to let SoftBank into the country's highly regulated mobile sector, dominated by NTT DoCoMo, a subsidiary of the former state telecommunications monopoly. When his demands were snubbed, Mr. Son took the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications to court, accusing it of colluding with NTT to shut out competition.
The ministry eventually agreed to talks, but ultimately gave SoftBank a license to an inferior spectrum. Mr. Son, furious, turned to Plan B. In March 2006, SoftBank announced it would acquire Vodafone's struggling Japanese unit, borrowing 1.2 trillion yen ($10.3 billion at the time) to finance the purchase. A day later, Mr. Son returned his original license to the government.
His bets since then have been as bold. He brought the iPhone to Japan, using aggressive marketing to sell a handset most analysts said would not do well there because of its simplicity. Since then, the iPhone has become Japan's best-selling phone.
And underscoring his doggedness, Mr. Son confirmed that SoftBank considered other options in case the Sprint deal fell through, including buying T-Mobile, America's fourth-largest carrier, majority owned by Deutsche Telekom.
Now his doubters and his fans are watching the battle for Sprint. Mr. Son ''will go down in corporate history, but only if he doesn't stumble with his big bet on Sprint,'' said Tadashi Yanai, founder and chief of Fast Retailing, which sells the Uniqlo brand of clothes, and an external board member at SoftBank.
SoftBank's bid for Sprint, if it goes through, will be Japan's largest-ever overseas acquisition. Dish Network, the satellite TV company, threw a wrench into the deal with a rival offer.
To clinch the deal, Mr. Son raised his bid, while reducing the amount of capital it would inject into Sprint, raising concerns among some analysts that the move would hurt the American carrier's capacity to invest in network infrastructure. Mr. Son defended that move on Friday, saying the acquisition would generate annual savings of $2 billion over the next four years.
But Softbank is also paying dearly for the acquisition. It will use proceeds from recent bond sales, including a $4.1 billion issuance that closed Wednesday in Japan's biggest retail offering by a nonfinancial company, to finance the deal.
Mr. Son said that Sprint, with SoftBank as owner, would get aggressive in pricing handsets and service contracts by using global economies of scale to drive a hard bargain with phone makers. The two companies together sold 26.5 million phones last year, just a step behind Verizon's 28.8 million and AT&T's 26.9 million.
He said that unlike Vodafone Japan, Sprint would be a far easier corporate turnaround. Sprint has already been rebounding under Daniel R. Hesse, who reversed its reputation for poor customer service.
Mr. Son says he is ready for another big move. ''In tennis, you strike a ball just after the rebound for the fastest return,'' he said. ''It's the same with investment.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Masayoshi Son, SoftBank's founder and chief, has a track record in Japan for taking on giant companies and succeeding. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRANCK ROBICHON/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (78%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (77%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (75%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%); COMPUTING EQUIPMENT WHOLESALERS (60%)

COMPANY: SOFTBANK TECHNOLOGY CORP (92%); SOFTBANK CORP (92%)

TICKER: 4726 (TSE) (92%); 9984 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (92%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (92%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (89%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); KYUSHU, JAPAN (73%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2013



721 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1018 words

HEADLINE: Tax Programs to Finance Clean Energy Catch On

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL

 BODY:
Over the years, as Rick Murphy helped expand his family's auto business in Edina, Minn., outside Minneapolis, he wanted to install solar panels to cut the electricity bills, but the upfront cost was too high.
Then a developer, Blue Horizon Energy, made a proposal: Grandview Tire and Auto, using a new loan program, could borrow the $34,000 to install the system and pay it back over 10 years, but instead of making traditional loan payments, they would be made through his property taxes.
Now, with 117 panels on one of his five stores, he is saving $3,600 a year and bringing in new customers attracted to the company's green image. 
The program, he said, ''made the concept of adding solar to our business reality.''
After years of fits, starts and unanticipated pitfalls, the long-term loan program -- championed by the White House but stymied by federal housing officials -- is gaining traction across the country, especially among businesses like Grandview. Known as Property Assessed Clean Energy financing, the approach allows owners to borrow the money for conservation or clean energy upgrades and pay it back over the long haul, often 20 years, through a property tax surcharge.
Since June 2011, the number of projects completed with the financing has more than doubled, to at least 168 worth $33 million, from 75 worth $10 million, according to PACENow, a nonprofit advocacy group that tracks the programs. The group says that 30 states and the District of Columbia have passed laws allowing the program, and estimates that the number of projects could easily double by the end of next year.
And the approach is on the verge of becoming more widespread. A week ago, Gov. Rick Perry of Texas signed legislation that would allow more commercial and industrial projects to go forward. Texas joins seven other states that are amending their laws this year to allow the financing, while several local and state governments, including Connecticut, Sacramento, Miami and Atlanta, either have new districts with loan programs or soon will.
''It's an idea that resonates and is catching on,'' said David Gabrielson, the PACENow executive director. ''I see encouraging signs in the build-out of a whole new approach to funding energy efficiency.''
Despite the program's growth among businesses, the group it was originally intended for -- homeowners -- is still largely left out. The Federal Housing Finance Agency, which oversees financing for two-thirds of new residential mortgages through Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, does not allow those agencies to buy mortgages for properties with liens that have a higher priority for payback, as PACE loans often do.
Local governments have long used special taxing districts to finance improvements to private property that benefit the public. The idea behind PACE was to turn that idea toward upgrades like new windows and insulation or solar arrays that often cost more than property owners could pay upfront but less than they would save on electricity bills over time. Berkeley, Calif., pioneered the concept in 2008, and it quickly expanded, sometimes with the help of grants from the Department of Energy to pilot projects in several towns and states across the country.
But the program hit a snag in 2010 when the F.H.F.A., under pressure to improve its balance sheet during the housing crisis, derailed the program largely because in most cases the PACE loans would have to be repaid before the mortgages during a foreclosure.
Congressional and legal challenges to the agency's rulings have failed to overturn them, but advocates remain hopeful that a federal policy change could open up the loans to more homeowners.
''What's frustrating is when there's something which is an obvious win -- it's not even contentious -- and it doesn't go forward,'' said Dan Kammen, director of the Renewable and Appropriate Energy Laboratory at the University of California, Berkeley, who helped design and study early PACE programs.
F.H.F.A. officials have maintained that their legal obligation is to manage the risk of loss that Fannie and Freddie take on in guaranteeing mortgages, which also backs an enormous securities market. Some of the early programs approved by state lawmakers, for instance, allowed homeowners to borrow as much as 40 percent of their home values, raising concerns that, as in the subprime loan crisis, borrowers would push past their ability to repay.
''We're not averse to energy retrofitting,'' Alfred M. Pollard, the F.H.F.A. general counsel, said in an interview, adding that the agency remained concerned with how the loans would be repaid.
In any case, the market may have found other ways for homeowners to finance solar power systems, including traditional leasing and bank loans for purchase and installation.
''A few years ago, there weren't banks doing that kind of thing,'' said Toni Bouchard, vice president of SmartPower, a nonprofit clean energy marketing consultant. ''Now there are.''
For the moment, the momentum is on the commercial side. In Texas, for instance, the new law will allow special districts for commercial and industrial property owners, a large segment of the energy users in the state.
''What worked in progressive areas like Berkeley and Sonoma, what they were able to put up there, we couldn't just lift that and put it in a place like Texas,'' said Kate Zerrenner, climate and energy project manager of the Texas regional office of the Environmental Defense Fund.
So they worked closely with national lenders, she said, to create an approach allowing for flexible public-private partnerships and including water conservation projects and the industrial sector, a huge part of the state economy, to build support.
''Environment doesn't really sell here,'' she said. ''Climate change doesn't really sell here. But what does sell is anything that's good for business and job creation.''
In Connecticut, the PACE program is nonresidential as well, administered through the state's green bank, the Clean Energy Finance and Investment Authority, which originates the loans but then sells them individually or in bundles to investors.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rick Murphy of Grandview Tire and Auto in Minnesota took advantage of a loan program that helped in financing solar panels. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JENN ACKERMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOLAR ENERGY (91%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); PROPERTY ASSESSED CLEAN ENERGY (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (88%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (77%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); HOMEOWNERS (75%); MORTGAGE LOANS (63%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (62%); EXECUTIVES (60%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (80%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (73%) MINNESOTA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2013



722 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 544 words

HEADLINE: Intervene in Syria? Look to History

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''To Get a Truce, Be Ready to Escalate'' (Op-Ed, June 18):
Regarding Syria, Gen. Wesley K. Clark argues that United States ''inaction is not an option'' and that it must escalate its commitment. This is not the first time the United States has confronted this conundrum in the immediate region. 
In 1984, Washington had to decide whether to escalate in Lebanon in the midst of its civil war. The White House had committed forces in the aftermath of the 1982 massacres in the Palestinian camp of Sabra and Shatila and found itself increasingly sucked into the wider conflict.
The bombing of the Marine barracks in 1983 led the Reagan administration to expand operations with air and naval bombardment of American opponents. But then prudence intervened. The president's advisers realized that further involvement in the conflict was a no-win proposition.
As a result, American forces withdrew, and the war went on for another six years, but at no further cost to the United States in blood and treasure as the region's parties settled scores.
The alternative would have placed the United States in a quagmire. Lesson: Nonintervention in the Syrian civil war must be an option.
BENNETT RAMBERG Los Angeles, June 18, 2013
The writer was a policy analyst in the State Department's Bureau of Politico-Military Affairs in the George H. W. Bush administration.
To the Editor:
Gen. Wesley K. Clark suggests that a dictator as brutal as Bashar al-Assad will not concede the game until his back is against the wall.
But just across the border in Iraq, another brutal dictator did not accede to reality. Saddam Hussein continued on until his capture and execution.
Syria is perhaps even more of a quagmire than Iraq. The United States has no legitimate national interest in Syria other than to stem Iranian proxies. It is a good place to stay out of.
PAUL FRANZMANN Walla Walla, Wash., June 18, 2013
To the Editor:
Gen. Wesley K. Clark's call for a threat of force against Bashar al-Assad largely ignores the potential risks of a failed threat. His proposal could not only fail to reach an agreement in Syria, but could also ultimately lead to a much more dangerous world.
A threat might work. President Obama threatens the Syrian dictator; Mr. Assad believes Mr. Obama, and an agreement is reached. Somehow Russia and China are fine with this.
But a threat could also fail. Mr. Obama blinks first, setting a precedent of appeasement and noncredible threats. In the future, we would then need increasingly strong evidence that we would be willing to use military force to successfully deter through our threats.
The problem is that this evidence, like moving troops or providing minor support to rebels, escalates the conflict to higher stakes and risk. Such a high-risk world is a place where the costs of erroneous action are measured in countless lives lost.
There are strong reasons to think that a threat of sufficient magnitude to force the Syrian to a truce would suffer from credibility problems. Would an America fatigued by war support direct intervention in Syria? A better question is, Would we be willing to play this game of chicken to the end?
BRETT J. GALL Washington, June 18, 2013
The writer is a graduate student in public policy at the London School of Economics.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (88%); 2011 SYRIAN UPRISING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); MILITARY BASES (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); ARMED FORCES (74%); WRITERS (73%); BOMBINGS (70%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (77%); BARACK OBAMA (75%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (55%); GEORGE H W BUSH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); SYRIA (95%); IRAQ (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); CHINA (79%); LEBANON (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2013



723 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; MOUNT AIRY JOURNAL; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 771 words

HEADLINE: Inspiring Mayberry, and Then Becoming It

BYLINE: By KIM SEVERSON

 BODY:
MOUNT AIRY, N.C. -- Marketing a small Southern town that has been repeatedly gut-punched by the economy requires the kind of drive and creativity that come only from desperation.
Mount Airy, a town of about 9,340 that hugs the Virginia border, has a history of economic agility. When the railroad came, it advertised itself as a healthy mountain retreat. When the tobacco barons put local growers out of business, the town started spinning cotton into clothes and socks. When the textile plants shut down, it turned to Andy Griffith.
In 1990, Mount Airy began to transform itself into Mayberry, recreating on its main street the fictional setting of ''The Andy Griffith Show.'' Mr. Griffith, who was born in Mount Airy, starred in the show as Sheriff Andy Taylor. During its run, from 1960 to 1968, it was among the most popular shows in America, and it has been seen in reruns ever since. 
A playhouse and a museum are dedicated to Mr. Griffith. At the Mayberry Motor Inn, a woman who looks something like Aunt Bee will show you the room that holds memorabilia from the estate of Frances Bavier, the actress who played her.
Visitors can tour the town in a vintage police car and eat soggy fried pork chop sandwiches at the Snappy Lunch, a real-life place that was mentioned once in the show. The third Friday of the month the actress Betty Lynn, who played Thelma Lou on the show and moved to Mount Airy from Los Angeles in 2007, signs autographs.
In 2010, the 50th anniversary of the show drew 50,000 people to the annual Mayberry Days festival, held each September.
But hard times seem just around the corner for the Mayberry strategy.
This year, organizers hope the festival will at least reach the 30,000 it has in other years. But that might be optimistic. Shopkeepers report that the number of visitors who wander the streets whistling the show's theme song, which is piped out from speakers, are definitely thinning.
It does not help that people connected to the show are dying. Last year, Mr. Griffith died. So did George Lindsey, who played Goober. In January, the town lost Emmett Forrest, 85, Mr. Griffith's childhood friend and the force behind the town's embrace of the Mayberry way of life.
Even Russell Hiatt, the elderly barber who says he was the inspiration for the character Floyd, is moving slower, giving fewer and fewer trims as the months pass.
The question, then, becomes, how much longer can one little town rely on the gimmick?
''I think it's already coming to a halt,'' said Amanda Richardson, 24, who works at a cafe called Barney's on Main Street, not far from Opie's Candy Store. ''My daughter isn't going to want to go somewhere to learn about Andy Griffith.''
Few will argue that the town is going to have to come up with something else eventually.
''Nobody knows how long we can hold onto the name,'' said Becky Payne, 59, who was eating at Barney's recently. ''It's wonderful we have Andy Griffith, but what else do we have here?''
Unemployment in Surry County has just dipped under 10 percent, but jobs remain hard to find. Spencer's, a major employer that once made baby clothes in a light blue factory in the center of town, closed in 2007. The nearby granite quarry has had rounds of layoffs.
There are other problems in a town that, to all appearances, seems as nice as they come. The police report a stubborn problem with illegal OxyContin use. In May, a man claiming to be from a nonexistent winery ran a fake raffle promising a Fiat. Dozens of people bought the $100 tickets. The police are still looking for him.
But Mount Airy remains undeterred. One thought is to continue to capitalize on vineyards in the Yadkin Valley springing up on old tobacco fields. Nearby wineries have increased to 35 from only 5 in 2002. That led to a new, somewhat debated, slogan: From Mayberry to Merlot. At the Chamber of Commerce, they hand out promotional corkscrews.
There are other attractions to build on, among them the colorful fall leaves, the annual fiddlers' festival and the nearby Blue Ridge Mountains.
Eng and Chang Bunker, the conjoined twins from Thailand whose plight brought about the term Siamese twins, settled in the area. They died in 1874 and are buried nearby. Between them they had 21 children, and their descendants hold an annual reunion in July that is open to the public.
But all in all, many people think the appeal of Mayberry is still the best bet.
''What is Mayberry?'' asked the ever-buoyant Betty Ann Collins, president of the Greater Mount Airy Chamber of Commerce. ''It's what's in your mind. It's that safe place you can come to so that you can escape. Who wouldn't want some of that?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Russell Hiatt, 89, lays claim to being the real barber who gave rise to the fictional Floyd the barber on ''The Andy Griffith Show.''
A vintage police car at the Mayberry Motor Inn pays tribute to Deputy Barney Fife with its tag
 James Slate, far left, dresses in character as Otis Campbell from ''The Andy Griffith Show'' for visitors and local residents alike. More photos at nytimes.com/national. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RAYMOND McCREA JONES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); FESTIVALS (87%); TEXTILES (76%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (76%); RETAILERS (75%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); TEXTILE MFG (71%); TEXTILE MILLS (71%); ANNIVERSARIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2013



724 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(India Ink)

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2013

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 1577 words

HEADLINE: The New New Thing in U.S.-Indian Relations?

BYLINE: DANIEL KURTZ-PHELAN


HIGHLIGHT: As U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry heads to India, many wonder if India&#8217;s relationship with America has failed to live up to its once lofty expectations. 

 BODY:
Some time early in the last decade, official Washington discovered India's "strategic" value. The emblem of this revelation was the Bush administration's civil-nuclear agreement, unveiled with great fanfare in 2005. Technically designed to allow peaceful nuclear cooperation with India despite its then-status as a nonproliferation pariah, the real purpose, as one architect of the accord put it, was to "forge the strategic partnership based on common values that had eluded both countries for many decades" and demonstrate "how valuable [Washington] deemed the U.S.-Indian partnership to be in meeting U.S. grand strategic objectives."

It was an act of faith: two big, diverse, sometimes exasperating democracies, the United States and India would surely find a way to do wonderful things together. India would be an ally in global causes, a counterweight to China, a shining example of democratic development. 
Since then, the official rhetoric has gotten grander and more sweeping - the U.S.-India relationship, President Obama proclaimed to the Indian parliament in 2010, "will be one of the defining partnerships of the 21st century" - while a chorus of skepticism, in both capitals, has gotten louder and more pointed. In Washington, the relationship is derided as oversold, wilting, adrift; India can't deliver on an agreement, refuses to open its markets to our companies, undercuts us in international negotiations, remains unshaken in its fealty to old ideologies and "strategic autonomy." In New Delhi, the Americans are bemoaned as impatient, myopic, fickle, the United States as too set in its domineering ways to treat India as an equal partner. Both sides lament the absence of the next big thing, a new undertaking on the order of the civil-nuclear agreement, to give the partnership some splash.
Those complaints dramatically overstate the difficulties and downplay the progress in what was long a very tense relationship. Yet they add up to a bloc of opinion that John Kerry will have to confront when he arrives in New Delhi on Sunday, for his first visit to India as Secretary of State.
Mr. Kerry and India's External Affairs Minister, Salman Khurshid, will devote most of a day to the India-U.S. Strategic Dialogue, an endeavor started by Hillary Clinton in 2009. As U.S. and Indian officials rightly and insistently point out, the range of issues that dozens of representatives of the two governments will discuss would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago: energy and the environment, terrorism and cybersecurity, development cooperation and higher education, trade that has roughly quintupled in a decade and security cooperation that now includes both frequent military exercises and booming defense sales. Easily belittled, often deadly boring to sit through, these proceedings serve a prosaic but essential function: they force top officials to take the time to communicate and bureaucracies to make the effort to cooperate. They are, the insiders say, "action-forcing events."
But no matter how long the list of joint projects, technical dialogues, and substantive agreements, there is a nagging sense that until a major new initiative is found, charges of drift and divergence - the "widespread" impression that "relations are on a plateau, if not in the doldrums," as a former Indian ambassador to the U.S. observed this week - will dog the relationship. The Brookings Institution's Tanvi Madan has warned of"India fatigue" among those in Washington who expect a headline project and short-term returns. And so diplomats and policymakers are pressed to find that next big thing to quiet the doubters.
That search hasn't shown much promise. Even as the civil-nuclear agreement gets tangled up in the details of liability rules, candidates for the next big thing promise at best modest progress and at worst mutual recrimination. Heightened energy cooperation, especially a U.S. decision to allow natural-gas exports to India, would be useful but hardly transformative in the short term. The key economic issues, supposedly at the top of Mr. Kerry's agenda, are largely divisive. In advance of his trip, the top Democrat and the top Republican on the Senate Finance Committee wrote to Mr. Kerry, "We cannot afford to sit back and watch as India adopts policies that adversely impact U.S. innovative and creative industries, and threaten the greater stability of the international trading system"; a coalition of U.S. businesses went to the White Housewith complaints that "India is discriminating against a wide range of U.S. exports, jeopardizing domestic jobs and putting at risk a growing bilateral trading relationship." An investment treaty and expanded foreign direct investment, longstanding items on Washington's wish list, are as fanciful as ever as India's elections approach next year. "We just have to get beyond," says one Indian official, "depending on big ideas."
The more traditional "strategic" topics don't allow for easy feel-good interaction either. In the most crucial foreign policy areas, Afghanistan and China, there may be long-term convergence between U.S. and Indian interests, but at the moment, tactical differences lend the discussions an air of apprehension. Indians have long worried about what the United States might do as it heads for the exits in Afghanistan, particularly that it will cut a desperate deal with the Taliban or the Pakistani security services. "That's what gives us the creeps," said one senior Indian diplomat. And for many, this week's aborted unveiling of talks with the Taliban (or theIslamic Emirate of Afghanistan, as they proclaimed from their Qatari outpost) looked like exactly that: "The ISI and the Taliban are getting everything they want from the Americans."
Indian officials have talked of East Asia as the "strategic glue" that will hold the relationship together, but that raises another set of anxieties. For some Indians, U.S. policy toward China risks becoming too hard, for others, too soft. It takes a lot of reassurance and explanation to persuade them that Washington wants a policy that is just right. That means, on the one hand, that the United States has no interest in impressing the Indians into some kind of neo-containment regime directed at China, and on the other, that it will not retreat and abandon them to Chinese hegemony. Even many sophisticated Indian observers wonder whether the United States will eventually have little choice but to accede to a "G-2," with Beijing and Washington divvying up Asia and leaving India out in the cold. "That fear is always lurking in the back of our minds," said one recently retired top diplomat. After President Obama's meeting with Chinese President Xi Jinping in California (and the recent Chinese-Indian standoff in Ladakh), it seemed to creep to the front, with a former Indian intelligence chiefsnidely referringto the summit "as the Big Boys' Club ... dividing the world into spheres of influence and power" and speculating about a secret declaration that would constitute "Asia's Yalta."
**
Yet if the quest for the next big thing is futile, the disagreements and difficulties inherent in these "strategic" discussions should not be cause for discouragement or reason to skirt hard issues for the sake of proclaiming the visit a great success and the relationship as sunny as ever. In fact, a focus on these issues would be less a sign of drift than a sign of progress. They represent the basic purpose behind the grand claims for the "strategic partnership": a testament to its maturity as well as a test of its seriousness. The validity of those claims will hinge not on an endless search for the next big thing, the next headline-grabbing breakthrough, but on whether the two sides can address these sorts of differences, manage them, and find complementary (which will not always mean cooperative) policies that serve common longer-term interests. In the process, Americans should remember that some of the United States' most important partners in the past have demonstrated plenty of "strategic autonomy" - think France during the Cold War - and were still crucial in supporting shared goals.
When two difficult democracies, each with its own chaotic and often dysfunctional politics, try to do all of this together, the process becomes even more complicated. For diplomats, democracy can seem as vexing in practice as it is uplifting in theory, as much a curse as a blessing - whether in thwarting big deals (as was nearly the case with the civil-nuclear agreement in 2008) or in blocking bilateral discussions (a persistent complaint U.S. economic officials). Yet it also means Americans can take considerable comfort in the fact that, according to recent polling, Indians view the United States more positively than they do any other country (while 83 percent view China as a threat). Whatever the disagreements, whatever the foiled aspirations and diplomatic spats, that bodes well: ultimately, the United States supports India more for what it is than for what it does.
 Daniel Kurtz-Phelan, a member of Secretary of State Hillary Clinton's policy planning staff from 2009 to 2012, is currently a senior visiting fellow at the Centre for Policy Research in New Delhi. 

        
Should India Provide Direct Military Aid to Afghanistan?
        
Signs of an Asian Arms Buildup in India's Missile Test
        
BRICS: Policy Block or Photo Op?
        
Amartya Sen on Why India Trails China
        
Tourists Still Coming to India but at Slower Pace

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (91%); TALIBAN (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (77%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (76%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (65%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (62%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (60%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (60%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (60%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (60%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (57%); TERRORISM (50%) Afghanistan; China; Clinton, Hillary Rodham; Defense and Military Forces; Elections; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; India; Inter-Services Intelligence; International Relations; New Delhi (India); Obama, Barack; State Department; Taliban; United States; United States International Relations; Xi Jinping

ORGANIZATION: Inter-Services Intelligence; State Department; Taliban

PERSON: XI JINPING (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (90%); JOHN KERRY (89%); BARACK OBAMA (88%) Clinton, Hillary Rodham; Obama, Barack; Xi Jinping

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (94%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (93%); ASIA (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%) Afghanistan; China; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; India; New Delhi (India); United States

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2013



725 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 332 words

HEADLINE: The Weekend Word: The Blind Side

BYLINE: JADA F. SMITH


HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today&#8217;s Times and a look at the weekly addresses, plus the latest happenings in Washington. 

 BODY:
 Today's Times 

        
The leaders of several agriculture trade groups say they were blindsided by Congress's failure to pass a new five-year bill for the industry, expressing disappointment that the legislation has been held up for years by partisan politics, Ron Nixon reports. Several farmers, ranchers and dairy producers said the lack of a bill left them unable to plan for the planting season.
 

        
The House's vote against the farm bill highlighted disparate trajectories in the House and Senate that may be a harbinger of trouble for the proposed immigration overhaul, Jennifer Steinhauer reports.
 Weekly Addresses 

        
President Obama used this week's address to make the case for immigration reform, calling the current system broken and in need of compromise. An overhaul would not only strengthen border security and attract highly skilled workers, he said, but would also bolster the economy. "With this bill, millions of additional people will start paying more in taxes for things like Social Security and education," he told listeners. "That'll make the economy fairer for middle-class families."

        
Representative John Kline, Republican of Minnesota, accused Senate Democrats of actively blocking the president's plan to hold down student loan interest rates and refusing to consider the one his party proposed. "If I didn't know any better, I would say they are content to let rates double," he said. "This 11th-hour scrambling is a perfect demonstration of why we need to take the politics out of student loans once and for all."
 Happenings in Washington 

        
The Smithsonian's Lemelson Center for the Study of Invention and Innovation will host a public festival this weekend celebrating skateboard culture's "innovative" spirit.

        
Senate Likely to Vote on Immigration Overhaul Before July 4
        
Supporters of Immigration Bill Offer Amendment Focused on Women
        
Alaska's Murkowski Becomes Third G.O.P. Senator to Support Gay Marriage
        
Testy Debate in Mass. Senate Race Over Term Limits
        
Q. and A.: Is Congress Broken?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (78%); AGRICULTURE (78%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (72%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (70%); TERM LIMITS (70%); BORDER CONTROL (68%); FAMILY (68%); MARRIAGE (66%); INTEREST RATES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); STUDENT LOANS (66%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (50%) United States Politics and Government; The Caucus

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); LISA MURKOWSKI (58%); JOHN KLINE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2013



726 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1339 words

HEADLINE: Young and Isolated

BYLINE: JENNIFER M. SILVA


HIGHLIGHT: Working-class 20- and 30-somethings are coming of age in a world of disappearing jobs, soaring education costs and shrinking social support networks. 

 BODY:
In a working-class neighborhood in Lowell, Mass., in early 2009, I sat across the table from Diana, then 24, in the kitchen of her mother's house. Diana had planned to graduate from college, marry, buy a home in the suburbs and have kids, a dog and a cat by the time she was 30. But she had recently dropped out of a nearby private university after two years of study and with nearly $80,000 in student loans. Now she worked at Dunkin' Donuts.
"With college," she explained, "I would have had to wait five years to get a degree, and once I get that, who knows if I will be working and if I would find something I wanted to do. I don't want to be a cop or anything. I don't know what to do with it. My manager says some people are born to make coffee, and I guess I was born to make coffee."
Young working-class men and women like Diana are trying to figure out what it means to be an adult in a world of disappearing jobs, soaring education costs and shrinking social support networks. Today, only 20 percent of men and women between 18 and 29 are married. They live at home longer, spend more years in college, change jobs more frequently and start families later. 
For more affluent young adults, this may look a lot like freedom. But for the hundred-some working-class 20- and 30-somethings I interviewed between 2008 and 2010 in Lowell and Richmond, Va., at gas stations, fast-food chains, community colleges and temp agencies, the view is very different.
Lowell and Richmond embody many of the structural forces, like deindustrialization and declining blue-collar jobs, that frame working-class young people's attempts to come of age in America today. The economic hardships of these men and women, both white and black, have been well documented. But often overlooked are what the sociologists Richard Sennett and Jonathan Cobb in 1972 called their "hidden injuries" - the difficult-to-measure social costs borne by working-class youths as they struggle to forge stable and meaningful adult lives.
These are people bouncing from one temporary job to the next; dropping out of college because they can't figure out financial aid forms or fulfill their major requirements; relying on credit cards for medical emergencies; and avoiding romantic commitments because they can take care of only themselves. Increasingly disconnected from institutions of work, family and community, they grow up by learning that counting on others will only hurt them in the end. Adulthood is not simply being delayed but dramatically reimagined along lines of trust, dignity and connection and obligation to others.
Take Jay, for example. He was expelled from college for failing several classes after his mother suffered a severe mental breakdown. He worked for a year, then went before the college administration and petitioned to be reinstated. He described it as a humiliating experience: "It's their jobs to hear all these sob stories, you know, I understand that, but they just had this attitude, like you know what I mean, 'Oh, your mom had a breakdown and you couldn't turn to anyone?' "
Jay got back in and graduated (after a total of seven years of college). But when I talked to him, he was still working food-service and coffee-shop jobs at 28, baffled about how to turn his communications major into a professional job. He felt as if he was sold fake goods: "The world is at my fingertips, you can rule the world, be whatever you want, all this stuff. When I was 15, 16, I would not have envisioned the life I am living now. Whatever I imagined, I figured I would wear a suit every day, that I would own things. I don't own anything."
I heard many people express feeling betrayed by the major institutions in their lives, whether colleges, the health care system, employers or the government.
Christopher, who was 25, stated simply, "Well, I have this problem of being tricked." He explained: "Like, I will get a phone call that says, you won a free supply of magazines. And they will start coming to my house. Then all of a sudden I am getting calls from bill collectors for the subscriptions to Maxim and ESPN. It's a runaround: I can't figure out who to call. Now I don't even pick up the phone, like I almost didn't pick up when you called me." He described isolation as the only safe path; by depending on no one, Christopher protected himself from trickery and betrayal.
These fears seep into the romantic sphere, where commitment becomes yet another risky venture. Kelly, a 28-year-old line cook, spent 10 years battling depression and living off and on in her car. She finally had a job and an apartment of her own. But now she was worried about risking that hard-earned sense of security by letting someone else into her life. "I like the idea of being with someone," she said, "but I have a hard time imagining trusting anybody with all of my personal stuff." She said she would "rather be alone and fierce than be in a relationship and be milquetoast."
Men often face a different challenge: the impossibility of living up to the male provider role. Brandon, who worked the night shift at a clothing store, described what he thought it would be like to be in a relationship with him: "No woman wants to sit on the couch all the time and watch TV and eat at Burger King. I can only take care of myself."
It is not that these men and women don't value family. Douglas, then 25, talked about loss: "Trust is gone. The way people used to love is gone." Rather, the insecurities and uncertainties of their daily lives have rendered commitment a luxury they can't afford.
But these young men and women don't want your pity - and they don't expect a handout. They are quick to blame themselves for the milestones they have not yet (and may never) achieve. Julian, an Army vet from Richmond who was unemployed, divorced and living with his mother at 28, dismissed the notion that his lack of success was anyone's fault but his own: "At the end of the day looking in the mirror, I know where all my shortcomings come from. From the things that I either did not do or I did and I just happened to fail at them." Kelly echoed that: "No one else is going to fix me but me."
This self-sufficiency, while highly prized in our culture, has a dark side: it leaves little empathy to spare for those who cannot survive on their own.
Wanda, a young woman with big dreams of going to college, expressed virulent anger toward her parents, a tow-truck driver and a secretary, for not being able to pay her tuition: "I feel like it's their fault that they don't have nothing." Rather than build connections with those who struggled alongside her, Wanda severed relationships and willed herself not to be "weak-minded" like her parents: "if my mentality were different, then most definitely I would just be stuck like them."
Working-class youths come to believe that if they have to make it on their own, then everyone else should, too. Powerless to achieve external markers of adulthood like marriage or a steady job, they instead measure their progress by cutting ties, turning inward and numbing themselves emotionally.
We don't want to go back to the 1950s, when economic stability and social solidarity came at the cost of exclusion for many Americans. But nor can we afford the social costs of going forward on our present path of isolation. The social and economic decline of the American working class will only be exacerbated as its youngest members make a virtue out of self-blame, distrust and disconnection. In order to tell a different kind of coming-of-age story, we need to provide these young men and women with the skills and support to navigate the road to adulthood. Our future depends on it.
 Jennifer M. Silva is a postdoctoral research fellow at the Harvard Kennedy School and the author of the forthcoming book "Coming Up Short: Working-Class Adulthood in an Age of Uncertainty." 

        
Our Broken Social Contract
        
The New Economic Risk: Complacency
        
Schooling Ourselves in an Unequal America
        
Japan Is a Model, Not a Cautionary Tale
        
Why Can't America Be Sweden?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STUDENT EXPENSES (89%); FAMILY (89%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (77%); STUDENT LOANS (77%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (77%); SOCIOLOGY (76%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (73%); SUBURBS (73%); MEN (72%); TRENDS (71%); SCHOOL SUSPENSION & EXPULSION (70%); FAST FOOD (70%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (66%); GAS STATIONS (64%) Income Inequality; Labor and Jobs; Social Conditions and Trends; United States Economy; The Great Divide

COMPANY: DUNKIN' BRANDS GROUP INC (71%)

TICKER: DNKN (NASDAQ) (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (71%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (68%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2013



727 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Dot Earth)

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 506 words

HEADLINE: Obama Previews an Upcoming Global Warming Speech

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN


HIGHLIGHT: President Obama plans to deliver a big global warming speech on Tuesday. Will action follow? 

 BODY:
 7:06 a.m. | Updated | 
Three years after President Obama's science adviser, John P. Holdren, said that the president was planning a "major speech" on addressing human-driven global warming, it's coming - on Tuesday at Georgetown University. The speech comes a few days after White House officials said the administration was moving forward on the long process of regulating carbon dioxide emissions from existing power plants.
Here's what amounts to a video trailer for the speech, which the White House distributed via Twitter on Saturday: 
We owe it to our kids to do something about climate change. Share this video and join me Tuesday: http://t.co/ifWvlB6qCL -bo
- The White House (@whitehouse)22 Jun 13
If it seems like this effort to constrain greenhouse gases is happening at the pace of one of the videos produced by the "Slo Mo Guys," that's not an illusion. It began with George W. Bush's first campaign for the White House in 2000. (His effort ended a few months later.) There's more on the challenges to presidents in pushing ahead with greenhouse gas restrictions in my 2008 post, "The Presidency and the Climate Challenge."
Here's the transcript of Obama's video narration:
In my inaugural address, I pledged that America would respond to the growing threat of climate change for the sake of our children and future generations.
This Tuesday, I'll lay out my vision for where I believe we need to go - a national plan to reduce carbon pollution, prepare our country for the impacts of climate change, and lead global efforts to fight it.
This is a serious challenge - but it's one uniquely suited to America's strengths.
We'll need scientists to design new fuels, and farmers to grow them.
We'll need engineers to devise new sources of energy, and businesses to make and sell them.
We'll need workers to build the foundation for a clean energy economy.
And we'll need all of us, as citizens, to do our part to preserve God's creation for future generations - our forests and waterways, our croplands and snowcapped peaks.
There's no single step that can reverse the effects of climate change. But when it comes to the world we leave our children, we owe it to them to do what we can.
So I hope you'll share this message with your friends. Because this a challenge that affects everyone - and we all have a stake in solving it together.
I hope to see you Tuesday. Thank you.
 | Updates | Politico has a pretty thorough breakdown of anticipated components of the president's climate plan, including a substantial expansion of renewable energy development on public lands.
 June 24, 7:06 a.m. | Via Twitter | 
What to expect from Obama's big climate speech tomorrow. http://t.co/vCoU504IPq
- Kate Sheppard (@kate_sheppard)24 Jun 13

        
Will Storm's Wall Street Impact Influence U.S. Carbon Policy?
        
Obama's Chance for a Fresh Start on a Climate-Smart Energy Quest
        
Draft Federal Report Sees Big U.S. Impacts from Global Warming
        
More On a Quest for Common Ground on Climate Change
        
With Economy Still Trumping Emissions, Obama Plans an Education Push on Climate

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: GLOBAL WARMING (92%); GREENHOUSE GASES (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); SCIENCE POLICY (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); TRANSCRIPTS (77%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (76%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (71%); POWER PLANTS (71%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (71%); AIR POLLUTION (71%) Carbon Dioxide; Georgetown University; Global Warming; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; Holdren, John P; Obama, Barack; United States Economy; Climate Change; energy; politics

ORGANIZATION: Georgetown University

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Holdren, John P; Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2013



728 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 403 words

HEADLINE: Obama to Unveil Climate Plan on Tuesday

BYLINE: PETER BAKER


HIGHLIGHT: President Obama plans to make a major speech on Tuesday to unveil his second-term plan to curb the causes and effects of climate change, a plan expected to include limits on carbon dioxide emissions from existing power plants. 

 BODY:
President Obama said Saturday that he would make a major speech on Tuesday to unveil his second-term plan to curb the causes and effects of climate change, a plan expected to include limits on carbon dioxide emissions from existing power plants. 
"This Tuesday, I'll lay out my vision for where I believe we need to go - a national plan to reduce carbon pollution, prepare our country for the impacts of climate change, and lead global efforts to fight it," Mr. Obama said in a video released by the White House. "This is a serious challenge - but it's one uniquely suited to America's strengths."
Mr. Obama's decision to use his executive authority to regulate utilities reflects a determination that he has no prospect of passing such sweeping policies through Congress. But while the Supreme Court validated the power of the executive to regulate carbon emissions without further legislation, the president's move may draw lawsuits and other challenges from industry and Republicans citing the economic costs.
The administration has already moved to curb emissions of new power plants, but expanding regulation to existing utilities would be among the most consequential decisions the president could make. More than a third of greenhouse gas emissions in the United States are produced by electric power facilities.
Mr. Obama did not say in his video what would be included in his Tuesday speech, but administration officials have previously said it would includeproposed power plant rules. Because of the complicated regulatory process, it could take until the end of his second term to put them in place.
"There's no single step that can reverse the effects of climate change," Mr. Obama said in the video. "But when it comes to the world we leave our children, we owe it to them to do what we can."
As word of Mr. Obama's plans spread in recent days, Republicans criticized the president for risking an already fragile economic recovery. "I think this is absolutely crazy," Speaker John A. Boehner said earlier in the week. "Why would you want to increase the cost of energy and kill more American jobs at a time when the American people are still asking the question, where are the jobs?"

        
Like His Successor, Bush Is Going to Africa
        
On Nuclear Cuts, a Split Over Whether Senate Backing Is Needed
        
The Early Word: Reinforcements
        
Former Obama Advisers Start Communications Company
        
Obama Speaks at Rally for Massachusetts Democrat

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (94%); CLIMATE CHANGE (92%); GREENHOUSE GASES (92%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (91%); POWER PLANTS (91%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); POLITICS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); VIDEO INDUSTRY (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); ENERGY REGULATION (74%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (72%); AIR POLLUTION (72%); SUPREME COURTS (69%); LITIGATION (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (69%) Carbon Dioxide; Global Warming; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; Obama, Barack; The Caucus

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); JOHN BOEHNER (54%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2013



729 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1159 words

HEADLINE: An Advice Book by a 28-Year-Old? Not Quite

BYLINE: By AIMEE LEE BALL

 BODY:
There was a crucial moment in the life of Kelly Williams Brown when she realized that she had not made the necessary leap into adulthood: she was moving into a new apartment, and her furniture, made of particleboard, disintegrated in the rain.
Putting this memory behind her, Ms. Brown, a 28-year-old advertising copywriter in Portland, Ore., has set out to become a kind of Dear Abby/Martha Stewart/Yoda for millennials.
Her new book, ''Adulting: How to Become a Grown-up in 468 Easy (ish) Steps'' (Grand Central Publishing), is meant to help her peers navigate the rocky shoals of maturity, to guide those 20-somethings who are just figuring out that radio silence is not an acceptable breakup technique, and food does not spontaneously manifest itself in the refrigerator.
''One of the most jolting days of adulthood comes the first time you run out of toilet paper,'' Ms. Brown said. ''Toilet paper, up until this point, always just existed.'' 
The idea for ''Adulting'' (which has just been optioned for television by J. J. Abrams, executive producer of the ''Lost'' series) was refined when Ms. Brown worked as a reporter for the Statesman Journal in Salem, Ore., consulting her Facebook friends for a column about what skills or possessions they should have by the age of 30.
Those ad hoc advisers inform the book, along with what the author calls ''wise random strangers at bars'' and a retinue of ''experts'': grief counselors, auto mechanics, etiquette savants, her parents and a surgeon who tells patients (in step No. 274), ''I'd almost rather they use heroin with clean needles than smoke.''
Ms. Brown's memories of her own moving day led to No. 51: ''Don't put big sturdy things in with little breakable things because it's the inanimate version of Lennie and the puppy in 'Of Mice and Men.' ''
But her counsel bounces around many personal and professional issues, from career (No. 176: ''Do not steal more than $3 worth of office supplies per quarter'') to condolences (No. 411: ''If someone invites you to a funeral, you need to have a really compelling reason to skip it'') to cooking (No. 74: ''Oatmeal gives you an amazing amount of energy, like cocaine, if cocaine were really good for your digestion and didn't ruin lives'').
Despite her own admirable deportment (shiny ginger hair and no evidence of the disintegrating mascara that she calls ''failure flakes''), Ms. Brown mostly stays clear of fashion or beauty concerns. ''There are vast industries telling young women what to wear and how to look,'' she said. But (No. 252) ''If you're going to wear white, you must commit to it'' -- meaning no mustard, tomato sauce or Sharpies. ''This also goes for baby blue, baby pink, spring green: basically any color that would be at home for an Easter service.''
Some serious issues are tackled, including realistic references to exigencies created by the current economy, from moving back with Mom and Dad (No. 452: ''Do nonmonetary things to help out'') to joblessness (No. 3: ''Don't get hurt when the world doesn't care about you. You graduate law school with glorious visions of the important work you'll do for the Southern Poverty Law Center, but find yourself photocopying briefs'').
One situation that ended up on the cutting-room floor was how to help a friend having an abortion. ''I have encountered it multiple times,'' she said, ''but it was a little too close to the bone, and I didn't want to blindside people.''
Most things that seem like an emergency or a disaster at age 21 are not, in fact, an emergency or a disaster, according to Ms. Brown (that's No. 390), and she suggests that freaking out is not the appropriate response to car trouble, wardrobe malfunctions, cats ingesting hairballs or anything involving fingernails.
Not that she doesn't sympathize. ''The thing that usually causes me anguish isn't 'My friends are getting married and I'm not,' '' she said. ''It's opening my crisper drawer, which smells foul because I was thinking, optimistically, that I would learn to cook kale, and instead I have a vegetal slurry.''
Along with her convictions, Ms. Brown is not without contradictions: Step No. 83 is ''Make a dope cheese plate'' (she sometimes reverts to the vernacular of a ''Girls'' episode), but step No. 275 is ''Anything that tastes really good -- think twice about.'' On the subject of office romances, she's stern (No. 163: ''Live your life as though everyone in the office has plastic, featureless doll crotches'') but forgiving (No. 162: ''Having a poorly considered liaison with a co-worker is the chickenpox of the working life, so you may as well get it over with'').
You will not catch her standing outside Tiffany & Co. like Audrey Hepburn (No. 204: ''If you don't have money to shop, do not window-shop as if that's a real thing''), but she admits that ''lots of times, Comcast has to call and ask nicely, then not nicely, for me to pay my cable bill.''
Ms. Brown now lives with real furniture (and a boyfriend), although her pantry still includes ''one responsible choice of cereal and one that says 'I'm a 7-year-old' .'' (This from a section of the book called ''Procuring Food So You Don't Die.'')
Before she went to Los Angeles for meetings with producers, she said, ''there was a lot of trying on various outfits and then sending pictures to every single person I know for critical feedback.''
A family friend eased her nerves. ''She was talking about times when you get invited to a party that is way above your fanciness pay grade. Her advice was to act like you've been there before and remember that you all arrived on the same guest list. So I did my best to be calm, to be myself and pretend that I was not about to die at any moment of excitement and anxiety.''
The option deal will certainly help fatten her 401(k), a concept that Ms. Brown hopes her contemporaries will embrace. Adults-in-training can trick themselves into contributing, with techniques like freezing their credit cards (No. 206: yes, literally encasing them in ice) to avoid spending beyond their means.
''I still don't feel like I'm an adult all the time,'' she said, ''but I'm not writing to exorcise my demons. I want people to have some useful information, and I don't want them to feel less-than. These ideas are not moral judgments.''
Indeed, part of her impetus in writing ''Adulting'' was to defend millennials against their reputation for being entitled and self-absorbed.
''The people I know in my age group are not aimless man-child caricatures,'' Ms. Brown said. ''They don't spend the bulk of their time Instagramming brunch entrees. They, like every generation, sometimes struggle and sometimes succeed in the complicated process of becoming an adult. Millennials can be a little narcissistic, although I don't think there's anything weird about our collective character. We're coming of age in a time that's tough. But far be it from me to deny the older generation the pleasure of complaining about the younger.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Kelly Williams Brown at her home in Portland, Ore. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LEAH NASH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ST8)
 PHOTO (ST9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (89%); BOOK REVIEWS (76%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (73%); ADVICE COLUMNS (71%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (67%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (64%); HEROIN (62%); COCAINE (60%); GRIEF COUNSELING (50%)

COMPANY: GRAND CENTRAL PUBLISHING (57%); FACEBOOK INC (54%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%)

PERSON: J J ABRAMS (64%); MARTHA STEWART (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (88%); SALEM, OR, USA (57%) OREGON, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2013



730 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 242 words

HEADLINE: Maddie Franco, David Bauer III

 BODY:
Elizabeth Maddison Franco, the daughter of Lauren S. Piper of Palm Beach, Fla., and Christopher P. Franco of Greenwich, Conn., was married Saturday to W. David Bauer III, a son of Virginia S. Bauer of Red Bank, N.J., and the late Mr. Bauer. The Rev. Kevin W. Wildes, a Roman Catholic priest, performed the ceremony at St. Agnes Church in Greenwich. 
Mrs. Bauer, 27, is known as Maddie. She is a director specializing in investor relations at Arden Asset Management in New York. She graduated from Georgetown.
Her father is a founding partner in Quincy International Capital, a merchant bank based in Greenwich and Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
Mr. Bauer, 28, is an investment banker with Goldman Sachs in New York, where he specializes in corporate advisory. He also graduated from Georgetown.
His mother is the chief executive of GTBM, a company in East Rutherford, N.J., that provides security software technology to other companies. She was the chief executive and secretary of the New Jersey Commerce, Economic Growth and Tourism Commission, from 2004-7, and a commissioner of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, from 2007-12. She is also a member of the board of trustees of the 9/11 Memorial Board. The groom's father, who died in the World Trade Center attacks on Sept. 11, 2001, was a managing director for Cantor Fitzgerald. The groom is a stepson of Donald H. Steckroth, a judge of the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of New Jersey.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); MERCHANT BANKING (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); RELIGION (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (72%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (72%); INVESTOR RELATIONS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (67%); PORT AUTHORITIES (67%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (64%)

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (64%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); CANTOR FITZGERALD LP (51%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (64%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (64%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (70%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (95%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2013



731 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1111 words

HEADLINE: America Can Take a Breather. And It Should.

BYLINE: By RICHARD N. HAASS. 
The president of the Council on Foreign Relations and the author, most recently, of ''Foreign Policy Begins at Home: The Case for Putting America's House in Order.''

 BODY:
THE United States is currently enjoying an unprecedented respite in the foreign policy arena -- a temporary relief from the normal rigors of history that allows us to take stock at home and abroad.
It may seem outlandish to claim that we're in the midst of a lull, given that America faces a civil war in Syria, an Iran that seems to be seeking nuclear weapons, an irresponsible North Korea that already possesses them, continuing threats from terrorists, a rising China and rapid climate change.
Yet the United States enjoys a respite all the same. For the three and a half centuries of the modern international era, great powers have almost always confronted rivals determined to defeat them and replace the global order they worked to bring about. In the last century, this process unfolded three times. The results were violent, costly and dangerous, and included two world wars and a cold war. 
Today, there are threats, but they tend to be regional, years away or limited in scale. None rises to the level of being global, immediate and existential. The United States faces no great-power rival. And this is likely to remain so for the foreseeable future.
The biggest strategic question facing America is how to extend this respite rather than squander it. This will require restraining foreign involvement and restoring domestic strength. We can no longer seek to remake countries in the Middle East and South Asia, as was tried at great cost and with little success in Iraq and Afghanistan.
Instead, we must revive the American economy, something that will not only improve the living standards of our citizens but also generate the resources to discourage would-be competitors from choosing the path of confrontation and to deal with them if they opt for confrontation all the same.
The Obama administration has embraced much of this thinking in its foreign policy, especially when it comes to exercising restraint in the greater Middle East. But it has done less well at home, where it has often held back from pushing much-needed reforms.
Still, the United States stands first among unequals. American primacy is, in part, a consequence of innate advantages: political stability, healthy demographics and commitment to the rule of law. We have a rich endowment of energy, minerals, water and arable land as well as considerable openness to immigrants who are responsible for a disproportionate amount of innovation.
There are excellent institutions of higher education, venture capital and a legal system that allows second chances in the wake of failure. And good relations with our immediate neighbors allow us to focus our foreign policy farther afield, rather than on our borders as most other countries must do.
None of the other major powers of this era -- China, Russia, Europe, Japan, India -- are tempted to challenge the United States for primacy. America's per-capita gross domestic product is at least six times that of China, and the United States spends more on defense than the next 10 countries combined.
Moreover, many potential future competitors depend in no small part on their access to American markets, technology, goods and services. They do not always agree with the United States, but they don't see it as implacably hostile or as an impediment to their own core objectives. And they are often preoccupied with and limited by their own domestic economic, social and political challenges.
China is the country most often cited as a potential challenger. But it is being held back by slowing economic growth, pervasive corruption, widespread environmental degradation, an aging population and a top-heavy political system. China and the other principal powers seek less to overthrow the existing international order than to join it or something like it. They are more interested in integration than in revolution.
This situation isn't cause for complacency. Primacy is not license to do as we please. A respite is, by definition, temporary -- a departure from history, not history's end. It allows a shift of emphasis, not withdrawal from the world.
Overseas, our attention should be focused on those places where America's interests are greatest and where our available policy tools -- the military, aid, trade and diplomacy -- can accomplish the most good. This means limiting wars of choice and wholesale efforts to remake societies like the invasion of Iraq in 2003 and the surge in Afghanistan in 2009.
It also means refraining from direct armed intervention in Syria's current civil war. And when it comes to Iran, we need to emphasize diplomacy, sanctions and other alternatives to military force to dissuade it from crossing the nuclear weapons threshold.
Most important, we should step up efforts to maintain stability in Asia and the Pacific Ocean, where this century's great powers could easily collide and where American diplomatic, military and economic tools are well suited to ensure that they do not. Modest increases in America's Air Force and naval presence can reassure allies like Japan and South Korea while sending implicit warnings to China and North Korea, and diplomacy can make clear that China is welcome to join new regional trade arrangements, reducing the possibility that the relationship will become adversarial.
At home, we must work to restore the foundations of American power. In many cases, this doesn't even require spending more -- often there is little relationship between our investments and the results.
The United States spends nearly twice as much as other industrialized nations per citizen on health care -- often with worse outcomes. We spend more per student on education than most other wealthy countries, with few results to show for it. Attracting top-quality teachers, rewarding them for success, and enabling parents and students to choose effective schools would be a better use of resources.
And with only modest government funds we could foster public-private partnerships to rebuild this country's often crumbling infrastructure, refashion immigration policy to give preference for visas and green cards to many more immigrants with advanced degrees and needed skills, and above all reduce long-term entitlement obligations, cutting the ratio of public debt to G.D.P.
These steps, along with individual and corporate tax reform, would facilitate a return to the high levels of economic growth that America enjoyed in much of the post-World War II era.
This is not a recipe for isolationism. Rather, it is a new grand strategy for America that views national security as a function of both foreign and domestic policy.
It has been said that a crisis is too valuable a thing to waste. So is a respite.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: American and Japanese ships in the East China Sea after a joint naval exercise in November 2012. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JENNIFER A. VILLALOVOS/U.S. NAVY, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); COLD WAR (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); IMMIGRATION (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (70%); LIVING STANDARDS (69%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (60%); TERRORISM (56%); VENTURE CAPITAL (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EAST CHINA SEA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (74%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); SYRIA (90%); INDIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2013



732 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2916 words

HEADLINE: A Side Trip on the Road to Clean Fuel

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL

 BODY:
STARTING when they became friends in freshman year at Emory University in Atlanta, Jonathan S. Wolfson and Harrison F. Dillon would take off into the mountains of Wyoming and Colorado for weeks at time. They spent their days hiking in the wilderness and their nights drinking bourbon by the campfire, talking big about how one day they would build a company that would help preserve the environment they both loved.
They graduated, and the backpacking trips grew shorter and further between. Mr. Dillon went on to earn a Ph.D. in genetics and a law degree, and ended up working as a biotech patent lawyer in Silicon Valley. Mr. Wolfson received law and business degrees from New York University and eventually started a software business. But the two still got together every year. And they kept talking about the company that, they imagined as time went on, would use biotechnology to create renewable energy.
''These were delusional rantings of kids,'' said Mr. Wolfson, who, like Mr. Dillon, is now 42. 
Then Mr. Dillon found microalgae, and delusional became real. Microalgae, a large and diverse group of single-celled plants, produce a variety of substances, including oils, and are thought to be responsible for most of the fossilized oil deposits in the earth. These, it seemed, were micro-organisms with potential. With prodding, they could be re-engineered to make fuel.
So in 2003, Mr. Wolfson packed up and moved from New York to Palo Alto, Calif., where Mr. Dillon lived. They started a company called Solazyme. In mythical Valley tradition, they worked in Mr. Dillon's garage, growing algae in test tubes. And they found a small knot of investors attracted by the prospect of compressing a multimillion-year process into a matter of days.
Now, a decade later, they have released into the marketplace their very first algae-derived oil produced at a commercial scale. Yet the destination for this oil -- pale, odorless and dispensed from a small matte-gold bottle with an eyedropper -- is not gas tanks, but the faces of women worried about their aging skin.
Sold under the brand name Algenist, the product, costing $79 for a one-ounce bottle, would seem to have nothing in common with oil refineries and transportation fuel. But along with other niche products that the company can sell at a premium, it may be just the thing that lets Solazyme coast past the point where so many other clean-tech companies have run out of gas: the so-called Valley of Death, where young businesses stall trying to shift to commercial-scale production.
For years, policy makers, environmentalists and entrepreneurs have trumpeted the promise of harnessing the power of the sun, wind, waves, municipal solid waste or, now, algae. There has been some success. Since 2007, United States energy consumption from renewable sources has grown nearly 35 percent, and now accounts for about 9 percent of the total, according to the Energy Information Administration.
But the gains have been punctuated with prominent failures. Once-promising clean-tech ventures that attracted hundreds of millions in federal support -- like the solar panel maker Solyndra, the cellulosic ethanol maker Range Fuels and the battery supplier A123 Systems -- have failed. While ethanol, derived from crops like corn and sugar cane, has become a multibillion-dollar industry, it threatens to drive up the price of those plants for food and cannot yet replace conventional fuel. The next generation of biofuels, based on nonfood plants, is still struggling to take off.
Venture capital, which once gushed to renewable-energy start-ups like crude from an oil well, has slowed. In contrast to software-based companies like Instagram or Facebook, these new energy businesses burn through staggering amounts of capital over many years for research and early-stage equipment before even demonstrating their promise, much less turning a profit. Worldwide in 2012, venture capital investing in clean technologies fell by almost one-fourth, to $7.4 billion, from $9.61 billion in 2011, according to the Cleantech Group's i3 Platform, a proprietary database.
''These are very high-innovation, capital-intensive, long-term businesses, and new-energy technology is a very new field,'' said David Danielson, a former venture capitalist who is assistant secretary for energy efficiency and renewable energy at the Energy Department. ''We need a new model for how these projects are going to get financed and commercialized.''
In other words, clean-energy companies can't rely only on the classic venture-capital approach in which investors demand a fat, fast return. Mr. Danielson said that to succeed, companies need a combination of government research-and-development grants, industrial partnerships and a willingness to pursue higher-value product lines en route to entering larger, but lower-margin markets.
''The problem with a lot of clean-tech deals is that they have been about the way you make things in high volume or in production, which means you can't prove out the ideas unless you build factories and actually make things in volume,'' said Andrew S. Rappaport, a venture capitalist who is a board member of Alta Devices, a solar film start-up.
That company is one of a handful that, like Solazyme, is pursuing niche markets for its core product, in its instance developing fast-charging cases for smartphones and tablets, until it can produce low-cost, commercial quantities of solar materials for homes and businesses. A Bay Area start-up called Amyris, meanwhile, has shifted its genetically engineered yeast toward chemicals and cosmetic ingredients as it tries to build a biofuel business.
For Solazyme, the hope is that by manipulating strains of algae to make proteins, complex sugars and oils that can serve a variety of functions -- like moisturizing skin or replacing eggs and butter in brioches -- it will stay afloat as it struggles to reach the next stage. And that next step is making huge quantities of renewable energy products at a price that can compete with fossil fuels.
One obvious question is whether this strategy will work. Another is, will it work too well?
SOLAZYME'S story -- which is far from done -- shows just how circuitous the road to creating profitable energy technologies can be.
By the time Mr. Dillon and Mr. Wolfson began their company in 2003, researchers had mapped the genome of algae, a feat that started the partners on their quest to redesign the plants' genetic codes to produce valuable commodities. In addition to oils, algae naturally produce other substances, including hydrogen and oxygen. At first, Mr. Dillon and Mr. Wolfson considered focusing on hydrogen because it seemed that carmakers would be designing hydrogen-powered vehicles. But they soon dismissed that approach because the economic and technical challenges of capturing, storing and transporting hydrogen proved insurmountable -- and the vehicles never took off.
The Solazyme partners realized they needed to make a product that could use existing equipment and infrastructure -- so-called drop-in fuels that wouldn't require car or aircraft manufacturers to make new engines or fuel refiners to use new equipment. Fuel oil seemed the best bet, and they set about trying to unlock the mechanisms that the plants use to make it.
The problem with producing fuel oil is that volume is king. Oil producers generally make only a few dollars on each barrel they sell, so they make enormous profits only by selling billions of barrels. It didn't matter if Solazyme made a terrific, carbon-neutral product -- or if it made it ingeniously. If it couldn't make enough, the business would never fly.
Nowhere in the clean-tech sector is the conundrum of scaling up more evident than in biofuel. Cellulosic fuel may finally be close to achieving real scale: the Energy Department, which has sometimes been overly optimistic in the past, predicts that there will be 80 million gallons in commercial production by 2015, and at least one company, KiOR, has begun shipping cost-competitive cellulosic biofuel to American customers, with others expected to follow soon. But the Energy Department is supporting research on using organisms like yeast and bacteria to make fuels that can directly replace conventional gasoline, and does not expect them to hit commercial scale until 2017. Those using algae will take even longer, until 2022, energy officials predict.
At Solazyme, the partners' early realization of the challenge spurred them to step up testing. They poked and nudged the algae, trying to produce something that mimicked existing fuel oil. They also re-engineered the microorganisms to see what else could come out.
''The point was still a straight line to fuels, but it started to be clear how long this was going to take,'' Mr. Wolfson said, describing the company's rapid evolution toward developing multiple product lines. ''This was going to be longer and harder than all of our discussions about starting a company.''
The big discovery was that algae, depending on the strain, could make oils that, biochemically, looked a lot like others found in nature or already in use in the marketplace. And industries like cosmetics, food and petrochemicals would pay more for each gallon, or milliliter, of output. All of the oils in question, whether destined to become gear lubricants or salad dressings, have a similar molecular backbone. But properties like melt point, saturation level or energy storage could be manipulated by adding or subtracting carbon atoms or controlling the location and connection of fatty acids and hydrogen atoms.
But there was a catch: the partners had sold investors on an energy business, not one that made cosmetics, nutritional supplements and soap. They had also told their board that they would be able to make fuel through photosynthesis, a process then considered ''sexy,'' Mr. Wolfson said. That's because the sunlight that would fuel the algae's growth was free; other methods of goosing the algae included adding food sources like sugar. But growing algae where they could get enough sunlight required huge ponds of water and the risk of plant loss.
After several late-night conversations and scrambling to come up with an alternative plan, Mr. Wolfson and Mr. Dillon met with the board in a tiny conference room near the entrance to their Menlo Park lab and offered a new plan. They would grow algae in tanks in the dark in a process called heterotrophic fermentation to make the specialty oils for ancillary markets that would pave the long road to fuel.
They were worried the board might desert them, Mr. Dillon said, but their main backers, Jerry Fiddler, an angel investor who is still the board chairman, and Dan Miller and Roger Strauch of the Roda Group, the company's largest investor, went along. The three, who had already invested roughly a combined $1.3 million, agreed on the spot to finance further testing of the idea.
Not everyone agreed with the change. Several board members eventually left, and several established venture capitalists who had been interested in leading rounds of financing refused to do so because the founders insisted on pursuing multiple markets, Mr. Wolfson said.
''It's very true that if you try to do too many things and you don't focus as a company, you'll fail -- focus actually does matter,'' Mr. Wolfson said. ''That's portfolio theory for them. 'I'm making a bet on you on fuel; I want you to focus on that.' What they didn't really understand is our platform is a focused platform to produce oils.''
IT has taken several years of experimenting -- starting in a lab with equipment bought on eBay and repaired by Mr. Fiddler -- to develop that platform.
The team genetically engineers the microbes to produce oils with the different properties that a customer might want. One might be an oil that doesn't explode in a transformer. Another might be a fat with the mouth feel of cocoa butter in chocolate, or something that mimics palm kernel oil to go into soap. Starting with a one-milliliter vial, technicians make the algae multiply by suspending them in a broth rich in sugar and other nutrients, moving them into progressively larger vats until they reach the desired volume, anywhere from five to 600,000 liters.
The scientists then deprive the algae of nitrogen, which halts their division. Under this stress, they begin to produce oil, a protective response. The oil swells their tiny cells, up to 85 percent of their mass, in a kind of microscopic version of producing foie gras.
''It's not a very healthy cell'' at the end of the process, said Peter J. Licari, Solazyme's chief technology officer. But the process could be one of the company's competitive advantages over other approaches. In open-pond growth, for instance, the cells often yield no more than 15 percent oil, Mr. Licari said.
The resulting liquid is then fed through a series of tanks, rollers and other equipment that squeeze out the oil, leaving behind a mass that is mostly cell walls. No matter the oil, the process varies little, Mr. Licari said, and is easily adapted to make the complex sugars -- polysaccharides -- that went into the original Algenist skin care line.
The company has a multiyear agreement with Mitsui, the Japanese conglomerate, to tailor oils for chemical and industrial markets. In a joint venture with Solazyme, the Brazilian agricultural and food giant Bunge is building a plant next to its sugar cane refinery in south central Brazil; it will use the sugar to feed the algae, which it expects to make up to 30 million gallons a year of oil for soaps and other products. Solazyme also has an agreement to develop oils for Unilever to be used in soap, personal care and nutritional products.
On the cosmetics side, the Algenist line has been a hit at Sephora and QVC, where executives say customers are particularly attracted to the story of an accidental discovery by lab scientists working on green energy.
''We continue to tell this alternative story about this very interesting ingredient that's come from a very unlikely source in the world of skin care,'' said Claudia Lucas, director of beauty merchandising at QVC.
Solazyme executives say they will get to the fuel business eventually. By producing algae-derived oils at a commercial scale at a reasonable price, they hope to entice established companies to invest in plants and equipment so that the fuel can work as a volume business. But for now the focus is on the higher-value markets.
''The higher returns we can show out of each plant to start out with, the faster we can get plants financed and built,'' Mr. Wolfson said. The company expects to charge roughly 30 percent more for its fuels and chemicals than they cost to make, and 40 percent more for its nutritional products. But it can get 60 percent more for the cosmetic oils.
Whether the company can build a profitable business is an open question. Analysts say it has amassed an impressive list of industrial partners and investors -- including Chevron -- but its operating figures suggest there is still more promise than delivery.
Last year, the company had a net loss of $83 million on $44 million in sales. Its stock price is $12.62, well below its initial public offering price of $18 a share in 2011 and its high of about $26. Like many renewable-energy ventures, Solazyme has relied on government income -- it used to supply the military with small amounts of expensive diesel -- but in the first quarter this year, revenue for research programs dropped, driven by a decline in government grants. It is also taking on debt, adding roughly $185 million earlier this year.
EVEN so, analysts are generally bullish about the company's prospects, despite some who express skepticism that Solazyme will ever develop the fuels.
''Fuels is still an opportunity for them,'' said Rob Stone, a research analyst who tracks clean tech at Cowen & Company. He added that because the new, commercial-scale manufacturing capacity could be used entirely to satisfy demand in the higher-value markets, it might not make sense for Solazyme to use up its production space to make lower-margin fuels. ''I think they could make a very large company without ever doing much at all in the fuel business,'' he said.
It is a point that Mr. Wolfson comes close to conceding, saying that the entry to commercial fuel production is years away, and even then might be in making fuel additives rather than the drop-ins they have been pursuing. That possibility doesn't seem to bother anyone around the office.
Executives seem almost more excited about their ventures into nutrition, making low-saturated fats and oils without transfats. A visit to the company's headquarters in South San Francisco included a multicourse lunch highlighting Almagine, a powdered fat and protein supplement meant to replace eggs and saturated fats. Solazyme is developing it through a partnership with Roquette, a starch processor. Included in the tasting were salad dressings, Alfredo sauce for pasta, brioches, shortbread cookies and ice cream, all with lower saturated fat and calories and higher protein contents than standard versions.
It's a far cry from the campfire rantings of two college friends out to save the environment. But now they have a new crusade. "I think the difference that this company will make in food alone will be enormous," Mr. Dillon said. Or, as Mr. Fiddler put it: ''Even if we never succeed in energy, food is hugely valuable and hugely beneficial to the world.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Solazyme wants to develop oil derived from algae, above, as an alternative fuel. To help pay for the effort, it is first putting the oil to use in other products. Jonathan Wolfson, below, is a co-founder. (BU1)
Algae samples at Solazyme. Microalgae, a large and diverse group of single-cell plants, are thought to be responsible for most fossilized oil deposits.
 Algae, three ways: Beyond using algae oil in a skin care product, top, Solazyme is developing flour derived from algae for use in cooking, center, as it keeps pursuing the oil's potential for fuel. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GENETIC ENGINEERING (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); SEAWEED & ALGAE (89%); SOLAR ENERGY (88%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (88%); BIOFUELS (86%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); HIKING (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (76%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (76%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (75%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (75%); CONSUMPTION (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); PATENTS (71%); BIOTECHNOLOGY PATENTS (70%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (69%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (68%)

COMPANY: SOLAZYME INC (54%)

TICKER: SZYM (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324199 ALL OTHER PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) COLORADO, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2013



733 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 376 words

HEADLINE: Health Care Systems, Lost in Translation

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Robert Frank's ideas about the exportability of Swedish health care to the United States are fine, from an economist's perspective (''What Sweden Can Tell Us About Obamacare,'' Economic View, June 16). But they are not plausible politically. 
Health policies in Sweden and in most Western countries reflect rational approaches to a collective problem affecting society. These require a political culture of collaboration over political partisanship. The political culture of the United States, however, rewards partisan distinctions and increasingly penalizes cooperation and precludes collaboration. So does the adversarial style that characterizes relationships between providers and public interest groups speaking for consumers.
Obamacare doesn't make much of a dent in the problem because it puts providers' interests ahead of economic rationality and a comprehensive approach to society's needs. This is particularly evident in continuing fee-for-service incentives and a failure to effect serious cost containment.
As a political scientist often skeptical of economists' approaches, I surprise myself by wishing that the views of Professor Frank and his economist colleagues could prevail. But, alas, that is not likely in my grandchildren's lifetime.
MARTIN O. HEISLER, PH.D.
Lake Oswego, Ore., June 16
The writer is a professor emeritus in the department of government and politics at the University of Maryland.
To the Editor:
Robert Frank extols the health of the health care system in Sweden -- run by the government as part of the cradle-to-grave panacea created there many years ago.
But there are two glaring omissions. The column doesn't mention the much higher income tax rates that Swedes pay their government, or the fact that Sweden is a small country with a mostly homogeneous population, while the United States has many large, sprawling cities and a more multicultural population.
What Sweden is really telling us is that if you raise tax rates high enough and add a value-added tax to your economy, health care will work out just fine for all. And everyone knows how efficient our government would be in running a gigantic health care system.
MATILDA DUMBRILL
Orange, Conn.
Letters for Sunday Business may be sent to sunbiz@nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BILL MAYER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (89%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICS (77%); WRITERS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); VALUE ADDED TAX (63%); INCOME TAX (63%); GRANDCHILDREN (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SWEDEN (96%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2013



734 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; THE BOSS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 586 words

HEADLINE: A Philosophy of Work

BYLINE: By LEE BOWES. 
As told to Patricia R. Olsen.

 BODY:
I SPENT most of my childhood in Boston. My parents were liberals who were very involved in social causes. My four siblings became artists. One brother, who has died, was a painter, and a second one still is. The third one writes, and my sister is a musician. Starting around the age of 9, I took private violin lessons and sang in a choir. Then in high school, my sister and I took a trolley after classes to a music conservatory for additional lessons.
When I enrolled at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst, I continued singing and I played in the school orchestra, but I wanted to follow a different path from my siblings. I acted somewhat like a diva when I was involved in music, and I always felt better about myself when I was giving back. My parents had instilled in us the value of helping those less privileged. In high school, I tutored inner-city students in Roxbury, Mass., and read to children at Boston Children's Hospital who had birth defects. In college, I lived in the Watts neighborhood of Los Angeles to conduct research for my thesis. 
I majored in sociology, graduating in 1973, then spent a year at a nonprofit that counseled young probationers and ran educational programs for them. I left to attend Columbia University for a master's in social work. I took a course on social policy with Sumner Rosen, an economist friend of my father's from his days as a leader of a teachers union, and he became my mentor. He taught that work should be the central social policy as opposed to giving people handouts. That strongly influenced me.
After graduating in 1976, I worked for two years in a government jobs program that placed low-income and long-term unemployed people in jobs, and in 1978 I got a job as executive director at another nonprofit that found jobs for hard-to-place workers. While there, I received a Ph.D. in sociology from Boston University and met my future husband, Peter Cove, a co-worker.
Welfare recipients told us that they wanted to work instead of receiving benefits. Armed with calculations, I was able to show municipal governments that we could reduce the welfare rolls by finding jobs for these clients. But when we raised money from private companies to offer these workers temporary-to-permanent jobs, the government viewed that as a reason to pay us less. I had to convince them of the error in their logic.
Not all of my father's liberal views wore off on me. Over lunch with him one day, I mentioned that I'd had to fire a few employees at the nonprofit. He said that if he could, he'd fire me for doing that. I said, ''But Dad, these were no-show workers.'' He said they probably had a good reason for not showing up.
Peter and I married in 1984, and he left the organization that year to start America Works, a welfare-to-work, for-profit staffing agency that relied on state grants at the time. In 1987, I left and joined Peter there as C.E.O., and we expanded our services to other workers, including veterans, former prisoners and the mentally and physically disabled. I've since assumed the title of president as well. We have five offices in New York City and nine others around the country.
Our sister staffing agency, America on Demand, provides services at a higher level and employs workers with more skills. I'm also the C.E.O. of this company. In 2005, Peter founded yet another organization, the Work First Foundation. He's an adviser to America Works and America on Demand, helping to formulate policy and further our mission to effect social change.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: LEE BOWES: Chief executive of America Works, based in New York AGE 61 MEMORABLE VACATION Exchanging homes with a family in Italy CHARITY PRIZE SHE WON Print of a horse photo taken by Linda McCartney (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD WARREN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); MUSIC (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); SOCIOLOGY (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (88%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (76%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); FUNDRAISING (76%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (72%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (71%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (70%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (68%); CIVIL SERVICES (68%); CITY LIFE (68%); CHILDREN'S HOSPITALS (67%); CITY GOVERNMENT (67%); EXECUTIVES (64%); LABOR UNIONS (64%); CONGENITAL DISORDERS (52%); TEACHER UNIONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2013



735 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1115 words

HEADLINE: Don't Count on Calorie Counts

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI

 BODY:
THE chicken salad hero at Lenny's, a chain in New York, has 213 more calories than the tuna salad on the same kind of bread. I did no research to bring you this information. On the big menu board at the Lenny's around the corner from me, where I sometimes grab a perfunctory lunch, the calorie counts of every item are clearly posted. The city made this mandatory for such restaurants about five years ago, hoping that informed gluttons might be reformed gluttons: that if we had more knowledge about where our efforts to slim down were going wrong, we'd have more power to change them.
And yet four out of every five lunches at Lenny's, I get the chicken salad, all 879 calories of it, because there's something more persuasive than nutritional data. It's called mayonnaise. I can taste it in the chicken salad but not in the leaner tuna, partly explaining the extra damage -- and the exaggerated siren's call -- of the former. The stomach wants what it wants, even if the love handles pay a pendulous price for it. 
McMuffin by McMuffin, Frosty by Frosty, we Americans are waddling toward the moment when calorie counts like the ones at Lenny's are posted in every chain restaurant across the nation. Starbucks, which already advertises such information in cities that require it, announced last week that it would do so throughout the country before the end of this month, a recognition that the clock was ticking anyway. As part of the Affordable Care Act, any restaurant in America with at least 20 locations must follow Starbucks's lead, perhaps next year. (The precise date hasn't been fixed.)
Soon enough, those of us taking in more calories than we should be and wearing pants roomier than we'd like to won't be able to say we weren't told. But is ignorance really our enemy, or are appetite, compulsion and ingrained habit the chief culprits?
These aren't just idle questions but matters of immediate relevance in the war against obesity, the stakes of which were just raised. On the same day last week that Starbucks made its announcement, the American Medical Association voted to classify obesity as a disease. This means that in the eyes of the largest physicians' group in the United States, the roughly 90 million Americans who are formally considered obese -- that's about 30 percent of the population -- aren't just in imperfect health. They're downright ill, and we need to heal them.
Calorie postings are one of public health officials' attempts to do that. The results so far aren't especially encouraging.
Brian Elbel, a population-health expert at New York University's school of medicine, examined fast-food receipts from four chains in New York both before the city law went into effect and after, to see if customers were altering their orders to reduce the calories they consumed per visit to the restaurants. He found no meaningful difference, and his subsequent research in Philadelphia, which in 2010 implemented a mandate like New York's, echoes and bolsters that conclusion.
''It's becoming increasingly clear that nothing big is happening for a large group of people,'' Elbel told me.
Other evidence isn't quite so grim. New York City commissioned a broader survey than Elbel's, looking at thousands of receipts from 11 chains. At three of them -- Au Bon Pain, KFC and McDonald's -- there was proof of calorie reductions after the law. But at seven there wasn't, and at Subway, which was promoting footlong sandwiches for $5 during the post-law survey period, calorie consumption per visit actually increased.
''The effect of calorie counts is beneficial,'' Thomas Farley, the city's health commissioner, said during a phone interview on Friday. ''But it's small and somewhat spotty and can be overwhelmed by the marketing of the restaurant.''
Yet another study, confined to Starbucks stores in New York, noted a 6 percent decrease in customers' intake of calories after the posting began. But it also suggested some vexing limitations to the impact of advertised calorie counts.
''Calorie reductions were highest in high-income, high-education neighborhoods (where we believe obesity rates to be lower),'' Phillip Leslie, one of the study's authors, said to me in an e-mail. On top of which, the Starbucks customers as an overall group were more affluent than the fast-food customers whose unchanged behavior Elbel evaluated. ''It raises a very important concern,'' said Leslie, an economist at the University of California, Los Angeles. ''The people who tend to be most responsive to information may be those we least aim to target.''
BRYAN BOLLINGER, who also worked on that study, drew my attention to something else in it. For the most part, Starbucks customers ordering sugary, creamy coffee beverages kept on doing so, seemingly because they had already figured that the drinks were fattening and had made a flabby peace with that. But customers indeed adjusted their food orders upon realizing that a pastry could easily exceed 400 calories. They hadn't bargained on, or planned for, that.
''What really matters is what your prior beliefs are,'' said Bollinger, who teaches marketing at New York University's Stern School of Business.
What also matters is how much of a nudge you're given.
Cheryl Healton, the dean of global public health at New York University, told me that education and information could be effective in influencing a discrete, relatively easy behavior, like persuading someone to get vaccinated.
''But when it's habitual and even addictive behavior, you're in a whole new ballgame,'' she said.
Healton, an authority on tobacco use in particular, noted that the principal reasons for the remarkable decrease in smoking in New York City and elsewhere over the last few decades weren't ominous commercials and warning labels. They were taxes and the bans on indoor smoking. People kicked the habit when it became onerous, in cost and convenience, not to.
Farley, the health commissioner, agreed. ''The structural things were more effective for smoking than the information was,'' he said. And that -- not any itch to play nanny -- is why he and Mayor Michael Bloomberg support such measures as new taxes on sodas, which may never happen, and a ban on sugary drinks over 16 ounces, which is in legal limbo.
We should certainly continue to give posted calorie counts a whirl. Even a tiny impact is better than none. But we also need a more forceful kick in our amply cushioned rears. We're not as plump as we are because we've never had our eyes opened to the wages of a Whopper. We're this way because it's all too easy, in a pang of hunger and collapse of resolve, to turn a blind eye to the toll. I know whereof I speak. My neighborhood Lenny's does, too.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BEN WISEMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); OBESITY (89%); FAST FOOD (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2013



736 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 190 words

HEADLINE: The Chatter

 BODY:
''The Fed isn't just the U.S.'s central bank. It's the world's central bank.'' 
Mark Frey, chief strategist at the Cambridge Mercantile Group. In the weeks since the Federal Reserve's chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, first indicated that the central bank might start to pare back its support for the economy, markets in Asia, Europe and Latin America have fallen even more sharply than those in the United States.
''Priceless. Everything is priceless.''
Adam Lovell, curator of the Detroit Historical Museum, while unzipping the dusty plastic cover over a 1963 Ford Cougar II concept car. As Detroit moves toward a possible bankruptcy filing, some worry that a collection of 62 lovingly maintained classic cars, donated to the city since the 1950s, will be sold off.
''Whiskey, tequila: it's always available. Not to mention the kegerator.''
Devon Giddon, director of communications for the lifestyle publication Thrillist, which has two fully stocked bars and a rotating schedule of liquor tastings, as well as a keg inside a refrigerator. Small, high-growth tech companies have a reputation for showering employees with free food, coffee and alcohol.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (74%); MOTOR VEHICLES (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); CONCEPT CARS (69%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (69%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); ASIA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2013



737 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 380 words

HEADLINE: Obama to Unveil Climate Plan on Tuesday

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

 BODY:
President Obama said Saturday that he would make a major speech on Tuesday to unveil his second-term plan to curb the causes and effects of climate change, a plan expected to include limits on carbon dioxide emissions from existing power plants. 
''This Tuesday, I'll lay out my vision for where I believe we need to go -- a national plan to reduce carbon pollution, prepare our country for the impacts of climate change, and lead global efforts to fight it,'' Mr. Obama said in a video released by the White House. ''This is a serious challenge -- but it's one uniquely suited to America's strengths.''
Mr. Obama's decision to use his executive authority to regulate utilities reflects a determination that he has no prospect of passing such sweeping policies through Congress. But while the Supreme Court validated the power of the executive to regulate carbon emissions without further legislation, the president's move may draw lawsuits and other challenges from industry and Republicans citing the economic costs.
The administration has already moved to curb emissions of new power plants, but expanding regulation to existing utilities would be among the most consequential decisions the president could make. More than a third of greenhouse gas emissions in the United States are produced by electric power facilities.
Mr. Obama did not say in his video what would be included in his Tuesday speech, but administration officials have previously said it would include proposed power plant rules. Because of the complicated regulatory process, it could take until the end of his second term to put them in place.
''There's no single step that can reverse the effects of climate change,'' Mr. Obama said in the video. ''But when it comes to the world we leave our children, we owe it to them to do what we can.''
As word of Mr. Obama's plans spread in recent days, Republicans criticized the president for risking an already fragile economic recovery. ''I think this is absolutely crazy,'' Speaker John A. Boehner said earlier in the week. ''Why would you want to increase the cost of energy and kill more American jobs at a time when the American people are still asking the question, where are the jobs?''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); VIDEO INDUSTRY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (77%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (77%); ENERGY REGULATION (73%); AIR POLLUTION (72%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (71%); SUPREME COURTS (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (69%); LITIGATION (69%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); JOHN BOEHNER (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2013



738 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1202 words

HEADLINE: Social Networking in the 1600s

BYLINE: By TOM STANDAGE. 
The digital editor at The Economist and the author of the forthcoming book ''Writing on the Wall: Social Media -- The First 2,000 Years.''

 BODY:
LONDON -- SOCIAL networks stand accused of being enemies of productivity. According to one popular (if questionable) infographic circulating online, the use of Facebook, Twitter and other such sites at work costs the American economy $650 billion each year. Our attention spans are atrophying, our test scores declining, all because of these ''weapons of mass distraction.''
Yet such worries have arisen before. In England in the late 1600s, very similar concerns were expressed about another new media-sharing environment, the allure of which seemed to be undermining young people's ability to concentrate on their studies or their work: the coffeehouse. It was the social-networking site of its day.
Like coffee itself, coffeehouses were an import from the Arab world. England's first coffeehouse opened in Oxford in the early 1650s, and hundreds of similar establishments sprang up in London and other cities in the following years. People went to coffeehouses not just to drink coffee, but to read and discuss the latest pamphlets and news-sheets and to catch up on rumor and gossip. 
Coffeehouses were also used as post offices. Patrons would visit their favorite coffeehouses several times a day to check for new mail, catch up on the news and talk to other coffee drinkers, both friends and strangers. Some coffeehouses specialized in discussion of particular topics, like science, politics, literature or shipping. As customers moved from one to the other, information circulated with them.
The diary of Samuel Pepys, a government official, is punctuated by variations of the phrase ''thence to the coffeehouse.'' His entries give a sense of the wide-ranging conversations he found there. The ones for November 1663 alone include references to ''a long and most passionate discourse between two doctors,'' discussions of Roman history, how to store beer, a new type of nautical weapon and an approaching legal trial.
One reason these conversations were so lively was that social distinctions were not recognized within the coffeehouse walls. Patrons were not merely permitted but encouraged to strike up conversations with strangers from entirely different walks of life. As the poet Samuel Butler put it, ''gentleman, mechanic, lord, and scoundrel mix, and are all of a piece.''
Not everyone approved. As well as complaining that Christians had abandoned their traditional beer in favor of a foreign drink, critics worried that coffeehouses were keeping people from productive work. Among the first to sound the alarm, in 1677, was Anthony Wood, an Oxford academic. ''Why doth solid and serious learning decline, and few or none follow it now in the University?'' he asked. ''Answer: Because of Coffea Houses, where they spend all their time.''
Meanwhile, Roger North, a lawyer, bemoaned, in Cambridge, the ''vast Loss of Time grown out of a pure Novelty. For who can apply close to a Subject with his Head full of the Din of a Coffee-house?'' These places were ''the ruin of many serious and hopeful young gentlemen and tradesmen,'' according to a pamphlet, ''The Grand Concern of England Explained,'' published in 1673.
All of which brings to mind the dire warnings issued by many modern commentators. A common cause for concern, both then and now, is that new media-sharing platforms pose a particular danger to the young.
But what was the actual impact of coffeehouses on productivity, education and innovation? Rather than enemies of industry, coffeehouses were in fact crucibles of creativity, because of the way in which they facilitated the mixing of both people and ideas. Members of the Royal Society, England's pioneering scientific society, frequently retired to coffeehouses to extend their discussions. Scientists often conducted experiments and gave lectures in coffeehouses, and because admission cost just a penny (the price of a single cup), coffeehouses were sometimes referred to as ''penny universities.'' It was a coffeehouse argument among several fellow scientists that spurred Isaac Newton to write his ''Principia Mathematica,'' one of the foundational works of modern science.
Coffeehouses were platforms for innovation in the world of business, too. Merchants used coffeehouses as meeting rooms, which gave rise to new companies and new business models. A London coffeehouse called Jonathan's, where merchants kept particular tables at which they would transact their business, turned into the London Stock Exchange. Edward Lloyd's coffeehouse, a popular meeting place for ship captains, shipowners and traders, became the famous insurance market Lloyd's.
And the economist Adam Smith wrote much of his masterpiece ''The Wealth of Nations'' in the British Coffee House, a popular meeting place for Scottish intellectuals, among whom he circulated early drafts of his book for discussion.
No doubt there was some time-wasting going on in coffeehouses. But their merits far outweighed their drawbacks. They provided a lively social and intellectual environment, which gave rise to a stream of innovations that shaped the modern world. It is no coincidence that coffee remains the traditional drink of collaboration and networking today.
Now the spirit of the coffeehouse has been reborn in our social-media platforms. They, too, are open to all comers, and allow people from different walks of life to meet, debate, and share information with friends and strangers alike, forging new connections and sparking new ideas. Such conversations may be entirely virtual, but they have enormous potential to bring about change in the real world.
Although some bosses deride the use of social media in the workplace as ''social notworking,'' more farsighted companies are embracing ''enterprise social networks,'' essentially corporate versions of Facebook, to encourage collaboration, discover hidden talents and knowledge among their employees, and reduce the use of e-mail. A study published in 2012 by McKinsey & Company, the consulting firm, found that the use of social networking within companies increased the productivity of ''knowledge workers'' by 20 to 25 percent.
The use of social media in education, meanwhile, is backed by studies showing that students learn more effectively when they interact with other learners. OpenWorm, a pioneering computational biology project started from a single tweet, now involves collaborators around the world who meet via Google Hangouts. Who knows what other innovations are brewing in the Internet's global coffeehouse?
There is always an adjustment period when new technologies appear. During this transitional phase, which can take several years, technologies are often criticized for disrupting existing ways of doing things. But the lesson of the coffeehouse is that modern fears about the dangers of social networking are overdone. This kind of media, in fact, has a long history: Martin Luther's use of pamphlets in the Reformation casts new light on the role of social media in the Arab Spring, for example, and there are parallels between the gossipy poems that circulated in pre-Revolutionary France and the uses of microblogging in modern China.
As we grapple with the issues raised by new technologies, there is much we can learn from the past.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Men enjoying a drink and a chat in a 17th-century coffeehouse. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HULTON ARCHIVE/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (91%); SOCIAL MEDIA (90%); BEER & ALE (78%); HISTORY (75%); COFFEE & TEA (74%); WRITERS (72%); COFFEE (69%); RELIGION (50%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (58%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) UNITED STATES (92%); ENGLAND (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2013



739 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; READER COMMENTS | IN QUEENS, A CASINO BET GONE WRONG; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 956 words

HEADLINE: 

 BODY:
In last Sunday's Metropolitan section, Peter Applebome revisited the case of Jesse Friedman, who was convicted in the 1980s, along with his father, Arnold, of child sexual abuse. The Nassau County district attorney's office has been re-examining the original prosecution and will soon issue a report. Readers responded on nytimes.com; a selection of their comments is below.
It is about time. The accounts of the alleged abuse didn't make any sense. No one observed anything. Parents didn't notice anything unusual in their children's behavior. No one complained of any physical pain. 
GMP, New York, NY
Like many others, I saw the movie about the Friedmans. I doubted their guilt then and I doubt it now. Getting justice in America means that a jury finds one way or the other. It doesn't mean that right was done.
We have seen psychological profiles done of every type of criminal there is. How many miscarriages of justice do we have to see over the years before we create a profile of the kind of prosecutor who is a danger to a well ordered society?
I remember the late 1970s and the early 1980s all right. I remember the fear, the stupidity, and the cupidity of the psychologists who could get a child to say anything for a fee. Most of all I remember ''Recovered Memories,'' which came back decades after the alleged sexual abuse. Plenty of fathers were burned for that and not just a few priests, I think.
Joel Friedlander,
Huntington Station, New York
In 1990, my then-husband and I were accused of abusing our infant daughter. She had a seizure disorder and had fractured her skull during a violent seizure. We had not seen this happen, so we could not give any coherent reason when the police and the child protective authorities asked us how she had been hurt. We were forced into ''guilty'' pleas in court. Our marriage ended and we have been at sword's point ever since.
The worst of it is that none of the authorities' actions did anything to protect our child. She suffered terribly from the dissolution of our family and was traumatized by her treatment in a foster home. Over all, the motivation of police, C.P.S., Family Court and lawyers was to protect themselves and profit as much as they could.
Annie N., Kingston, NY
What I am about to write is complete conjecture, but if Arnold Friedman was who they say he was, it is likely that Jesse Friedman was aware of his predatory behavior and, as an adult, legally responsible for reporting his father's actions. He may have even helped his father to continue abusing children, but I doubt he took part. The whole notion that being sexually abused as a child can make you a pedophile is utter nonsense. What it can do is make you completely submissive to your abuser out of unimaginable fear, and that can be a psychological scar that stays for life. If he did partake, it was not due to desire, but fear. Does that make the crime any less horrific from the child's perspective? I don't know.
I think it's really sad if Friedman is truly innocent -- his childhood ruined by a pedophile father and his life ruined by an incompetent judicial system.
Rohan, Jericho
Readers also responded to Ginia Bellafante's Big City column, about the effects of the Resorts World Casino on the neighborhood of South Ozone Park, Queens.
Casinos prey on the poor, weak, desperate and addiction prone. The racinos are particularly bad, because they make no pretense about appealing to the well-heeled with glitzy shows or cuisine. They exist to milk the masses.
Cuomo would now add four more full-blown ''resort'' casinos across upstate, with a promise to site a few more in N.Y.C. in the future.
I personally find it repugnant that the state takes advantage of many of its citizens who are least able to afford or resist the call of the slots.
If you really think that casinos bring economic revitalization, and Atlantic City is not enough proof to the contrary, come to western N.Y. and look at Buffalo, Salamanca and Niagara Falls. All are decrepit and downtrodden as ever with their Seneca Nation casinos.
Don1776, West Valley, NY
Casino or no casino, Ozone Park is still what it always was. Even in the glory days of racing when 40,000+ would pack Aqueduct racetrack, the neighborhood would be largely unaffected economically. Today standing in front of Ozone Pizza or the bake shop on Liberty and 104th Street, one can watch the Ozone Park melting pot walk by. Real people doing real things.
As for the Resorts Casino, it is the land of the zombies.
Ding ding ding ding $$$$.
Bobby G, ny ny
My career took me to Reno, Nev., for a seven-year stint. Casinos are integrated into Nevada culture and active in the community. Most of their jobs are lower wage service jobs -- the main benefit is tax revenue to the state. With gaming in 48 states, its honestly better to allow them in your community or lose the revenue to another state. In reality, it's just another 24-hour business. They are not the savior of communities.
Jim McGrath, West Pittston, PA
Government would cut you up and sell the body parts if it could get away with it. It is one of the shames of public policy that government will sell the citizens for tax revenue via gambling (lottery, horse races, Indian casinos, etc.), liquor and soon dope at the 7-11. Cuomo and others just want that additional dollar to spend on union pension funds; the next administration can worry about funding the broken families needing assistance as the assets are gambled away. Disgusting and it will not stop.
Jack Belicic, Santa Mira
In case you have not noticed, those pawn shops (We Buy Gold) have been popping up all over the middle and lower class neighborhoods of the city. There are desperate people all over the city, not just near the casino.
John, Queens

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILD ABUSE (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); SEX OFFENSES (89%); CHILDREN (89%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (89%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (88%); VERDICTS (78%); JURY TRIALS (78%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (78%); FOSTER CARE (77%); FAMILY COURTS (77%); FAMILY (77%); MARRIAGE (75%); PSYCHOLOGY (75%); BONE FRACTURES (75%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (72%); HEAD INJURIES (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2013



740 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINIONATOR; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1327 words

HEADLINE: Young and Isolated

BYLINE: By JENNIFER M. SILVA

 BODY:
In a working-class neighborhood in Lowell, Mass., in early 2009, I sat across the table from Diana, then 24, in the kitchen of her mother's house. Diana had planned to graduate from college, marry, buy a home in the suburbs and have kids, a dog and a cat by the time she was 30. But she had recently dropped out of a nearby private university after two years of study and with nearly $80,000 in student loans. Now she worked at Dunkin' Donuts.
''With college,'' she explained, ''I would have had to wait five years to get a degree, and once I get that, who knows if I will be working and if I would find something I wanted to do. I don't want to be a cop or anything. I don't know what to do with it. My manager says some people are born to make coffee, and I guess I was born to make coffee.'' 
Young working-class men and women like Diana are trying to figure out what it means to be an adult in a world of disappearing jobs, soaring education costs and shrinking social support networks. Today, only 20 percent of men and women between 18 and 29 are married. They live at home longer, spend more years in college, change jobs more frequently and start families later.
For more affluent young adults, this may look a lot like freedom. But for the hundred-some working-class 20- and 30-somethings I interviewed between 2008 and 2010 in Lowell and Richmond, Va., at gas stations, fast-food chains, community colleges and temp agencies, the view is very different.
Lowell and Richmond embody many of the structural forces, like deindustrialization and declining blue-collar jobs, that frame working-class young people's attempts to come of age in America today. The economic hardships of these men and women, both white and black, have been well documented. But often overlooked are what the sociologists Richard Sennett and Jonathan Cobb in 1972 called their ''hidden injuries'' -- the difficult-to-measure social costs borne by working-class youths as they struggle to forge stable and meaningful adult lives.
These are people bouncing from one temporary job to the next; dropping out of college because they can't figure out financial aid forms or fulfill their major requirements; relying on credit cards for medical emergencies; and avoiding romantic commitments because they can take care of only themselves. Increasingly disconnected from institutions of work, family and community, they grow up by learning that counting on others will only hurt them in the end. Adulthood is not simply being delayed but dramatically reimagined along lines of trust, dignity and connection and obligation to others.
Take Jay, for example. He was expelled from college for failing several classes after his mother suffered a severe mental breakdown. He worked for a year, then went before the college administration and petitioned to be reinstated. He described it as a humiliating experience: ''It's their jobs to hear all these sob stories, you know, I understand that, but they just had this attitude, like you know what I mean, 'Oh, your mom had a breakdown and you couldn't turn to anyone?' ''
Jay got back in and graduated (after a total of seven years of college). But when I talked to him, he was still working food-service and coffee-shop jobs at 28, baffled about how to turn his communications major into a professional job. He felt as if he was sold fake goods: ''The world is at my fingertips, you can rule the world, be whatever you want, all this stuff. When I was 15, 16, I would not have envisioned the life I am living now. Whatever I imagined, I figured I would wear a suit every day, that I would own things. I don't own anything.''
I heard many people express feeling betrayed by the major institutions in their lives, whether colleges, the health care system, employers or the government.
Christopher, who was 25, stated simply, ''Well, I have this problem of being tricked.'' He explained: ''Like, I will get a phone call that says, you won a free supply of magazines. And they will start coming to my house. Then all of a sudden I am getting calls from bill collectors for the subscriptions to Maxim and ESPN. It's a runaround: I can't figure out who to call. Now I don't even pick up the phone, like I almost didn't pick up when you called me.'' He described isolation as the only safe path; by depending on no one, Christopher protected himself from trickery and betrayal.
These fears seep into the romantic sphere, where commitment becomes yet another risky venture. Kelly, a 28-year-old line cook, spent 10 years battling depression and living off and on in her car. She finally had a job and an apartment of her own. But now she was worried about risking that hard-earned sense of security by letting someone else into her life. ''I like the idea of being with someone,'' she said, ''but I have a hard time imagining trusting anybody with all of my personal stuff.'' She said she would ''rather be alone and fierce than be in a relationship and be milquetoast.''
Men often face a different challenge: the impossibility of living up to the male provider role. Brandon, who worked the night shift at a clothing store, described what he thought it would be like to be in a relationship with him: ''No woman wants to sit on the couch all the time and watch TV and eat at Burger King. I can only take care of myself.''
It is not that these men and women don't value family. Douglas, then 25, talked about loss: ''Trust is gone. The way people used to love is gone.'' Rather, the insecurities and uncertainties of their daily lives have rendered commitment a luxury they can't afford.
But these young men and women don't want your pity -- and they don't expect a handout. They are quick to blame themselves for the milestones they have not achieved. Julian, an Army vet from Richmond who was unemployed, divorced and living with his mother at 28, dismissed the notion that his lack of success was anyone's fault but his own: ''At the end of the day looking in the mirror, I know where all my shortcomings come from. From the things that I either did not do or I did and I just happened to fail at them.'' Kelly echoed that: ''No one else is going to fix me but me.''
This self-sufficiency, while highly prized in our culture, has a dark side: it leaves little empathy to spare for those who cannot survive on their own.
Wanda, a young woman with big dreams of going to college, expressed virulent anger toward her parents, a tow-truck driver and a secretary, for not being able to pay her tuition: ''I feel like it's their fault that they don't have nothing.'' Rather than build connections with those who struggled alongside her, Wanda severed relationships and willed herself not to be ''weak-minded'' like her parents: ''if my mentality were different, then most definitely I would just be stuck like them.''
Working-class youths come to believe that if they have to make it on their own, then everyone else should, too. Powerless to achieve external markers of adulthood like marriage or a steady job, they instead measure their progress by cutting ties, turning inward and numbing themselves emotionally.
We don't want to go back to the 1950s, when economic stability and social solidarity came at the cost of exclusion for many Americans. But nor can we afford the social costs of going forward on our present path of isolation. The social and economic decline of the American working class will only be exacerbated as its youngest members make a virtue out of self-blame, distrust and disconnection. In order to tell a different kind of coming-of-age story, we need to provide these young men and women with the skills and support to navigate the road to adulthood. Our future depends on it.
Jennifer M. Silva is a postdoctoral research fellow at the Harvard Kennedy School and the author of the forthcoming book ''Coming Up Short: Working-Class Adulthood in an Age of Uncertainty.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC
 DRAWING (DRAWING BY JAVIER JAÉN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY (89%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (77%); STUDENT LOANS (77%); STUDENT EXPENSES (77%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (77%); SOCIOLOGY (76%); SUBURBS (73%); MEN (72%); SCHOOL SUSPENSION & EXPULSION (70%); FAST FOOD (70%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (66%); GAS STATIONS (63%)

COMPANY: DUNKIN' BRANDS GROUP INC (71%)

TICKER: DNKN (NASDAQ) (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (71%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (68%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2013



741 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 872 words

HEADLINE: The Great Disconnect

BYLINE: By ROSS DOUTHAT

 BODY:
THIS January, as President Obama began his second term, the Pew Research Center asked Americans to list their policy priorities for 2013. Huge majorities cited jobs and the economy; sizable majorities cited health care costs and entitlement reform; more modest majorities cited fighting poverty and reforming the tax code. Down at the bottom of the list, with less than 40 percent support in each case, were gun control, immigration and climate change.
Yet six months later, the public's non-priorities look like the entirety of the White House's second-term agenda. The president's failed push for background checks has given way to an ongoing push for immigration reform, and the administration is reportedly planning a sweeping regulatory push on carbon emissions this summer. Meanwhile, nobody expects much action on the issues that Americans actually wanted Washington to focus on: tax and entitlement reform have been back-burnered, and the plight of the unemployed seems to have dropped off the D.C. radar screen entirely. 
In part, this disconnect between country and capital reflects the limits gridlock puts on governance. The ideological divides in Washington -- between right and left, and between different factions within the House Republican caucus -- make action on first-rank issues unusually difficult, so it's natural that politicians would look for compromises on lower-priority debates instead.
That's the generous way of looking at it, at least. The more cynical take is that D.C. gridlock has given the political class an excuse to ignore the country's most pressing problem -- a lack of decent jobs at decent wages, with a deeper social crisis at work underneath -- and pursue its own pet causes instead.
After all, gun control, immigration reform and climate change aren't just random targets of opportunity. They're pillars of Acela Corridor ideology, core elements of Bloombergism, places where Obama-era liberalism overlaps with the views of Davos-goers and the Wall Street 1 percent. If you move in those circles, the political circumstances don't necessarily matter: these ideas always look like uncontroversial common sense.
Step outside those circles, though, and the timing of their elevation looks at best peculiar, at worst perverse. The president decided to make gun control legislation a major second-term priority ... with firearm homicides at a 30-year low. Congress is pursuing a sharp increase in low-skilled immigration ... when the foreign-born share of the American population is already headed for historical highs. The administration is drawing up major new carbon regulations ... when actual existing global warming has been well below projections for 15 years and counting.
What's more, on the issues that Americans actually prioritize -- jobs, wages, the economy -- it's likely that both immigration reform and whatever the White House decides to do on greenhouse gases will make the short-term picture somewhat worse. The Congressional Budget Office's recent analysis of the immigration bill errs on the side of optimism, but it still projects that the legislation would leave unemployment ''slightly elevated'' through 2020, and average wages modestly reduced. Given that similar estimates greeted the Waxman-Markey cap-and-trade bill in 2009, it's reasonable to assume that carbon regulations would slightly raise the unemployment rate as well.
These costs might be more acceptable in a world where Washington was also readying, say, payroll tax relief for working-class families, or measures to help the long-term uninsured. But since those ideas currently lack constituencies in the capital, we're left with the peculiar spectacle of a political class responding to a period of destructive long-term unemployment with an agenda that threatens to help extend that crisis toward 2020 and beyond.
This disconnect is the most serious threat to the current liberal ascendance. President Obama has a good chance to be remembered as ''the liberal Reagan,'' but the Reagan recovery was far better for most Americans than this one has been, and right now the president's mediocre job approval numbers contrast sharply with the highs of Reagan's second term.
In this sense, for all the (justifiable) talk about conservatism's dysfunction, Republicans have more freedom of movement today than Democrats did after their 1984 defeat. As Yuval Levin wrote in The Weekly Standard in April, there has been no ''morning in America''-style vindication for this administration; instead, ''both parties give the impression of having outlived their eras,'' and ''the moment feels more like the late 1970s than the late 1980s.'' The country clearly prefers Obama to the available alternatives, but it might prefer another alternative still.
But so far, Republicans have mostly used liberalism's relative weakness as an excuse for not moving much at all, and sticking with an agenda that's even more disconnected from the anxieties of the average voter than the White House's second-term priorities.
Their assumption seems to be that eventually the public will simply have to turn to them. But their obligation should be to address both parties' most conspicuous failure, and actually meet the voters where they are.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); GUN CONTROL (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); POLITICS (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); LIBERALISM (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); TAX LAW (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); GLOBAL WARMING (76%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (76%); TAX REFORM (74%); EMISSIONS (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); GREENHOUSE GASES (71%); CAUCUSES (70%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2013



742 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; ON HORSE RACING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 742 words

HEADLINE: In Britain, A Reverence For Horse Racing

BYLINE: By JOE DRAPE

 BODY:
ASCOT, England -- The queen won the Royal Ascot Gold Cup here Thursday, stopping for a moment the continuous parade to the winners' circle by Irish horsemen. No, the fix was not in. It was the first time a reigning monarch's horse had won the meeting's signature race in its 207-year history.
But the victory was perhaps overdue -- Queen Elizabeth II has come to Royal Ascot every year since 1945, and that perfect attendance record, along with 22 victories, is evidence enough that she takes thoroughbred racing seriously. So do the French, Australian, South African and yes, American horsemen who converge here each June for what is truly an international festival. 
Animal Kingdom failed to finish his career with a victory in the Queen Anne Stakes, but two other Yankees made an impact over the five days of racing here. Joseph Allen, a longtime breeder and owner, won two races, including the Queen Anne with Declaration of War, and the trainer Wesley Ward's colt No Nay Never set a track record for five furlongs in the Norfolk Stakes.
The world, indeed, has become smaller, and as the thoroughbred industry continues to contract, some American horsemen are globe-trotting for better opportunities. They come to Royal Ascot for the prestige more than the money -- there are richer purses most weekends at home. They come here to go back in time to when a day at the races meant Champagne, elegant clothes and a certain romance.
The Bronx-born, Florida-based Allen was visibly moved after War Command ran off with the Coventry Stakes to make him a winner for a second time.
''This is surreal,'' Allen said. ''I've been involved with horses for 35 years, and this is the highlight. To win two major races on the first day of Royal Ascot is a dream.''
While horse racing in the United States has increasingly become a niche sport that commands the nation's attention only during the Triple Crown races, it has visibility and clout here, contributing more than $5.4 billion to the English economy, according to a recent study by the British Horseracing Authority and the auditor Deloitte. It is the second most popular sport here behind soccer, with 5.6 million people attending the races in 2012. Not including the London Olympic and Paralympic Games, 4 of the top 10 most attended sporting events last year were at racetracks, according to the study.
Having the royal family in its corner does not hurt. Windsor Castle is nearby, and this is their meet. Two pastimes are guessing what color outfit the queen chooses for each of the five days, as well as whom she will invite as her guest to ride in her carriage during the royal procession. (She was sporting purple when her filly Estimate won the Royal Ascot Gold Cup.)
You have to go all the way back to the early 1800s, when President Andrew Jackson ran a stable from the White House, to find such a powerful advocate for American horse racing.
The reverence and enthusiasm the public here has for horse racing is something to behold. It is a constant on television, with England's Channel 4 broadcasting 88 afternoons of racing along with 64 mornings of an hourlong magazine show. Its coverage each day of Royal Ascot was a mix of human interest stories, fashion features and expert analysis.
It means horses like last year's undefeated Frankel become superstars alongside footballers and rugby players. It meant Animal Kingdom was welcomed like a hero. It also helps build a following among young people, who made up a significant part of the more than 40,000 fans who showed up each day of the festival.
Jake Acaster, 21, and Hayden Kirby, 18, put on suits and drove five hours from Cheltenham for the Royal Ascot meeting. They were conversant on Animal Kingdom and South Africa's Shea Shea as well as the English and Irish horses that are regulars on the English circuit.
''We follow on television and chat with racing experts around the world on Twitter,'' said Kirby, a student. ''Going to these festivals are very much an event, something you want to do.''
The bookies who sprawl out on the apron of the track with their boxes, computers and odds boards add to the Old World feel here. Surprisingly, however, they were not overrun by bettors. In fact, there were rarely lines at all.
''Horse racing is in our blood,'' said Nick Luck, Channel 4's racing presenter. ''It's not just about backing horses with the bookies, either. It's about watching them run and knowing that they are athletes.''
Yes, they are.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Queen Elizabeth II, seated above, became the first reigning monarch to win the Royal Ascot Gold Cup when Ryan Moore, third from right, rode Estimate to victory Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DARREN STAPLES/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HORSE RACING (91%); BRITISH MONARCHS (90%); HORSES (90%); OLYMPICS (85%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); BRITISH ROYALTY (78%); SPORTS (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION (76%); SPECIAL OLYMPICS & PARALYMPICS (76%); FESTIVALS (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (75%); SOCCER (73%); PARADES & MARCHES (69%); ANIMALS (69%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (60%); 2012 LONDON SUMMER OLYMPICS (60%)

COMPANY: DELOITTE LLP (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (52%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (52%)

PERSON: ELIZABETH II, QUEEN OF THE UNITED KINGDOM (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (92%); ENGLAND (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2013



743 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; HINDSIGHT; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1071 words

HEADLINE: The Fed's Framers Would Be Shocked

BYLINE: By ROGER LOWENSTEIN. 
Roger Lowenstein is writing a history of the Federal Reserve.

 BODY:
ONE hundred years ago today, President Woodrow Wilson went before Congress and demanded that it ''act now'' to create the Federal Reserve System. His proposal set off a fierce debate. One of the plan's most strident critics, Representative Charles A. Lindbergh Sr., the father of the aviator, predicted that the Federal Reserve Act would establish ''the most gigantic trust on earth,'' and that the Fed would become an economic dictator or, as he put it, an ''invisible government by the money power.''
Had the congressman witnessed Ben S. Bernanke's news conference last week, he surely would have felt vindicated. Investors, traders and ordinary citizens listened with rapt attention as Mr. Bernanke, the Fed chairman, spoke of his timetable for scaling down stimulative bond purchases. ''If things are worse, we will do more,'' he said of the nation's economy. ''If things are better, we will do less.'' 
In 1913, few of the framers of the Fed anticipated that the institution would do anything of the sort. The preamble to the act specified three purposes: to furnish ''an elastic currency,'' to provide a market for commercial paper so that banks would have more liquidity, and to improve supervision of banks. Regulating the economy was not among them.
The framers saw that the banking system needed reform, but they were sorely divided about how to go about it. Wall Street wanted a strong central bank -- preferably under private control. Populists like William Jennings Bryan, Wilson's secretary of state, insisted that banks answer to the public. But many people from the farm belt, like Lindbergh, were opposed to any powerful financial agency.
The backdrop to the legislation was that the United States, in the late 19th century, suffered frequent financial panics. In 1907, banks ran out of cash and the panic snowballed into a depression. The nation had no central reserve -- no agency that, in a crisis, could allocate credit where needed. All it had was J.P. Morgan Sr., who arranged for a private loan syndicate. That was not enough, and, anyway, in the spring of 1913 Morgan died. Leading financiers, like Paul Warburg, a German immigrant who wanted to replicate the Reichsbank in his adopted home, thought the United States needed some coordinating agency. They thought that the system was too decentralized.
Many ordinary Americans disagreed. They thought banking was too centralized already, and that credit shortages were the fault of uncompetitive practices on Wall Street. Over the winter of 1912-13, Congress staged sensational hearings to unmask the ''money trust'' -- a supposed conspiracy among the biggest banks. The hearings did not uncover evidence tying credit shortages to collusive behavior. They did establish that Wall Street tycoons were overly clubby with one another -- especially in the distribution of securities -- and not exactly beacons of free competition.
The Democrats, who won control of Congress in 1912, promised in their platform to free the country ''from control or domination by what is known as the money trust.'' What's more, they specifically opposed the creation of a ''central bank,'' which the delegates saw as a stalking horse for the money trust.
THUS, supporters of the Federal Reserve legislation faced a delicate problem: how to fashion a centralizing agency and not run afoul of the strong popular sentiment against centralization.
Representative Carter Glass of Virginia, the chief sponsor of the Federal Reserve Act, embodied this dichotomy. Before 1913, his claim to fame was helping to draft a state constitution that had disenfranchised African-Americans. He was an ardent champion of states' rights. Like most Southern Democrats, he wanted to restrain federal authority -- in banking as well as in race relations. Laissez-faire Democrats since Jefferson and Jackson had opposed central banks, and Glass embraced that tradition. But he recognized a need for banking reform, and wanted a more elastic currency to avert money panics and moderate depressions.
His solution was to propose privately owned regional reserve banks that would be new centers of banking strength, away from Wall Street. Wilson horrified him by insisting that a Reserve Board sit atop the individual banks. To Glass, this federalist design looked too much like a central bank.
Then Wilson horrified Wall Street by insisting that Reserve Board members be named by the president, rather than by banks. ''History and experience unmistakably show that governments are not good bankers,'' hissed The New York Times, which typically toed the Wall Street line. The Washington Post accused Wilson of engineering ''a colossal political machine.''
Facing Congress on June 23, Wilson touched a popular chord when he said banks should be ''the instruments, not the masters, of business.'' But he also said that ''our banking laws must mobilize reserves.'' This had been Warburg's main goal -- to pool banking reserves so they could be tapped as needed.
Historians still debate what the Fed's framers intended because many details were left vague, and the Fed evolved over time. When the act was signed, in December 1913, few anticipated that the Federal Reserve Board would become so central to the economy, though it did have authority over interest rates. And Glass pledged that the new agency would be restrained by the requirements of the gold standard -- which the nation eventually abandoned.
The current Fed would dismay the framers. Glass would be shocked at the power of Mr. Bernanke. Warburg might applaud the Fed's efforts to temper a recession, while frowning on its printing of ''fiat money.''
For some of the same reasons, ''end the Fed'' is a rallying cry among Tea Partyers, and among critics with a fondness for the gold standard. Representative Kevin Brady, a Texas Republican who is chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, has marked the Fed's centennial by calling for a commission ''to examine the United States monetary policy'' and ''evaluate alternative monetary regimes.''
The trenchant question is whether nostalgia for ''originalism'' is a useful guide to policy. Wilson knew well that the Second Bank of the United States -- a 19th-century precursor to the Fed -- had been left to die, at the insistence of President Andrew Jackson. But Wilson was trying to govern for the present, not to placate his party's ghosts. Congress today should receive reform proposals in the same spirit.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Leading voices in the establishment of the Federal Reserve System a century ago included, from top to bottom left, the financier Paul Warburg, President Woodrow Wilson and Representative Carter Glass of Virginia. All might well be surprised at the wide powers now wielded by the Fed, as led by Ben S. Bernanke, right. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KAIDEN-KEYSTONE STUDIOS
A.P.O.
 MANUEL BALCE CENETA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (74%); BONDS (74%); SYNDICATED LOANS (65%); COMMERCIAL PAPER (51%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (91%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2013



744 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3102 words

HEADLINE: Clinic Races to Adapt to Health Care Overhaul

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH

 BODY:
LOUISVILLE, Ky. -- One morning last month, a health clinic next to a scruffy strip mall here had an unlikely visitor: a man in a suit and tie, seeking to bring a dose of M.B.A. order to the operation.
A dozen clinic employees, who spend intense, chaotic days treating an unending stream of Louisville's poor and uninsured, stared stonily at handouts he had brought as he made his pitch.
The visitor was Danny DuBosque, a ''coach'' hired to help the nonprofit clinic adapt to the demands of the federal health care overhaul. He had come to discuss a new appointment system, one that will let patients see a doctor or nurse within a few days of calling, instead of weeks or months.
''It's a huge satisfier,'' he declared -- management-speak that fell flat with Dr. Michelle Elisburg, a pediatrician who was scheduled to see 26 patients that day. 
''It puts me on edge,'' said Dr. Elisburg, who has spent her career treating the poor. ''Under this model, it's first come first served, whoever calls fastest. But that's not necessarily the patient who really needs to be seen.''
Mr. DuBosque, 35, raised his arms, a plea for patience. ''We're going to take the next few years going through and untangling all these issues,'' he said before hurrying to another meeting.
''It's frightening,'' Dr. Elisburg, 42, murmured as Mr. DuBosque left.
The debate that morning was just one expression of the tensions rippling through medical offices around the country in the countdown to January, when the Affordable Care Act will require most Americans to have health insurance or pay a tax penalty. For doctors and their staffs, this is a period of fevered preparation for the far-reaching changes that are soon to come as the law moves out of the realm of political jousting and into the real world.
To follow how the historic law is playing out, The New York Times will look periodically at its impact in Louisville, a city of 600,000 that embodies both the triumphs and the shortcomings of the medical system in the United States.
The nation's first hand transplant was performed here, as was the world's first implant of a self-contained artificial heart. One of the nation's largest insurers, Humana, is based here, and the city's downtown area alone has four hospitals and a medical school. Health care increasingly fuels the local economy, accounting for many of the largest employers and a growing number of start-ups.
Yet for all the resources and expertise, the health outcomes in Kentucky remain ''horrendous,'' as Gov. Steven L. Beshear, a Democrat, put it recently. The state has some of the nation's highest rates of smoking, obesity and deaths due to cancer and diabetes. At this point, the only sure thing about putting the law's many pieces in place here is that it will not be easy.
The potential benefits are huge. Some 90,000 people could get medical coverage in this city alone. It could create thousands of jobs in Kentucky and, if its aspirations are realized, provide better care at lower cost. Yet the law still provokes suspicion and confusion, among both health care providers and the uninsured population it is meant to help.
Community clinics like the one Mr. DuBosque was visiting, one of seven in a network here called Family Health Centers, are at the front lines of the change. They expect that their patient load could double, even as they struggle to recruit doctors and other staff members. They serve people who, because of poverty or entrenched habits, often have a hard time staying healthy and tend to put off preventive care. Now these clinics are anticipating competition from private providers who may see newly insured patients -- no matter how poor -- as opportunities for profit. So they are working on improving the patient experience and their own efficiency.
The legislation allots $11 billion over five years to improve and expand community clinics across the nation. Family Health Centers is getting $5.4 million to renovate a clinic for the homeless and move a downtown clinic to a much bigger building, adding dental and X-ray departments and a pharmacy. The organization hopes to eventually serve 10,000 additional patients at that site alone, if it can hire enough doctors and nurses to treat them. Meanwhile, it is using federal stimulus money to convert 60,000 paper charts to electronic medical records, and trying to improve patient access with the new scheduling system and other changes.
''We have to change from being the provider of last resort to the first choice for the community we serve,'' said Bill Wagner, the longtime executive director of Family Health Centers. ''Everything we do needs to say, 'You're valuable to us.' ''
Soft of voice and low-key, Mr. Wagner, 60, nonetheless acknowledges that the stakes for Family Health Centers are unnervingly high. He gets to work at 6:30 a.m. these days, relies on a steady stream of caffeine and clears his head with weekend motorcycle rides.
''We couldn't have more balls in the air right now,'' he said.
Patients and Problems
The West End of Louisville is a patchwork of poor neighborhoods, where asthma, high blood pressure and other chronic conditions are stubbornly common. In Portland, a neighborhood of one-way streets and faded shotgun homes, the biggest Family Health Centers clinic provides basic care to some 16,000 patients per year, regardless of ability to pay.
Here, Alaina Brohm, a brisk nurse practitioner, treats a diverse and challenging population: the unemployed, the chronically depressed, the obese, patients with advanced diabetes and feeble hearts. Ms. Brohm, 30, could be making more money at the retail clinics popping up in drugstores and supermarkets, diagnosing strep throats and bladder infections. Maybe someday she will. But for now, she wants a bigger challenge.
''I knew I would see it all here -- a lot of chronic conditions, the worst of the worst,'' she said. ''I know a little bit about everything.''
Few in Louisville may feel the effects of the new health care law as tangibly as the uninsured patients who churn through Ms. Brohm's cramped exam rooms -- and how they will respond to the law is one of the crucial questions that will determine whether it succeeds. For now, many seem either wary of it or uninformed.
Marchelle Edwards, 55, had been absent from the clinic for more than a year when she arrived there one Monday in May. She had a painful infection in her foot, linked to uncontrolled diabetes. She had stopped taking medicine to control her blood sugar after her prescription ran out months earlier. She also had a bladder infection and a thyroid condition that was making her hoarse. Her daughter Tammy, who had driven her to the clinic, reported that she was subsisting on Pepsi and junk food and feeling tired all the time.
Ms. Edwards seemed to be a walking example of the potential benefits of the same-day appointment system that Mr. DuBosque had been pitching. ''I just couldn't get an appointment in here,'' she said, alluding to the long wait time and why she had not bothered trying.
''Even if you made an appointment and it was two months out,'' Ms. Brohm softly chided, ''it would be a lot sooner than waiting a year.''
The last time Ms. Brohm had seen Ms. Edwards, in April 2012, she had referred her to a podiatrist affiliated with University Hospital, which provides most of the city's specialized indigent care. But Ms. Edwards, a former food service worker, said she had stopped seeing the podiatrist because he charged $35 per visit.
''I stay at home and I hurt,'' she said.
Ms. Brohm started her back on two medicines: one to regulate her blood sugar, and another to help with pain in her feet, a result of nerve damage from the diabetes. One would be free through a pharmacy discount program for the poor; the other would be $6 a month, an expense Ms. Edwards said was prohibitive.
''There's only so much I can do with your toes, O.K., without surgery,'' Ms. Brohm told her. ''You're going to need another referral to a podiatrist, another appointment with a financial counselor. Let me grab you a list.''
She left the room to get one, but Ms. Edwards stalked out, scowling, before she could return. Her daughter shook her head.
''Not having insurance,'' Tammy Edwards said, ''not being able to get the treatments and stuff that she really needs, it's depressing for her.''
Ms. Edwards will almost certainly qualify for Medicaid under an expansion next year, which means she would pay nothing or a few dollars for most drugs and medical care, with a maximum of $450 a year.
Yet Ms. Brohm wonders whether Ms. Edwards will pursue the care she needs even if she gets Medicaid. ''She's scared of health care,'' Ms. Brohm said after the appointment. ''She's one of the ones that's more in denial. I guess it's her defense mechanism: 'If I don't find out, then I won't know.' ''
Ms. Edwards's case raises a crucial question about the health care law: Will insurance necessarily make unhealthy people healthier?
David Elson, 59, who has congestive heart failure and chronic kidney disease, skipped an appointment at the clinic in April because he could not afford the fee. He earns enough to pay the highest fee on the clinic's sliding scale: $65 per visit, he said, and more if he needs blood work. He came one recent evening for an urgent visit, laboring to breathe.
Mr. Elson, who has his own business installing alarm systems, used to pay $125 a month for health insurance, he said. But then he developed diabetes, and his premium soared to more than $500 a month. He dropped the policy years ago.
His nurse practitioner, Susan Elrod, quickly determined that he had fluid in his lungs. Ashen and slumped, he had gained 50 pounds in two months -- all water weight, she said -- because his weakened heart had not been pumping efficiently enough. He now weighed 309 pounds, and his legs had swelled so much that large lesions had opened on them, fluid seeping out.
''We're going to have to send you to the emergency room,'' Ms. Elrod told him. ''Do you feel strong enough to drive, or would you like me to call an ambulance?''
Mr. Elson grimaced, realizing he now faced a far greater expense than what he had saved by skipping his last appointment. He was already struggling to pay for his insulin -- $240 a month, he said -- and other drugs, which filled a plastic bag he had brought with him.
''I can't afford to go,'' he said, looking blank, after Ms. Elrod had left the room.
He went nonetheless, but not until the next morning, when a neighbor could drive him.
Mr. Elson said he earned about $24,000 a year, too much to qualify for Medicaid even under the expansion. It will cover people with incomes up to $15,856 for a household of one.
But Mr. Elson could still get federal subsidies starting next year to help him buy private coverage through the insurance marketplace, or exchange, that Kentucky is creating under the law. People with incomes up to 400 percent of the poverty level -- about $46,000 for an individual -- will be eligible for such subsidies if they buy coverage through an exchange. But Mr. Elson said he was certain the cost would still be too high.
''I don't see it helping anybody,'' he said, ''just making everybody get insurance.''
In fact, Mr. Elson might pay about $130 a month for coverage if he signed up for a medium-cost plan, according to an estimate by the Kaiser Family Foundation, a nonpartisan research group. He would qualify for a subsidy that would cover 80 percent of his premium costs. The law will also prohibit insurance companies from turning him away or charging him more because he is sick.
Even Ms. Brohm, the nurse practitioner, is suspicious of the law and confused about the changes it will bring. For one thing, she worries that poor people who become eligible for Medicaid under the expansion will be required to pay a part of their medical costs.
''If it does help out with the expensive stuff, that will be very exciting,'' she said. ''But my concern is if they have to pay anything, will things still be done? Sometimes even a small percentage is too much for people.''
The law's divisiveness, meanwhile, makes her uncomfortable. She knows of a restaurant chain that may be sold, she said, because the owner cannot afford to provide insurance for his employees, as the law will soon require.
''If it becomes something a lot of people argue about,'' she said, ''that frightens me.''
Changes on the Way
At a meeting of the Family Health Centers medical staff in May, Ms. Brohm and her colleagues listened as Dr. Peter Thurman, the medical director, delivered a pep talk of sorts. He was pressing them to complete a day's worth of online courses about the electronic records system that the clinics were poised to adopt. More training would come later in the year.
''It's self-preservation, in my opinion,'' Dr. Thurman said.
The topic shifted to the new appointment system, which only one of the clinics, known as Fairdale, had adopted so far. The early news was good: the average no-show rate had dropped from 21 percent in March to 10.5 percent in May.
''This thing is working,'' Dr. Thurman proclaimed, and went on to credit Mr. DuBosque. ''Danny's been a godsend for us, I'll just be honest with you.''
Later that day, Mr. DuBosque drove to the Fairdale clinic on the south side of Louisville, to get some firsthand feedback. The staff had more good news: fewer patients were turning to private urgent-care centers, a growing source of competition for Family Health Centers.
''They're acting shocked: 'What, we can get in today?' '' said Saundra Kay Webb, a receptionist.
Technically, Mr. DuBosque's job is to help Family Health Centers get certified as a ''patient-centered medical home.'' Under that model, teams of providers take a highly organized approach to patient care, with a focus on customer service. Better access is a central goal, which is why Family Health Centers is cutting its wait time for appointments.
Electronic medical records are also essential to the medical home model, partly to reduce what Mr. DuBosque called ''the sheer work of keeping tabs on things with paper charts.''
Among other things, he is learning that change sometimes comes more slowly in community clinics than in the fiercely competitive hospital sector, where he used to work. For example, Mr. DuBosque thinks it would be smart to start and end the workday later at Family Health Centers, because patients are reluctant to show up for early-morning appointments. But the idea is not catching fire.
''There's a whole host of things we're going to have to fight through with that,'' he said. ''We have a lot of staff with some established routines and schedules. But I think it's a no-brainer.''
Doctors working full time at Family Health Centers earn about $127,000 a year, far less than many of their counterparts in private practice. In the last year alone, the clinics lost five doctors, including one who moved, one who retired and one who took a higher-paying job at a hospital. Nurse practitioners are filling the void. They now make up 60 percent of the medical staff at the seven clinics, and their role will continue to grow.
But they, too, are in high demand, and their salary at Family Health Centers, about $67,000 a year for a full-time position, comes up short compared with the private sector.
If Family Health Centers sees enough new revenue, raising salaries will be a top priority. But as with so much of the Affordable Care Act, there are still far more questions than answers.
''Will it allow a community health center to be competitive on M.D.'s against the hospitals?'' Dr. Thurman asked. ''I just don't know.''
Financial Considerations
One afternoon last month, Mr. Wagner, the director of Family Health Centers, canceled his appointments and hurried to the Kentucky State Capitol in Frankfort, about an hour away. Governor Beshear was announcing that he would expand Medicaid in the state, a measure called for under the health care law but one that many states are opting out of. By the governor's estimate, it would allow up to 308,000 additional Kentuckians into the program, almost half of the state's uninsured population.
Mr. Wagner was eager to bear witness to an announcement that he deemed historic, the culmination of a goal he has spent his career trying to achieve. The Medicaid expansion could also solve Mr. Wagner's budget problem. Family Health Centers is facing a deficit of about $3 million in its overall annual budget of $30 million, largely because so many of its 42,000 patients, 54 percent, are uninsured.
''Right now we're living off our reserve fund, and that can only last so long,'' Mr. Wagner said.
Then it was back to his office in Louisville to keep planning. That day he learned that community clinics around the country would receive $150 million to help sign up people for insurance. Family Health Centers anticipates getting about $300,000, which it will use to get the word out starting this summer. Under the law, people can start signing up in October for coverage that starts in January.
''We will undoubtedly be hiring staff who will sit in the lobbies with patients -- with laptops, with tablets -- to provide assistance in enrolling online,'' Mr. Wagner said.
October will be a critical month at Family Health Centers. The insurance sign-up period will begin just as construction on the new downtown clinic gets under way. At the same time, the huge Portland clinic will go live with the electronic medical records, and it will have just adopted the new appointment system.
Ms. Brohm, the nurse practitioner, will be married by then, returning from her honeymoon to what may feel like a strange new world. Ms. Elrod, her colleague, will have cut her hours at Family Health Centers and started working in the relative calm of a private doctor's office. Short of a miracle, neither Ms. Edwards nor Mr. Elson, their chronically ill patients, will have health insurance yet. But if the outreach campaign succeeds, they will have learned of their options and may be poised to sign up.
The day after Mr. Elson was admitted to the hospital, Ms. Elrod called to check on him. His breathing had improved, and the hospital had prescribed a different diuretic to help him excrete water. He had lost 10 pounds so far and would lose 20 more by the end of his five-day stay. She told him to follow up at the clinic after his release.
''Get on my schedule for Tuesday night, O.K.?'' she said, then paused for his response. ''O.K., if you have the money. I understand, Mr. Elson. O.K. Bye.''
Remaking Medicine: Articles in this series will examine how the Obama health care law is affecting lives in one American city.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Amanda Peach, left, and Susan Elrod with a patient at a Family Health Centers clinic in a low-income area of Louisville, Ky. (A1)
ALAINA BROHM, a nurse practitioner with Family Health Centers in Louisville, Ky., on the new federal health care law.
CLINIC PATIENTS: Clockwise from top left: Janet McCauley, Marchelle Edwards, Joe French and Jeffrey Hines. (A20)
CHANGES AFOOT: Bill Wagner, top, the executive director of Family Health Centers, visiting the future site of a clinic. Above left, Danny DuBosque with Dr. Peter Thurman at one of the group's clinics. Right, Erin McGill working to convert paper records to electronic files, one of the group's priorities. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TYLER BISSMEYER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A21) CHARTS: Comparing Patient Profiles: Family Health Centers, a group of seven nonprofit health centers in the Louisville metro area, has a much larger share of poor and uninsured patients than community health clinics over all, the state of Kentucky and the United States. (Sources: Kaiser Family Foundation
Family Health Centers
 Health Resources and Services Administration) (A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (78%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); TRANSPLANT SURGERY (72%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (72%); INSURANCE (71%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%)

ORGANIZATION: HEALTH RESOURCES & SERVICES ADMINISTRATION (59%)

PERSON: STEVE BESHEAR (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (96%) KENTUCKY, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2013



745 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 340 words

HEADLINE: Profiting From Pain

BYLINE: By BARRY MEIER. 
A reporter who covers business and medicine for The New York Times and the author of the Times e-book ''A World of Hurt: Fixing Pain Medicine's Biggest Mistake.''

 BODY:
THE use of narcotic painkillers, or opioids, has boomed over the past decade as drug makers and doctors have promoted them for a new use: treating long-term pain from back injuries, headaches, arthritis and conditions like fibromyalgia. Insurers have also grown to see pills as a cheaper way to treat chronic pain than other methods. 
Some patients are greatly helped by opioids, a large family of medications. Among the more widely used opioids are oxycodone, which is found in Percocet and OxyContin, and hydrocodone, which is used in Vicodin. Other potent opioids include fentanyl and methadone. Narcotic painkillers are now the most widely prescribed class of medications in the United States, and prescriptions for the strongest opioids, including OxyContin, have increased nearly fourfold over the past decade.
There is increasing evidence, however, that such drugs, along with being widely abused, are often ineffective in treating long-term pain and can have serious consequences, particularly when used in high doses. Along with the risk of addiction, side effects can include psychological dependence, reduced drive, extreme lethargy and sleep apnea.
The economic costs associated with the painkiller boom have also proved enormous, giving rise to a host of unanticipated medical, legal and social costs. Over the past decade, the legal -- and illegal -- use of these drugs has given birth to new businesses and expanded existing ones. These include urine-screening tests to make sure patients are taking the drugs properly, added sales of addiction treatment drugs, growing emergency-room expenses, law-enforcement budgets and skyrocketing costs for insurers.
In the short run, treating a patient with an opioid like OxyContin, which costs about $6,000 a year, is less expensive than putting a patient through a pain-treatment program that emphasizes physical therapy and behavior modification. But over time, such programs, which run from $15,000 to $25,000, might yield far lower costs.
Here is a brief guide to the economics of opioids.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHICS: A Decade of Rising American Use (Source: IMS Health Data)
More Pills, More Business ...: DRUG-SCREENING TESTS: Many of these tests check the urine of patients taking opioids, looking for abuse of those drugs. In 2013, workers' compensation insurers in California will spend about $100 million on tests, up 200-fold since 2002.
More Hospitalizations ...: U.S. HOSPITAL EMERGENCY ROOM COSTS: Cases in which an opioid other than heroin was cited as a reason for an emergency-room treatment:
More Legal Expenses ...: MONITORING ''DOCTOR SHOPPING'': Most states have databases of prescriptions to flag patients trying to get additional opioids.
More Workplace Costs: INSURANCE CLAIMS FOR TIME LOST Workers' compensation costs include treatment expenses and lost wages. The stronger the opioid, the higher the expense. (Sources: IMS Health Data
Frost & Sullivan
California Workers' Compensation Institute
Workers Compensation Research Institute
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
Drug Abuse Warning Network
Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration
Accident Fund Holdings, Lansing, Mich.
PDMP Center for Excellence, Brandeis University
 Florida Department of Health) (GRAPHICS BY BARRY MEIER AND BILL MARSH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANALGESICS (92%); ANESTHETICS (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%); MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); ARTHRITIS (90%); PSYCHOLOGY (78%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT (78%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (78%); BACK DISORDERS & INJURIES (78%); FIBROMYALGIA (77%); PHYSICAL THERAPY (77%); CHRONIC DISEASES (77%); SLEEP DISORDERS (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (65%)

ORGANIZATION: SUBSTANCE ABUSE & MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES ADMINISTRATION (59%); CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LANSING, MI, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2013



746 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 618 words

HEADLINE: Extreme Budget Cuts of 2014

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

 BODY:
The most shameful achievement of the House Republican majority has been the elimination of $1.5 trillion in discretionary spending through 2022, which has already held back the economy from substantial growth and done real damage to people and communities that depend on government dollars. The widespread pain caused by this year's sequester is the best-known aspect of these cuts, but caps that will continue to limit virtually every program for nine more years will also be extremely harmful.
Republicans, though, still aren't satisfied, and are continuing their campaign to radically reshape Washington's relationship to the country. The 2014 spending bills now emerging from the House Appropriations Committee are worse than in any previous year and would make some programs and departments unrecognizable. 
The spending limits imposed by Republicans in the Budget Control Act of 2011 will be different in the upcoming fiscal year. The arbitrary, across-the-board cuts of the sequester will come to an end for most discretionary spending (the kind that has to be renewed each year), but the severe overall limits on each department's budget will get worse as total discretionary spending declines by 2 percent. The difference in 2014 is that lawmakers can reallocate money within departments as they see fit, within the limits, and won't be confined by the sequester rules.
House Republicans, of course, have decided to exceed the caps for their favorite programs. They want to give the Pentagon a 5.4 percent increase -- $26 billion it doesn't need -- along with a 3.3 percent raise to Homeland Security. To pay for that, and still shrink the budget, they are demanding severe cuts from spending bills for which they have little use: nearly 19 percent out of the labor, health and education bill; 15 percent from the financial services oversight bill; 14 percent from the interior and environment bill; and 11 percent from the energy and water bill.
Those percentages, just to be clear, represent cuts below this year's already ruinous sequester levels. The effect is visible in several of the bills that have emerged from the Appropriations Committee:
TRANSPORTATION AND HUD The overall level is cut by 9 percent, or $4.4 billion, below the 2013 sequester. That means Community Development Block Grants are cut by 45 percent to $1.6 billion, well below the $2.7 billion put in place when President Gerald Ford created the program in 1974. Amtrak would be cut by a third, as would the HOME Investment program, which creates affordable housing.
ENERGY AND WATER Spending on renewable energy programs would be cut nearly in half to $1 billion. But somehow an extra $450 million was found for further development of coal, natural gas, oil and other fossil fuels.
AGRICULTURE The bill cuts $120 million needed by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission to enforce the Dodd-Frank financial oversight law.
Even more severe cuts are likely when the environment and education bills are released in the coming weeks.
The Senate, though, has taken a very different approach. Rather than perpetuate the unnecessary austerity of the spending caps, the Senate budget would raise an additional $1 trillion by eliminating various tax breaks for the rich and for corporations, while still cutting an equal amount of spending in areas that are not vital. But Republicans in both chambers have ignored all entreaties from the White House and the Senate to sit down and negotiate.
The White House, urging compromise, has threatened to veto any Republican spending bill outside of a negotiated budget agreement that increases vital investments. The House, apparently, would rather drag the country through yet another budget showdown.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); US BUDGET CONTROL ACT OF 2011 (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (71%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (70%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (67%); US DODD FRANK ACT (67%); FUTURES (67%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (66%); NATURAL GAS (66%); GRANTS & GIFTS (65%); NATIONAL SECURITY (64%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (62%); BANKING & FINANCE (62%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (61%); COAL MARKETS (61%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (61%); SECURITIES TRADING (50%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (50%)

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (51%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (51%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2013



747 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 517 words

HEADLINE: Airline Merger Mania

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

 BODY:
If you are flying this summer, be prepared to pay more for your ticket and extra fees to check your bag and select your seat. The flight is likely to be fuller than it was last year, and you will have fewer choices of airlines on most routes than you did several years ago. 
After years of struggling financially, domestic airlines are making money again thanks to mergers and cost-cutting moves that have reduced capacity. Coupled with an improving economy, consolidation appears to have driven up fares and, perhaps more important, let airlines charge higher fees for services like check-in luggage that once were free.
The airline business will become even more concentrated this year if the proposed merger of American Airlines and US Airways is cleared with few or no conditions by the Justice Department's antitrust division. A Government Accountability Office report released last week showed that combining the two airlines would reduce competition on 1,665 routes affecting 53 million passengers.
Executives at American and US Airways have said their merger would have a minimal impact on competition because they have only 12 overlapping nonstop routes. But many travelers, especially those flying between smaller cities, have to make at least one stop in their journeys. The G.A.O. analysis includes routes with one stop and finds that the American-US Airways merger, which would create the world's largest airline, would reduce competition even more than the industry's last mega-merger, the 2010 United-Continental deal.
Airline fares are based on many factors, like oil prices, labor costs and passenger demand. The average fare for all domestic flights increased by 4.2 percent between 2007 and 2012, to $375, after adjusting for inflation, according to data submitted to the Transportation Department. Fees have increased even faster. For example, airlines collected $3.5 billion in baggage fees in 2012, up from $464 million in 2007.
Still, there is no question that competition plays an important role in pricing decisions. According to a report by the American Antitrust Institute and the Business Travel Coalition published last year, fares on routes that were consolidated after mergers increased much more than other fares. In the last five years, the airline industry has lost two large full-service carriers, Northwest and Continental, and one important discounter, AirTran, which was acquired by Southwest Airlines in 2011.
Each merger has made these airlines so dominant at their hub airports and on key routes that it is hard, if not impossible, for any competitor to challenge them, especially at airports operating at capacity. The combined American-US Airways, for instance, would control 68 percent of the takeoff and landing rights at Washington's Reagan National Airport. United already controls 81 percent of the slots at Newark Airport.
That is why it is important that the Justice Department not approve the deal between American and US Airways without requiring some concessions, like giving up gates and takeoff and landing slots, that would minimize the damage to competition.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (94%); MERGERS (91%); BAGGAGE HANDLING (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AIRPORTS (89%); AIR FARES (89%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (76%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (71%); APPROVALS (71%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (70%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (68%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (64%)

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (92%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (56%)

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (92%); LUV (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2013



748 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1310 words

HEADLINE: Private Group Keeps Long-Distance Watch on Iran and Possible Sanction Violations

BYLINE: By RICK GLADSTONE

 BODY:
Inside a nondescript Midtown Manhattan office, a couple of computer analysts spend their days peering intently at large screens of satellite mapping surveillance data, watching dozens of little blips moving like snails. Each one, they said, represents a ship controlled by Iran or its trading partners.
They said they were looking for suspicious behavior.
The analysts work for United Against Nuclear Iran, a privately financed advocacy group founded by former American diplomats that has become an annoying thorn to Iran, which regards it as a vigilante extension of a hostile American foreign policy. The group's latest effort is its maritime monitoring system, which it says provides a new level of scrutiny of compliance with the sanctions imposed on Iran by the West because of Iran's disputed nuclear energy program.
Although the economic and trade sanctions, including a European oil embargo, have deeply hurt Iran, the country has been somewhat successful in finding ways to evade them, the group says. A litany of clever tactics for cloaking commerce on the high seas has included reflagging, renaming or clandestinely acquiring ships, engaging in secretive ship-to-ship transfers to mask the origins of oil or other contraband, temporarily disabling onboard satellite transponders to hide their true locations or simply transmitting false destinations. 
''Iran thrives on deception and disguise,'' said Mark D. Wallace, the chief executive of United Against Nuclear Iran, who would like to see a maritime blockade.
Mr. Wallace said the recent Iranian presidential election, in which a cleric and former nuclear negotiator, Hassan Rowhani, was elected on a campaign promoting better relations with the outside world, had done nothing to alter his group's view. ''The regime has shown that it plans more of the same,'' he said in a statement on the group's Web site. ''The world's response should therefore remain the same -- the continued isolation of Iran and comprehensive sanctions.''
Short of a blockade, he said in an interview, the maritime monitoring system, which has been in operation for about five months, has at least given Iran a new reason to worry.
''It's a technology-based advocacy tool,'' he said. ''This technology and our monitoring allows us to expose sanctions-avoidance schemes.''
Martin House, the monitoring system's director and lead analyst, said it used publicly available satellite transmissions from ship transponders, including data on speed, identity, direction and destination, and correlated the information with other navigational data and computer algorithms. He said the system created vessel behavior profiles that could identify questionable activities even if the transponders were temporarily turned off.
Several times, Mr. Wallace and his aides said, the system had exposed possible sanctions violations that the group had then publicized, forcing the Iranians or their partners to change plans.
In April, for example, an Iranian tanker sailing under a Tanzanian flag had to abandon a planned voyage to Malta, which has pledged compliance with the sanctions. Warned by Mr. Wallace's group that it was a blacklisted vessel, the Maltese government informed the ship that it was not welcome, he said.
In another recent episode, the monitoring system showed that three vessels operated by Medallion Reederei GmbH, a German shipping company, had visited Iranian ports operated by Tidewater Middle East Company, a sanctioned Iranian port management company. After Mr. Wallace wrote to the shipper expressing concern, its managing director, Falk Holtmann, sent a letter assuring him he was looking into the port calls and would ''not tolerate any breach of international sanctions.''
Other instances of what the group considered suspicious behavior discovered by its monitoring system have included mysterious linkups in the Red Sea between the Iranian bulk-carrier vessel Parisan and other vessels from Iran, Egypt and Turkey; and a curious anchoring of three old tankers near Singapore, nominally owned by a Greek shipper, that Iran may be using to store and transfer embargoed oil. The Greek shipper, Dimitris Cambis, was recently blacklisted by the Treasury Department for helping Iran evade sanctions.
''We're not the only people in the world with this information,'' said Nathan Carleton, a spokesman for United Against Nuclear Iran. ''The Treasury and State Departments are following this, too. But there wasn't anyone analyzing this in total. We really feel like watch people.''
Some maritime experts said the group's monitoring system could also misidentify innocent activity as suspicious behavior. The transponders that commercial ships are required to use to signal their location, for example, can sometimes appear to be switched off in areas where reception is poor, which is sometimes the case in the Red Sea. A crew can forget to update a ship's transmission data on destinations or cargo when plans change, but that is not necessarily a deliberate deception.
Richard Hurley, a senior data analyst in London for IHS Fairplay, a global information company that tracks shipping, said it would be unusual for large tankers, including Iran's, to disable their transponders deliberately, unless they were anchored near their home ports. The transponders' main purpose, he said, is to help minimize the possibility of collision.
''If you're running a big tanker, obviously safety is paramount; you really don't want an accident,'' he said. ''We think we know where most of Iran's fleet is most of the time.''
United Against Nuclear Iran's monitoring system, called Minerva (an acronym for Marine Intelligence Network and Rogue Vessel Analysis) is one of many tools used by the group in an increasingly aggressive campaign.
The group, formed in 2008 by Mr. Wallace and other prominent American diplomats including Ambassador Richard C. Holbrooke, who died in 2010, has claimed success for persuading dozens of multinational corporations to stop doing business with Iran. It was also among the first to pressure Swift, a global banking communications consortium, to expel sanctioned Iranian financial institutions last year.
Registered as a nonprofit tax-exempt advocacy organization, the group relies on private donations and fund-raising to operate, according to its Web site. The group's officials declined to identify the donors but said its annual budget was about $1.5 million.
For Iran, which says its nuclear program is peaceful and considers the sanctions illegal, the group is just another extension of what it sees as hostile and arrogant American government behavior, contradicting President Obama's pledge to improve relations when he first took office.
Alireza Miryousefi, a spokesman for Iran's United Nations mission, noted that the group's founders had ''worked within or were close to the U.S. government'' and that Iran considered it ''counterproductive and contrary to the policy announced by the new administration in early 2009, which purportedly sought to diplomatically interact with Iran.''
In a statement, Mr. Miryousefi said the formation of the group, taken in the context of other hostile American actions including cyberattacks on Iran's nuclear facilities and unilateral sanctions, ''convinced Iran that the U.S. does not mean what it says.''
Obama administration officials declined to say whether the group's maritime surveillance had assisted the administration's efforts to punish Iran sanctions evaders, which have intensified in recent weeks. ''We take information from a lot of different sources,'' said one official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because of the subject's delicacy. ''Sometimes it's useful, sometimes less so, but we're not sorry to have it. I don't look at it necessarily as a nuisance.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From left, Martin House, Mark D. Wallace, David Ibsen and Nathan Carleton in Manhattan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JENNIFER S. ALTMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); MARINE TANKERS (75%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (75%); TRADE DISPUTES (74%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (71%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (71%); INTERVIEWS (70%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); EXECUTIVES (65%); ELECTIONS (64%)

PERSON: HASSAN ROUHANI (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2013



749 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1007 words

HEADLINE: Emerging Markets, Hitting A Wall

BYLINE: By TYLER COWEN. 
Tyler Cowen is a professor of economics at George Mason University.

 BODY:
A GROWTH slowdown in the so-called BRICS nations -- Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa -- could be impeding the expansion of the global economy. That's serious enough, and indeed we are seeing unrest in Brazil over stagnant living standards. Yet a graver problem may be lurking behind the headlines -- namely, that sustained, meteoric growth in emerging economies may no longer be possible.
The disconcerting truth is that the great ''age of industrialization'' may be behind us, a possibility that has been outlined most forcefully by the economist Dani Rodrik, who is leaving Harvard for Princeton next month. And evidence for this view is coming from at least four directions: 
THE RISE OF AUTOMATION First, machines can perform more and more functions in manufacturing, and sometimes even in services. That makes it harder to compete via low wages.
Say you run a company in a developed nation and have been automating many of its processes. Because your total bill for employee wages would be low, why not choose the proximity and familiarity of investing in labor in or near your home country? This change would help the jobs picture in the United States and probably countries like Mexico, but could hurt many other lower-wage nations.
GLOBAL SUPPLY SOURCES Supply chains are now scattered across many countries. Think of the old development model as a nation, such as South Korea, trying to build a nearly complete domestic supply chain for its automobile and other industries. The newer model is more distributed, as reflected by the iPhone, with the bounty from the investment spread across many locations, including the Philippines, Taiwan and mainland China. As for cars, Thailand has courted automobile factories with success, but the parts usually come from outside the country and the benefits for the Thai economy are limited.
Richard Baldwin, professor of international economics at the Graduate Institute in Geneva, refers to the internationalization of the supply chain as ''globalization's second unbundling.'' He sees the new world as one of ''development enclaves,'' in which parts of countries will stand out as advanced or wealthy, without fundamentally transforming the entire economy.
WIDER ECONOMIC GAPS Another barrier is the difficulty of sustaining a cultural vision for catching up economically. South Korea was a poor nation in the 1960s, and its economic rise required sacrifices from millions of people in work hours, savings and investment in education. But within 20 years or so, one could see that South Korea would most likely join the ranks of economically developed nations. Indeed it has, so these sacrifices yielded satisfaction within a reasonable time. Many of today's poorer nations seem to be more than 20 years away from competing with the global leaders, which are now themselves more advanced, and that slower and longer path to the top may discourage some countries from even trying.
AGING POPULATIONS Finally, many lower-income countries will be old before they are rich. China's population, for example, is aging rapidly, given the government's one-child policy and the decline in birthrates that accompanies rising income. It is less well known that fertility rates in much of the Middle East and North Africa are also falling rapidly. In Iran, for example, it is now estimated at 1.86 per woman, which over time would mean that families are not replenishing themselves. And shrinking and older populations, of course, limit future economic growth.
BY no means do these arguments mean that the living standards of poorer nations must stagnate. A country can improve the lot of at least some of its citizens by selling services, as seen in the relative prosperity of Bangalore, India, which, among other activities, runs call centers and sells many programming services online. Many African nations are marketing their resource wealth, and may also improve productivity in local agriculture. Virtually all poor nations eventually benefit from the innovations of wealthy nations, which they often receive at much lower prices, as seen with cellphones and medications, for example.
So the chances for progress remain, but those poorer nations might never ''become like us.'' There was something special about the 20th-century mix of widespread, well-paying manufacturing jobs, which enabled the rise of a middle class that would take significant control of government, through its roles as voters and taxpayers. Those manufacturing jobs also created strong incentives for many people to pursue traditional education, whether in Toronto or Tokyo.
The best guess is that the idea of economic catch-up has changed, which means that politics in developing nations could change, too. Just as inequality in income and wealth has been rising in the United States, newly growing nations find themselves in a more stratified world, without developing their own strong egalitarian histories to undergird political institutions or economic expectations. Many of the wealthy may produce their public goods -- like secure streets and clean, beautiful parks -- in gated communities.
In some countries, there may be a de facto ''rule by consent'' from abroad -- if, for instance, you are an African working in a Chinese-owned mine and living in a company town, while receiving your vaccines from a Western nonprofit organization. Those phenomena might not fit our current notions of national pride very well -- and might mean further splits within developing nations.
Indeed, the future path of developing countries could be much different from that of recent, high-growth success stories. The next set of emerging-market winners, for example, may retain very large pockets of poverty. And as the expectation of a single, common path for economic development fades, governments may need to rethink what they can accomplish -- and how.
In any case, we should be prepared for the possibility that, while Seoul now looks a fair amount like Los Angeles, perhaps La Paz, Accra and Dhaka will never look much like Seoul.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A protest in São Paulo, Brazil, last week over the nation's economic course. Emerging markets may soon find it harder to sustain fast-paced growth. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NELSON ANTOINE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRICS COUNTRIES (91%); EMERGING MARKETS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (88%); LIVING STANDARDS (77%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (74%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (94%); CHINA (93%); INDIA (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); TAIWAN (79%); THAILAND (68%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2013



750 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1264 words

HEADLINE: FEMA Denies Texas Request for Full Disaster Aid, Rankling Stricken Town

BYLINE: By MANNY FERNANDEZ

 BODY:
WEST, Tex. -- When the federal government declined to give Texas officials all the disaster aid they sought after a deadly fertilizer plant explosion here in April, it not only outraged local leaders struggling to rebuild but also raised another, politically thornier issue.
Why ask Washington for federal dollars for aid when Texas has plenty of its own dollars?
In a request sent last month to President Obama, Gov. Rick Perry wrote that the magnitude and severity of the disaster exceeded state and local resources. Because the president had already authorized the federal government to cover 75 percent of the state's costs for debris removal and emergency response, the governor's request amounted to a relatively small amount -- roughly $17 million in uninsured and underinsured damages to public buildings, equipment and utilities. 
Federal officials have so far paid or agreed to pay an estimated $25 million to the state and to affected families after the explosion -- about $17 million for emergency work and nearly $8 million in grants and low-interest disaster loans for individuals. But the Federal Emergency Management Agency determined that under the federal disaster law, called the Stafford Act, the $17 million in uninsured public infrastructure damages were within the capabilities of the state and local governments. The state's request to the president was denied because Texas failed to provide evidence that it ''lacked the fiscal resources to address the remaining $17 million,'' a FEMA spokesman said.
Mr. Perry has called the state's strong economy ''the envy of the nation.'' Texas leads the country in job creation, and the two-year, $197 billion budget recently passed by state lawmakers provided Texans with more than $1 billion in tax relief. The state's Rainy Day Fund, generated largely by oil and gas production taxes, has about $8 billion. The Legislature approved $2 million for West relief.
Disaster and emergency response experts said federal officials made the wisest, though not the most popular, decision in turning down the state's request. The total uninsured damages of $34.5 million barely exceeded the $34.4 million state threshold that federal officials use as a guide in determining whether to recommend approval of a disaster request. In addition, nearly half of the $34.5 million total included the emergency costs the president had already approved.
''This was a very easy turndown,'' said Frances L. Edwards, a disaster response expert, professor at San Jose State University and former municipal director of emergency services. ''The State of Texas is not a poor state. They have significant revenues. The philosophy is that federal money should only be used as a last resort where there really is no reasonable alternative.''
Presidents have been generous to Texas when it comes to disaster declarations, despite the anti-Washington sentiments of the state's political leadership. From 1953 to 2011, Texas received 86 major-disaster declarations, the most of any state in the country, according to a 2012 report by the Congressional Research Service. California received 78, and New York 65.
Mr. Perry has until early July to appeal the decision, and state officials were working with West leaders, as well as FEMA regional officials, to determine their next steps. ''These are taxpayer dollars that have been appropriated by Congress for the specific purpose of disaster relief, and I am not aware that a state being fiscally responsible is a condition for denial in the Stafford Act,'' said a spokeswoman for the governor, Lucy Nashed.
In his request to the president, the governor suggested that the state had struggled to respond to a series of floods, wildfires and other disasters, and noted that state and local agencies had already spent more than $6 million on the West recovery. And he stressed that the $34.5 million in uninsured damages was a fraction of the estimated $100 million total damages for public entities.
In Austin and in West, the denial of aid has been cast in simplistic terms, with many expressing shock that the federal government found that an explosion that killed 14 people and destroyed or severely damaged 193 of the town's 700 homes did not qualify as a major disaster. The double-decker headline in The West News read, ''FEMA rejects West, 'Says it was not a disaster.' ''
At the West Fertilizer Company plant, now strewn with crushed vehicles and mashed storage tanks, Jeanette White, 36, stood in tears the other day. Her brother was Kevin W. Sanders, 33, one of the 10 firefighters and emergency responders who were killed.
''I think it's deplorable,'' Ms. White said of the federal denial, her hands gripping the chain-link fence. ''What happened here isn't right. My brother was a good man. He was a new father. He didn't get to spend Father's Day with his son.''
The refusal has supplied Texas Republican critics with an opportunity to go after the Obama administration, pointing out that Texas' request was turned down seven weeks after President Obama pledged federal support in helping the town rebuild.
''We'll be there even after the cameras leave and after the attention turns elsewhere,'' the president said at a memorial service for the victims. ''Your country will remain ever ready to help you recover, and rebuild and reclaim your community.''
Mr. Perry has repeatedly quoted Mr. Obama's remarks, as has the Texas attorney general, Greg Abbott, who is considering running for governor in 2014. ''President Obama has yet again promised one thing and then not delivered,'' Mr. Abbott said in a statement.
Federal officials have sought to distance President Obama from the decision to deny the aid to West. The letter turning down the state's request was signed by W. Craig Fugate, the director of FEMA. But disaster experts said that only presidents could issue major disaster declarations, and only presidents could deny them, often based on FEMA's recommendations. The president also has the authority to disregard the thresholds of qualification and FEMA's recommendations and approve a governor's request if he wishes to do so.
''It is standard practice for the president to announce approvals and the FEMA administrator to announce denials, but make no mistake, the denial decision was made at the presidential level,'' said Richard T. Sylves, a professor with the Institute for Crisis, Disaster and Risk Management at George Washington University.
The explosion in West was one of the worst industrial disasters in Texas history. Three of its four public schools -- the intermediate school, middle school and high school -- as well as a nursing home and a 50-unit apartment complex sustained major damage or were destroyed. Half of West's 700 homes had minor or major damage. The town lost 65 percent of the revenue it generates from water usage, and 35 percent of its property tax base.
''I don't like to take help from anybody,'' said the mayor, Tommy Muska. ''But it came to the point where we cannot afford, with the loss of income and the loss of revenue that the city has had because of the explosion, to go out and get a grant or a loan to build this city back. We cannot repay it. That to me is a disaster.''
The school district was insured for $59 million, but Marty Crawford, the superintendent, said the damages easily exceeded that. He and other town leaders remain hopeful that the additional aid will be approved on appeal.
''We don't ask for a lot of handouts here in West,'' he said. ''But at the same time, if West is to survive, the support and the aid needs to be available.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Marty Crawford, the West school district superintendent, in a gymnasium damaged by the fertilizer plant explosion. (A18)
 Jeanette White of Indiana visiting the site of the explosion in West, Tex. Debris and damage remain more than two months later. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARK GRAHAM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A23) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); DISASTER RELIEF (90%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (90%); APPROVALS (89%); FERTILIZER MFG (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENTS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); GOVERNORS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); TAX LAW (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); INFRASTRUCTURE (70%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (69%); TAX INCENTIVES (68%); TAX RELIEF (68%); GRANTS & GIFTS (67%); JOB CREATION (63%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (90%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (58%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2013



751 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1322 words

HEADLINE: Illiberal Arts

BYLINE: By ANDREW DELBANCO. 
Andrew Delbanco's most recent book is ''College: What It Was, Is, and Should Be.'' He is director of American Studies at Columbia University.

 BODY:
IS COLLEGE WORTH IT?A Former United States Secretary of Education and a Liberal Arts Graduate Expose the Broken Promise of Higher Education
By William J. Bennett and David Wilezol278 pp. Thomas Nelson. $22.99.COLLEGE (UN)BOUNDThe Future of Higher Education and What It Means for StudentsBy Jeffrey J. Selingo238 pp. New Harvest/Houghton Mifflin Harcourt. $26.
More than a century ago, the president of Harvard, A. Lawrence Lowell, issued a warning to America's colleges and universities. ''Institutions,'' he said, ''are rarely murdered. They meet their end by suicide. . . . They die because they have outlived their usefulness, or fail to do the work that the world wants done.'' Most of the institutions he had in mind are still around today, but the doomsday talk is back. William J. Bennett, secretary of education under President Reagan, and Jeffrey Selingo, an editor at The Chronicle of Higher Education, believe our system is self-destructing. Their tones are different -- Bennett and his co-author, David Wilezol, write in an expectant mood of good riddance, while Selingo is sympathetically alarmed -- but their views are grimly consistent. College costs are up. Learning and graduation rates are down. 
Bennett's basic argument is a familiar one, at least from conservative pundits: ''Too many people are going to college.'' In the search for employment, he believes, a college education confers less advantage than is commonly assumed and leaves students with crushing debt. He would prefer to see the United States emulate countries like Germany, where most young people are tracked into vocational training, and he wants more Americans who do go to college to study science, technology, engineering and mathematics rather than what he calls ''irrelevant material.'' Before attempting college at all, students should ''critically evaluate the data: student-loan debt, return on investment, lifetime salary earnings, academic performance, skills training . . . and so on.'' This seems an improbable strategy for most adolescents and a surrender of hopes and dreams, especially for those whose parents have not gone to college themselves.
Selingo doesn't propose early sorting, but he agrees that the roughly $1 trillion students owe to private and public lenders are often wasted on empty pleasures, citing as an example the 645-foot-long river-rafting feature in the ''leisure pool'' at Texas Tech. My own sense is that most colleges are filled with hard-working students and teachers. At underfunded, overcrowded community colleges, which enroll more than a third of the almost 18 million American undergraduates, there aren't many leisure pools.
But student debt is certainly too high, and Bennett and Selingo are right that the financial structure of college is breaking down. Private universities face a decline in federal dollars attached to research grants; endowment returns are unlikely to achieve the double-digit norms of a few years ago; and the relentless rise in tuition (which Bennett blames partly on the ready availability of government grants and loans) is unsustainable. At public institutions, which enroll three times as many students as private colleges, the problems are worse. After a sharp drop in the state appropriations that once kept the price of attendance affordable, tuition there has been rising even faster.
Bennett approaches these issues from a strong anti-government, pro-business perspective that leads to some odd contradictions. He commends for-profit universities even though at many for-profits graduation rates are low and student debt levels high. He scolds the federal government for violating ''simple, sound banking principles'' by lending money to students with ''no credit history'' but praises ''private banks that, at large risk to themselves,'' do the same thing.
Even if there were a quick fix for the fiscal problems, other problems remain. According to Selingo, today's students ''regard their professors as service providers, just like a cashier at the supermarket or a waiter in a restaurant.'' He sees ''a power shift in the classroom'' as students evaluate their teachers through questionnaires ''eerily similar to customer satisfaction surveys from department stores.'' And, all too often, when professors evaluate students we know the result: grade inflation.
What to do? Selingo envisions a fundamental shift in how degrees are awarded -- not on the basis of credit hours completed but on competency demonstrated. He sees students taking instruction, whether at a traditional college or through an independent online provider, using ''adaptive learning technologies'' that ''adjust to the speed at which an individual student learns.'' Each student's progress would be continually tested and achievement recognized by a certificate or ''badge'' that would be more reliable than today's diplomas, which are essentially based on time spent in class rather than on how much students have actually learned.
Successful machine-teaching is being pioneered by the Open Learning Initiative at Carnegie Mellon University, which Selingo rightly calls the ''Cadillac'' of online education. And some true believers in the online future -- whether on the relatively modest scale of the Carnegie Mellon program or in the form of Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) -- are convinced that all but the wealthiest colleges will be swept away by economic pressure and technological innovation. Selingo is right to doubt it. More likely, colleges will become increasingly stratified. Private institutions will retreat from their commitment to discounting tuition for needy students and will serve mainly the affluent, while public colleges, in order to cut costs, will rely more on technology and part-time faculty.
As different as they are in tone, these books share the assumption that education is mostly about what Selingo calls ''information delivery.'' If students get their information from multiple providers and demonstrate mastery of what they have learned, colleges will lose their monopoly on issuing marketable credentials. Some venture capitalists think this will happen soon, which is why there's a surging number of for-profit education entrepreneurs.
So far, traditional colleges have fended off the challenge, mainly because they're favored by the existing accreditation system. But Selingo suggests that they won't -- and shouldn't -- hold out much longer. For his part, Bennett dismisses most colleges as venues for ''drinking, drugs, partying, sex,'' though he adds, with evident reluctance, ''sometimes learning.'' He simply wants them to go away, allowing for some screamingly obvious exceptions: ''If you get into Stanford . . . you should probably go.''
The colleges that survive will be those, in Selingo's words, that ''prove their worth.'' Fair enough. But there's a problem with this formulation, which presumes a narrow definition of worth that can be captured in data like rates of early job attainment or levels of lifetime income.
In times of economic stress, it's entirely reasonable for students and families to demand evidence that paying for college makes sense. Bennett construes college as a business proposition, but Selingo allows himself to reflect on what's sacrificed in such a view: ''I worry at times about what might be lost in an unbound, personalized experience for students. Will they discover subjects they never knew existed? If a computer is telling them where to sit for class discussions, will they make those random connections that lead to lifelong friends? Will they be able to develop friendships and mentors if they move from provider to provider?''
These are the right questions. In striving to ''prove their worth,'' America's colleges risk losing their value as places young people enter as adventurous adolescents and from which they emerge as intellectually curious adults. Such a loss could never be compensated by any gain.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MICHAEL BIERUT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (92%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); STUDENT LOANS (89%); GRADUATION RATES (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (78%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (73%); WRITERS (73%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); PERSONAL DEBT (69%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (69%); SCIENCE FUNDING (68%); COMPANY EARNINGS (66%); GRANTS & GIFTS (60%)

COMPANY: CHRONICLE OF HIGHER EDUCATION (56%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (54%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2013



752 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 367 words

HEADLINE: 'The Unwinding'

 BODY:
To the Editor:
David Brooks's review of George Packer's book ''The Unwinding: An Inner History of the New America'' (June 9) is befuddling. First, Brooks praises Packer's ''gripping narrative survey'' of recession-era life, comparing it to earlier efforts like that of John Dos Passos. Then, bizarrely, he faults Packer for not providing a ''theoretical framework and worldview'' that would include ''sociology, economics or political analysis.'' Narrative description and evocation has for centuries been among the most powerful forms of argument -- so powerful, in fact, that the social psychologists Brooks admires appropriated the styles and cloaked them in the pseudoscientific garb of ''ethnography'' (which we used to call ''journalism''). 
Have we reached a point where devotion to instrumental reason is so maniacal we can't handle mere stories anymore? Or perhaps we accept stories only when they're accompanied by the tenuous methodology of social ''scientists.'' I would bet that a single profile by Packer, one of America's best journalists, provides a better snapshot of real life than the legions of sociology and economics articles published since the crash.
R. M. STANGLERShawnee Mission, Kan.
To the Editor:
David Brooks's misplaced yearning for more policy papers leads him to overlook the virtues of this fine work of portraiture. He attempts to force George Packer onto his own terrain of causal and structural analysis, but these personal narratives of life as lived today can't be expected to provide that. Picasso's ''Guernica'' doesn't explain the Spanish Civil War in the way Brooks would demand, but it explains it in a different and perhaps deeper sense, to which Brooks appears oblivious.
HARRY BRODCedar Falls, IowaThe writer is a professor of sociology at the University of Northern Iowa.
To the Editor:
In his excellent review of ''The Unwinding,'' David Brooks, listing what he calls the ''three large transformations,'' omits the damaging effects of the American establishment's blind devotion to unalloyed free trade and the acceleration of the ''unwinding'' wrought by the Supreme Court's decision in Citizens United v. Federal Election Commission.
RALPH DEEDSBirmingham, Mich.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); SOCIOLOGY (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (89%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CIVIL WAR (73%); ELECTIONS (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); POLITICS (70%); PSYCHOLOGY (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); SUPREME COURTS (50%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (50%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2013



753 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1358 words

HEADLINE: Bless the Borrowers

BYLINE: By ROGER LOWENSTEIN. 
Roger Lowenstein is the author, most recently, of ''The End of Wall Street.''

 BODY:
DEBTORS' PRISONThe Politics of Austerity Versus Possibility
By Robert Kuttner331 pp. Alfred A. Knopf. $26.95.
Robert Kuttner's title refers, first, to the ''medieval institution'' that was the fate of improvident souls in England who could not repay their debts, including Daniel Defoe. In 1692, Defoe was committed to King's Bench Prison in London, where he began to agitate for a change in the legal system. Forcing debtors to rot, Defoe not disinterestedly pointed out, was injurious to both parties, since ''after a debtor was confined in prison both he and the creditor lost through his prolonged distress.'' Society responded, eventually, with bankruptcy laws, but it is very much Kuttner's point in ''Debtors' Prison'' that we -- America and Europe in the age of the financial crisis -- have yet to absorb the principal lesson of Defoe's ''bitter experience.'' 
The contemporary prison Kuttner has in mind is the policies and practices of central banks, governments, international finance agencies and Wall Street that add up to a state of nonforgiveness. The debtors he would like to spring from their figurative King's Bench include Americans with underwater mortgages, sovereign realms like Greece, overborrowed college students and just about any institution (save for big banks) with a marker coming due.
As his subtitle makes clear, Kuttner's crusade is not just for debt forgiveness but for budgetary largess as well. Enforcing austerity on bankrupt states has become routine, our financial penicillin. Kuttner says the pill is just as self-defeating as tossing debtors in jail. He is angry at Barack Obama for embracing what he terms austerity, the president's formerly trillion-dollar deficits notwithstanding, and for not providing large-scale mortgage relief à la Franklin Roosevelt. While his complaints echo those of others on the left, Kuttner's thesis is girded to a historical narrative that yields a coherent, readable and highly impassioned book.
The history that concerns him is an abbreviated version of the 20th century: first there was World War I. The winners of that war -- despite the urgent warnings of J. M. Keynes -- shackled Germany with reparations. England and France, meanwhile, were saddled with their own enormous debts. Austerity did not work out very well. Thus we got the Great Depression.
The 1930s, by contrast, were an age of enlightenment. Kuttner, a scarily prolific writer and a co-editor of The American Prospect, lauds the New Deal for its sundry generosities, including publicly financed mortgages, although, he grants, they did not quite end the Depression. Then came World War II.
The postwar leadership he likes even more than the Roosevelt administration. Germany was forgiven its Nazi-era debt, while international financing was plentiful and cheap. Bretton Woods kept currencies stable and speculators at bay, and no one worried much that United States debt ballooned during the war.
Kuttner's point is that postwar liberalism spawned prosperity. Things went sour, he suggests, when government controls -- on capital, on interest rates, on currencies -- gave way to rule by markets. Europe and the United States both ditched the welfare state and adopted the neoliberal tendencies of Washington. In a fatal step, Germany, as a price for sharing a currency, demanded austerity from the rest of Europe; it even insisted that Greek civil servants work past their 50s. The German-dominated European Central Bank turned bailouts into a ''morality play,'' ceaselessly haggling for harsher terms for debtors.
Kuttner minimizes the responsibility of European welfare states for their own distress. Conversely, he is tough on Germany -- which he says should remember that onerous debts do not always lead to happy results. He finds it unreasonable that Chancellor Angela Merkel did not grant Athens the same scale of charity that her country meted out to the former East Germany, and he accuses Berlin of being a bully, a ''financial hegemon.'' To these ears, he goes too far. When Kuttner writes, ''German characterizations of Greece . . . range from patronizing to vicious -- and they do not sound pretty in a German accent,'' one might ask, with what accent does he find them attractive?
Perhaps Chinese. He is admiring of China, whose hegemonic tendencies he ignores, for refusing to expose its currency to markets. Beijing, he blithely observes, ''takes the long view.'' In contrast, he excoriates Poland for embracing low taxes, deregulation and other free-market nostrums. Such policies, Kuttner writes, ''helped Poland and other nations achieve good growth rates, but it puts severe pressure on the traditional welfare states of Western Europe'' to lower their taxes and social protections. That Poland should stay poor so Europe can remain socialized is among Kuttner's stranger suggestions.
Kuttner is a political economist, a sadly atrophied profession. The modern economist employs mathematics as a badge of neutrality. Kuttner wants nothing of neutrality; he parades his politics for all to see. He views society as tilted too far toward creditors, not just among nations but in the everyday exchanges between consumers and banks. He aims to shift power to borrowers and to states, letting governments happily print money as they will. To Kuttner, Paul Volcker is no hero. Volcker, of course, tamed inflation, and inflation is kind to debtors, though it is unkind to everyone else.
Kuttner is nostalgic not only for inflation but, it seems, even for ''negative real interest rates'' -- the condition under which capital fetches no return. Since the '80s, he maintains, capital has been overrewarded and a comeuppance is due. In general, he sees markets not as mediating a balance between supply and demand but as favoring one constituency over another. Kuttner laments the opening of labor markets in Europe as benefiting corporations at workers' expense. Adam Smith might respond that if a Greek can find employment in Düsseldorf, both parties benefit. Progress is lumpy and uneven -- but as Smith observed, over time the Invisible Hand disperses its blessings. Kuttner rejects this classical view with an inflammatory call-to-arms: ''We need to take the power back.''
Many of Kuttner's particulars ring true: finance in America reached a point of complexity that benefited only traders; short-term loans destabilize developing countries; markets need regulation or they go off the rails. But his sweeping premises are dubious. America's postwar boom was a result of Europe and Japan's crippled condition, not just of debt forgiveness. Declining American wage growth in the '70s resulted mainly from our allies' competitive resurgence, not from rightward politics.
Similarly, Kuttner's historical contrasts seem stretched. He compares the foreclosed farmers of the 1930s to overmortgaged households of today, but today's mortgage holders are not uniformly ''victims.'' Many were exploited, but a good many willfully speculated or lied on their mortgage applications. And it is highly misleading to say that America's budget deficit during World War II was ''more than double the level that led to a run on Greek sovereign debt.'' Greece's total debt peaked at a reported 170 percent of its gross domestic product -- America's didn't get close to that level. Moreover, Greece's debt was accumulated in support of a bankrupt statist model that demanded reform. America's war borrowing was huge but temporary. Kuttner wants more deficit spending in the United States because, he says, America remains imprisoned in a debt trap. The recovery in real estate suggests that his timing could be off.
To his credit, Kuttner challenges one's preconceptions. I wish his political economy were more receptive to capitalism, but here are two large points I agree with. One, the United States financial meltdown was mostly a product of market excesses, not those of government. Two, austerity in the midst of crisis -- as Europe increasingly seems to be reckoning -- makes no sense. The charge that ''austerity mongers'' on the Continent have been standing guard over a new debtors' prison cannot be easily dismissed.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY STEPHEN SAVAGE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); GREAT DEPRESSION (88%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (87%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (79%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); HISTORY (77%); BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (75%); CURRENCIES (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (69%); WORLD WAR II (67%); CENTRAL BANKS (67%); WRITERS (66%); WORLD WAR I (60%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%) ENGLAND (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (90%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); GREECE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2013



754 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; IT'S THE ECONOMY; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1281 words

HEADLINE: Brush With Disaster

BYLINE: By ADAM DAVIDSON. 
Adam Davidson is co-founder of NPR's ''Planet Money,'' a podcast and blog.

 BODY:
As I toured Israel Kirschner's Bronx paintbrush factory earlier this month, I couldn't stop feeling amazed that it was still in business. Many days, Kirschner feels the same way. The charming, energetic 69-year-old joked about his ancient equipment (''That could be 100 years old,'' he said of a bristle-cleaning machine); his two least-committed employees, his son and daughter (''They come late, they leave early''); and how his business has been increasingly undercut by Chinese manufacturers. After introducing me to his star brush maker, Fermin Gil, a Mexican immigrant who ''can just see'' when a brush isn't right, Kirschner handed me a one-inch boar-bristle brush with a wooden handle. A Chinese manufacturer sells it for 30 cents. If he made it himself, he told me, it would cost significantly more. 
Chinese manufacturers long ago wreaked havoc on the U.S. textile, apparel, toy and electronics industries, but the disruption came slowly to the brush business. There are simply so many types of brushes for so many applications that many Chinese manufacturers thought the business wasn't worth the hassle. For decades, China lagged behind in the main categories (toothbrushes, brooms, mops and, of course, paintbrushes) and only dominated the lowest rung of the business -- extracting bristles from boars. ''It's dirty, smelly, foul work,'' David Parr, executive director of the American Brush Manufacturers Association, told me. ''Nobody wants to go to West Texas to try to catch a boar and figure out how to get the bristles off him.''
The collapse of the housing market in 2007 and the subsequent recession turned out to be a boon for China's brush exports. With far less construction and far fewer jobs, not as many people needed paintbrushes (or brooms or toothbrushes). Those who did need them chose cheap imports over more expensive products made in America. Retailers, who stood to make more from the cheaper products, jumped at the opportunity to sell them. Now everyone in the business has to account for the Chinese.
That's a familiar story for U. S. manufacturing. The strange thing here is that there are still more than 200 brush, broom and mop makers in the U.S. These companies have employed two strategies to stave off Chinese competition: 1) change everything all the time, or 2) don't ever change a thing. Kirschner hasn't changed a thing. He makes brushes the very same way, employing many of the same machines, that his father did 50 years ago. He told me that he sticks with the old ways because, unlike with toys and T-shirts, a big chunk of the brush business caters to professionals who aren't merely shopping for price but rather for quality. Michael Wolf, who runs the Greco Brush Company, a supplier to professional house painters, told me that his customers need to know before each job that every single bristle on every single brush will be attached properly. One loose fiber left on a wall can damage a painter's reputation, which in turn can hurt Wolf's too. Wolf said that he can buy brushes for between a quarter and a dollar cheaper in China, but he is never sure exactly what he'll get. Some orders are shoddy; others never arrive. So Greco sticks with the company he knows. ''My father did business with his father back in the '50s,'' Wolf told me. ''We're keeping it going, the two of us.''
At the other end of the business is Lance Cheney, 53, the fourth-generation president of Braun Brush, who told me that he would close his company rather than make the same kind of brush, the same way, for 50 years. He is constantly creating innovative brushes so that he never has any competition. Cheney makes a beaver-hair brush that's solely for putting a sheen on chocolate. He sells an industrial croissant-buttering brush and a heat-resistant brush that can clean hot deep fryers. His clients, he said, now include General Mills (he made a brush for their cereal-manufacturing line) and the energy industry (a line of expensive brushes for cleaning pipes in nuclear reactors). He even developed Brush Tile, fuzzy panels used in artistic wall hangings. He said his proudest creation is a tiny brush that helped Mars rovers dust debris from drilling sites. When Cheney sees other firms making one of his brushes, he often drops the product rather than enter a price war. Braun Brush, he said, has grown at 15 to 20 percent annually for the past five years.
Kirschner's don't-change-a-thing strategy has not brought anything like this kind of growth. Last year, he says, ''was a disaster.'' As was this spring. But June, so far, has been ''unbelievably good.'' Many of his customers are governmental agencies that prefer ''Made in the U.S.A.'' products or have precise needs that Chinese imports can't yet fill. Some of the paint on New York City subways and Texas prisons, for example, was applied by Kirschner brushes.
As I walked through the Kirschner Brush Manufacturing Company factory, I began to think -- despite all the doom-and-gloom stories -- about just how many similar companies are still plugging along this way in the U.S. There are still more than 200,000 small factories, like Kirschner's, that provide a solid, if rarely heralded, base line of American business. (At last count, there were 139 brush, broom and mop makers in the country with fewer than 20 employees.) Many of them do things the old way, using old machines (paid off long ago) in old factories, holding on to customers by serving some tiny niche. I recently met a man in Pennsylvania who has a decent business making metal hooks for paint cans using a 50-year-old monstrosity of a machine. In Jamestown, N.Y., I visited a factory that makes metal exhaust hoods for laboratories. The owner, who was in semi-retirement, told me that he would never start such a business today but that because he already had the building, the machines and the workers, he could reasonably turn a profit.
In a sense, the competitive advantage of these companies is that they are not all that ambitious. It's a strategy that we also sometimes see with various service providers, like tax accountants who are able to find enough customers who don't like using Turbo Tax and don't want to pay some big firm, or realtors who have been in a neighborhood forever and don't use the hard-sell approach of younger brokers. Of course, this isn't the sexiest strategy, and these businesses rarely expand and are unlikely to help the economy grow. And every year a few drop by the wayside.
Our economy used to be built around Kirschners. Typical factories made money by reliably producing the same standard suite of products year in, year out. This provided stability to owners, workers, customers. Very quickly, though, America has become a nation of Brauns -- one in which a product faces extinction, or a rebooting, shortly after it is unveiled. This flexible economy has many advantages. It brings a lot more wealth to those who do it right; over time, it should deliver more economic growth. But it also destroys much of the stability and predictability to which Americans had grown accustomed. These days, nearly every competitor in every field senses that one day, out of the blue, the entire logic of its economic value will be overturned by events it can't foresee or control. In this world, there are winners, like Cheney. But it is nice to see that someone like Kirschner is still able, despite a fair bit of hand-wringing, to maintain an ancient niche in this new age.
Deep thoughts this week:
1. The Chinese haven't yet (totally) undercut the paintbrush business.
2. Some U.S. companies have transformed while others have remained the same.
3. And both strategies work.
4. At least for a while.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JASPER RIETMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BROOM BRUSH & MOP MFG (91%); ORAL CARE PRODUCTS (89%); ELECTRONICS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); RETAILERS (68%); HOUSING MARKET (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2013



755 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 6997 words

HEADLINE: Data You Can Believe In

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG

 BODY:
Earlier this year, senior members of President Barack Obama's campaign team took a trip to Las Vegas. Nevada holds a special place in Obama-wonk lore as the place where his monthslong strategy of defeating Hillary Clinton by slowly and surely amassing delegates emerged. But the operatives were not there in March for any political reason. They were there to make money -- specifically to land what they hoped would be the first corporate client for their new advertising business, Analytics Media Group (A.M.G.). Its bland name obscures its relatively grand promise: to deliver to commercial advertisers some of the Obama campaign's secret, technologically advanced formulas for reaching voters. 
The potential client was Caesars. The casino chain was looking for ways to induce semiregular visitors to show up more routinely at its other casinos around the country and to keep regulars from defecting to new competitors. A.M.G. was making the pitch that keeping gamblers loyal to Caesars was not all that different from keeping onetime Obama voters from straying to Mitt Romney. It was all a matter of figuring out how to get their message in front of the right customers at the right time. It was not lost on the Obama strategists that the ''change'' they were talking about was not the kind ''you can believe in'' but rather the kind you can put in a slot machine. ''I kind of felt like the Devil's advocate,'' Chauncey McLean, 31, the Democratic Party's director of media tracking during the campaign and now A.M.G.'s chief operating officer, wryly told me.
A.M.G. was founded in late December by a splinter group of longtime Obama advisers: Larry Grisolano, who oversaw how the campaign spent its advertising dollars; Grisolano's direct-mail partners Terry Walsh and Pete Giangreco; Jeff Link, a seasoned Iowa veteran who was an outside adviser in 2012; and Erik Smith, an advertising consultant for the 2012 campaign, whose work running one of the biggest 2004 pro-Kerry outside groups gave him an inside track with party donors from the corporate world.
McLean was their first hire. During the campaign he proved himself to be particularly deft at translating between the old hands of the political world, who talk about ''message'' and ''narrative,'' and the quants in their 20s, who speak of ''code'' and ''algorithms.''
McLean was so moved by Obama's 2004 convention speech -- the one that called for an end to a red-state America and a blue-state America -- that when Obama decided to run in 2008, he took a leave from law school and joined the campaign. He had just spent the last 18 months of the 2012 presidential race bouncing between a couch in Washington and a small, shared apartment in Chicago where a colleague slept in the dining room. So he was experiencing considerable culture shock in the high life of Vegas.
Arriving at Caesars Palace after a first-class flight (only the second of his life), he was shown to his room. ''I open the door and there's just this huge, like, double, wall-to-wall window with a view of the strip and a huge king bed,'' he said. Over room service, he met with his deputy, Chris Frommann, now 26, and made some last-minute revisions to their proposal. McLean took an iPhone picture of his kung pao chicken and sent it to his wife back in Brooklyn, ''to show her that I'd made it,'' he joked.
The next morning McLean, Frommann, Grisolano, Smith and a couple of others were escorted through a maze of doors that led them to the casino's marble-and-glass executive offices, where their meeting went well enough that they scheduled another, to discuss a deal. Later that night they celebrated with a red-meat-and-red-wine dinner at Old Homestead, Caesars' upscale steakhouse.
Recalling that Vegas trip while sitting at a MacBook Pro-dotted coffee shop in Brooklyn in March, McLean treated his shift from selling Obama to selling Caesars as a small discomfort that was necessary if he wanted to keep working on the technological advancements he and his colleagues developed on the campaign. In a nonpresidential year, no political effort would have the money to finance what he described as the ''huge R.& D. project'' that the Obama campaign effectively became. The resources for that kind of project could now be found only in corporate America. If companies with big budgets wanted members of Obama's team to do for them whatever it was that they did for the president, McLean couldn't see why they shouldn't answer the call.
Political marketing has usually lagged behind commercial marketing. Companies that spend billions of dollars a year developing ways to make many more billions of dollars a year tend to have little to learn from presidential campaigns, which are generally start-ups aimed at a one-day sale. But the (re)selling of the president, 2012, was an entirely different matter. The campaign recruited the best young minds in the booming fields of analytics and behavioral science and placed them in a room they called ''the cave'' for up to 16 hours a day over the course of roughly 16 months. After the election, when the technology wizards finally came out, they had not only helped produce a victory that defied a couple of historical predictors; they also developed a host of highly effective marketing techniques that were either entirely new or had never been tried on such a grand scale.
Grisolano and McLean and the others were part of a singular breakthrough in the field of television-ad buying, where about 50 percent of the campaign's budget was spent, or more than $400 million. Previous campaigns would make decisions about how to direct their television-advertising budgets largely based on hunches and deductions about what channels the voters they wanted to reach were watching. Their choices were informed by the broad viewership ratings of Nielsen and other survey data, which typically led to buying relatively expensive ads during evening-news and prime-time viewing hours. The 2012 campaign took advantage of advanced set-top-box monitoring technology to figure out what shows the voters they wanted to reach were watching and when, resulting in a smarter and cheaper -- if potentially more invasive -- way to beam commercials into their homes. The system gave Obama a significant advantage over Mitt Romney, according to Democrats and many Republicans (at least those who were not on Romney's media team). Now A.M.G.'s founders say the company is at the forefront of a move to turn upside down the way the $60-billion-a-year television-ad market has functioned since its start. And they hope to get very rich in the process.
That is essentially the pitch Grisolano began making just before Christmas to the tech whizzes he needed to hire to rebuild the system they used during the campaign. He also offered profit sharing and salaries often commensurate with those being offered by Facebook or Google, who were also recruiting from the Obama campaign.
''You're sort of involved in this cutting edge of something and see this whole thing on the horizon changing,'' Grisolano recounted telling them. ''I think that's exciting.''
McLean, for one, was primed to hear his message. When the election was won last fall, he asked Jim Messina, Obama's innovative campaign manager -- and ardent tech advocate -- what he should do with his life. As McLean tells it, and Messina affirms, Messina said, ''I'd either go out into the country and run a campaign or I'd go make a load of money.''
A couple of weeks before Election Day, over drinks at the Pump Room in Chicago's Gold Coast, a safe distance away from the re-election headquarters and its press minders, Grisolano and Erik Smith first let on that there was far more happening in the Chicago campaign office than any of us covering it truly understood. Grisolano told me that the campaign literally knew every single wavering voter in the country that it needed to persuade to vote for Obama, by name, address, race, sex and income. What's more, he hinted, the campaign had figured out how to get its television advertisements in front of them with a previously inconceivable level of knowledge and accuracy.
Grisolano, a gruff and stocky Iowan, spent years in the shadow of his mentor, Obama's founding strategist, David Axelrod, happily so, but he now seemed eager for his own recognition. There was also no mistaking that he believed he had figured something out that would be worth a lot of money after the election. He wouldn't say more, at least not then. But after the election, in February, he began to describe his new business venture to me in detail.
To understand how it works, you must first understand the vast technological engine that powered the campaign but remained largely out of view of the public and the press. Messina, the campaign manager, often boasted about how the Obama 2012 effort would be ''the most data-driven campaign ever.'' But what that truly meant -- the extent to which the campaign used the newest tech tools to look into people's lives and the sheer amount of personal data its vast servers were crunching -- remained largely shrouded. The secrecy around the operation was partly because the president's strategists wanted to maintain their competitive edge. But it was also no doubt because they worried that practices like ''data mining'' and ''analytics'' could make voters uncomfortable.
Using data wasn't new for the Obama strategists. The 2008 campaign developed the most sophisticated system to date to identify tens of millions of voters and place them into useful categories: those most likely to vote Republican, who would be ignored; those supporting Obama -- and how likely they were to vote. That system -- based on a complicated scoring method that relied on the processing of reams of data -- was first devised by an outside consultant, Ken Strasma. But it was partly managed inside the campaign by an economics forecaster, Dan Wagner, who, at 24, helped perfect it for the campaign's use. Wagner, who was recruited by A.M.G. but decided to start his own venture instead, seems to exist in two realms. One is digital, where he operates like a Dungeons and Dragons dungeon master, trying to shape the rules to the reality he is creating (''I was a Level 14 wizard or something,'' he jokes of the fantasy role-playing game). The other is corporeal, where he is self-deprecating about things like his romantic life. (''Hey, I do 'Big Data,' '' he says.) His work on the 2008 campaign has been portrayed in a book, ''The Victory Lab,'' by Sasha Issenberg. ''Here's where I am in the 'Victory Lab' -- blah, blah, blah,'' he said dryly while turning to his chapter in the copy I was carrying when we met for breakfast at the Ace Hotel in Manhattan one day in May.
Wagner dismisses the notion of ''romantic war rooms'' operating on political gut instinct as outdated and misguided. His is a hard-data system that rejects anything that is not definitively quantifiable. In the Bush era, strategists boasted about how they could predict voter behavior based upon car and sport preferences, a well-publicized bit of political magic that captured the imaginations of politicians and journalists alike. Wagner's approach, part of a broader move in politics, cut all of that out; why engage in such divination when you have the time and money to just call voters and ask them about their leanings directly? ''We're trying to predict political preference; we're not trying to predict whether you buy a car,'' Wagner says dismissively.
The campaign couldn't call the more than 150 million registered voters, obviously. But they could call enough of them in swing states (up to 11,000 a night) to figure out how they -- and other people who lived near them, looked like them and earned like them -- were likely to vote with an increasing degree of accuracy. In 2008, Wagner and his small team combined information from those calls with any other data they could find -- census data, state voter lists and the like -- and fed it into algorithms that produced support scores. One ranked how likely swing-state voters were to support Obama on a scale of 0 to 100, and another ranked how likely they were to show up at voting booths. Those scores helped the campaign direct resources toward the right voters, and Obama beat John McCain by 7 percentage points.
But even before the president took office, as the economy was in meltdown, his strategists, looking ahead four years, assumed that his re-election would not be easy. Wagner was assigned to the Democratic National Committee headquarters, where he set out to develop a far more sophisticated version of his analytics system, using bigger computer servers, better data on the nation's voting-age population and more precise algorithms.
If there was any doubt about the system, it was dispelled after the 2010 special election in Massachusetts for the U.S. Senate seat left vacant by Edward M. Kennedy's death. For much of the campaign, pollsters for the Democratic candidate, Martha Coakley, showed her ahead. Wagner and his group had their own numbers indicating that Coakley's support was soft and dropping. His warnings went up the chain to the president, but some strategists dismissed him as if he were a '' 'dumb kid,' '' Wagner told me.
After Coakley lost and Wagner's methods were validated, the Democratic Party poured money into Wagner's department, which grew from 2 people to 15. Later that year, Wagner's team developed the prototype for what Messina says he considers ''an evolutionary jump'': a newly robust and reliable ''persuasion score'' that identified how easily individual undecided voters could be persuaded to vote for or against the Democrat in a race, based on how likely they were to show shifts in their preferences in telephone interviews conducted over time.
When Messina started up the Obama re-election campaign in 2011, he gave Wagner the go-ahead to nearly quadruple his team, which was moved to the cavernous office space at the Prudential Center in Chicago. This immediately made his analytics department one of the biggest of its kind in the country.
Obama supported the idea, aides said. But he warned in one early meeting against getting too deep into the data and ''slicing the salami too thin,'' as his communications director, Dan Pfeiffer, put it to me.
Soon after the office opened, Wagner's group moved into a separate, windowless room, the cave. Messina said he wanted them to lose all sense of time and to focus. Wagner also cited the secret nature of the work. I once unknowingly wandered near the cave, looking for a bathroom, and a young press aide chased me down and escorted me away. (Because it was also near the kitchen, at the time I thought the aide was concerned I might try to force a metaphor out of an exposed piece of rotting fruit.)
''Anybody who had a computer and a basement as a kid saw the cave as a real opportunity,'' Wagner told me. It was packed with about 40 desks, a number that was determined through a contest Wagner held among his staff to figure out how to ''best utilize the floor plan.'' The result came from ''the best combination of square footage per person, subject to constraints: You couldn't move your arms more than six inches without hitting somebody,'' he said. On the back of the door his team would affix pieces of paper with snippets of conversation they heard from people who walked by: ''Those people are weird, don't go in there'' or ''That's the secret sauce.'' Across one wall there was a large printout of the surface of Mars, a mocking reference to a column in The Wall Street Journal in which Peggy Noonan described a job posting of Wagner's as ''politics as done by Martians.''
In fact, through his postings, Wagner assembled a team that included a biophysicist, who worked at the Stem Cell Initiative at Harvard and three professional poker players. The cave dwellers would take breaks at the Ping-Pong table out in the main offices with their peers; Gaurav Shirole, a 23-year-old data analyst and graduate of the business school at the University of California, Berkeley, who also joined A.M.G., became so good that when the president visited the campaign office during the summer, the staff volunteered Shirole to compete against Obama. (Shirole won, but got in trouble with his mother when she saw the photo of him playing in flip-flops and a T-shirt.)
Yet in truth, their task was daunting. Shortly after Messina opened the Chicago offices, Joel Benenson, the president's national pollster, conducted a ''benchmark'' poll that had some sobering results. Roughly a fifth of Obama's 2008 vote had shifted into the undecided column. ''We knew we weren't going to get all of them,'' Benenson said. But the campaign needed to get back many millions of them. And it fell to Wagner's team to figure out exactly who they were, to a man and to a woman, and then rank them according to a 0 to 10 persuasion score.
As the denizens of the cave were setting out to do that, the digital-analytics team, led by Rayid Ghani, a 35-year-old research scientist from Accenture Labs, developed an idea: Why not try sifting through self-described supporters' Facebook pages in search of friends who might be on the campaign's list of the most persuadable voters? Then the campaign could ask the self-identified supporters to bring their undecided friends along. The technique, as they saw it, could also get supporters to urge friends to register to vote, to vote early or to volunteer and donate.
Identifying persuadable friends became a significant undertaking. ''We ended up building it from scratch because nothing like that existed,'' Ghani told me. The computer code alone was thousands of lines, said Will St. Clair, 25, who helped write it and who also now works with McLean at A.M.G.
The campaign didn't go into much detail, at the time, about exactly how it used Facebook. But St. Clair put it in fairly stark terms when I talked to him at A.M.G.'s temporary offices in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, in April. They started with a list that grew to a million people who had signed into the campaign Web site through Facebook. When people opted to do so, they were met with a prompt asking to grant the campaign permission to scan their Facebook friends lists, their photos and other personal information. In another prompt, the campaign asked for access to the users' Facebook news feeds, which 25 percent declined, St. Clair said.
Once permission was granted, the campaign had access to millions of names and faces they could match against their lists of persuadable voters, potential donors, unregistered voters and so on. ''It would take us 5 to 10 seconds to get a friends list and match it against the voter list,'' St. Clair said. They found matches about 50 percent of the time, he said. But the campaign's ultimate goal was to deputize the closest Obama-supporting friends of voters who were wavering in their affections for the president. ''We would grab the top 50 you were most active with and then crawl their wall'' to figure out who were most likely to be their real-life friends, not just casual Facebook acquaintances. St. Clair, a former high-school marching-band member who now wears a leather Diesel jacket, explained: ''We asked to see photos but really we were looking for who were tagged in photos with you, which was a really great way to dredge up old college friends -- and ex-girlfriends,'' he said.
The campaign's exhaustive use of Facebook triggered the site's internal safeguards. ''It was more like we blew through an alarm that their engineers hadn't planned for or knew about,'' said St. Clair, who had been working at a small firm in Chicago and joined the campaign at the suggestion of a friend. ''They'd sigh and say, 'You can do this as long as you stop doing it on Nov. 7.' '' (Facebook officials say warning bells go off when the site sees large amounts of unusual activity, but in each case the company was satisfied the campaign was not violating its privacy and data standards.)
By March 2012, Wagner's team had a workable list of what it deemed to be the most persuadable voters -- in total, roughly 15 million of them in the swing states. Messina ordered the campaign to direct a majority of its efforts toward winning them back, one by one if necessary. They could reach many through their Facebook friends and others through more conventional means like e-mail and knocking on doors. But how could the Obama campaign be as targeted and tech-savvy on TV?
The Internet, and specifically social media, may have fundamentally changed politics, but there is still nothing with the power to enrage or inspire like a well-produced television ad (see ''47 percent, Romney''). This is in part because of the evocative nature of video, which can be transmitted over the Internet as well. But it's also because that imagery is typically put in front of people when they are at their most receptive, zoning out on the couch, relaxing, their defenses down.
TV advertising has also historically been the most expensive and least efficient way to reach voters. Commercial TV time is still valued and sold in pretty much the same way as it was when people gathered every night to watch Walter Cronkite. Most advertising is based on audience ratings kept by Nielsen Media Research, which derives its information from a national survey of 22,000 households and smaller surveys in local markets, selected to perfectly represent the American television-viewing population, Nielsen says. Through ''people meters'' that monitor what specific members of these households are watching in real time and, in some cases, written diaries of its participating families, Nielsen does a reasonably good job of telling advertisers which demographic groups are watching which shows. Nielsen's ratings categories are still dominated by the broad audience segment known as ''adults 18 to 49,'' but they can also include smaller groups like ''women 18-plus'' and ''Hispanics.'' If Revlon wants to sell its newest shade of lipstick, for example, it knows it can reach lots of women through a show like ''Grey's Anatomy.'' If Miller Lite wants to get its shiny blue cans in front of young men in their beer-drinking prime, it knows it can do so through spots on ''Jimmy Kimmel Live.''
Political campaigns have typically shown most of their ads during news programs, where they can reach older viewers who are engaged in the topics of the day and, it stands to reason, are most likely to vote. If a pollster identified other broad groups that a candidate wanted to reach, like women or young men, then the campaign could venture out into other shows. Traditionally, ''these are the tools that you have,'' Grisolano told me one day at his office in Chicago, the L train screeching along the rails outside. ''You have programming that overdelivers or underdelivers in broad, sweeping groups.''
The better that campaigns -- and all major marketers -- have become at identifying precisely whom they want to talk to, the more inefficient the old model can seem. For instance, a campaign may need to win over those 5 percent of independent, female, likely voters who are still undecided, but there is no separate ratings category for them, no precise way to know which shows they are watching. It's very likely a campaign can speak to some of them through commercials on ''Grey's Anatomy,'' but by buying time there, the campaign is spending a lot of money on an audience that is mostly made up of people the candidate actually does not need to speak to.
The 2012 Obama campaign knew it had to be especially efficient in buying television time because it expected to be outspent by the combined forces of the Romney campaign and super PACs, including the American Crossroads organization, co-founded by Karl Rove.
''If we had to withstand being outspent -- and nobody wanted to withstand it -- but if we had to, we could tolerate being outspent with the people who have basically already made up their mind for us or the people who made up their mind against us,'' Grisolano said. ''But we were going to make sure that we put the full power of our buy with the people who were swing voters, who were on the edge. So, my task became, how do you create the tools you need to make that a reality?''
Grisolano was going to have one thing at his disposal that no presidential adviser had before him: Wagner's list of roughly 15 million persuadable voters. But he had no way of knowing if he would be able to reach them with any real precision on TV. He turned to Amy Gershkoff, a young political scientist he met a couple of years before who was making a name for herself grappling with just these sorts of challenges. Gershkoff was 30 years old, had a Ph.D. from Princeton and had developed software that was making political ad buying more efficient. Gershkoff was digging more deeply into the Nielsen data and matching it against information in party-voter lists to get a better read on what shows key voting blocs -- not generic television audiences -- were watching. She was finding that a campaign could reach many of them in greater concentrations and for less money on cable channels like Lifetime than on more expensive shows with bigger audiences like ''The Office.''
Grisolano recommended that Messina speak with her, and Messina hired her to be director of media planning, reporting directly to him. Messina wanted Gershkoff to build a master program that would allow him, as the campaign manager, to decide how to spend the campaign's advertising budget across all mediums -- not just television, but the Internet, radio, print ads and the mail -- at optimum cost using real-time polling data to measure how the ads were moving or not moving opinion. (A version of this project would be built by McLean, whom Gershkoff brought with her, and Frommann, his deputy.)
But it soon became clear that such a system could eliminate the role of Obama's longtime television-ad-buying firm, GMMB, run by the senior Obama strategist Jim Margolis, which stood to potentially lose millions in buying commissions. Colleagues described Margolis as furious. He called it ''dumbfounded.'' Grisolano and Axelrod backed him up in his argument that any savings on commissions would be wiped out in the chaos of recreating a system that already existed (and forgoing the expertise and relationships that Margolis's 30-person buying team had in the television world).
Messina relented, but said that GMMB would take guidance from Gershkoff's department. As Gershkoff put it to me gingerly when we spoke in May: ''Fundamentally I was brought in to create tools that would help Jim spend nine digits' worth of the campaign's budget. Any time you're moving that kind of money around, people can be resistant to the idea.''
There were other turf battles. Gershkoff was given her own analytics department to analyze media, but Wagner believed all analytics should be handled uniformly through his department, several former campaign officials said. (He wouldn't discuss it with me when I asked about it.) The two had differences in other areas as well. Gershkoff insisted that her staff members wear business attire; Wagner, who often wore flip-flops, had only one requirement of his staff in the cave: ''You have to wear clothes.''
But Gershkoff had come upon a cache of data that all the strategists would come to appreciate. She had contracted with a relatively new firm called Rentrak that was competing with Nielsen and was buying up real-time, raw viewing data directly from cable and satellite companies that had nearly 20 million set-top boxes in eight million homes. When Gershkoff told Grisolano, he was thrilled. Rentrak's huge new trove of data, he surmised, could help him find out with relative certainty what shows were being delivered to the homes of the roughly 15 million persuadable voters Wagner's department had identified.
The concept for the ''optimizer,'' as it was known in the campaign, was born: a system that could determine with more precision than ever what swing voters were watching in the greatest concentrations and how to get commercials in front of them in the cheapest advertising time slots possible. But making that idea a reality was going to be very difficult. ''My first idea was, O.K., I've got a list of people who I know are targets here,'' Grisolano said. ''I've got a list of viewers and what they watch over here. Just match them up and spit out what TV shows my targets are watching.'' He acknowledged that ''what I didn't necessarily fully grasp in my enthusiastic naïveté was that the size and magnitude of these data sets are apparently extraordinary, and the engineering feat of doing what I wanted to do was a lot more complicated than I envisioned it.''
That task would not ultimately be overseen by Gershkoff. By the end of 2011, she left the campaign, her tenure cut short by a family emergency, she said. When she re-emerged that spring, it was as the director of global analytics at the public relations and advertising firm Burson-Marsteller.
Responsibility for building the optimizer was handed off to Wagner. ''We took over in January and then had to build it from scratch, completely from scratch,'' he said. Fortunately, there happened to be a rare expert in set-top-box data, named Carol Davidsen, working in the cave. Davidsen looks younger than her 37 years -- ''no kids,'' she says -- and she speaks in a rapid, elliptical manner, as if her thoughts are running too fast for her sentences to keep pace. Before joining the campaign, she had a successful career as a forward-thinking data engineer. But she had become fed up with corporate life by the time she received an unsolicited e-mail from Wagner's analytics department, which recruited employees by searching the 2008 online-donor list for those who listed themselves as programmers. ''I'm a huge supporter of Barack Obama,'' she said a few weeks ago at Think Coffee in Greenwich Village. ''But I also was kind of at a time in my life where I needed to be part of a perfect team, and I knew that was possible in a world where people weren't worried about getting a raise or people weren't worried about getting a promotion.''
Her previous employer, Navic Networks, was a very early pioneer in the field of set-top-box data collection. And she was one of the early programmers to figure out how to make a television, designed as a one-way path for sending programming into American homes, relay information back about what exactly a viewer was watching.
Davidsen determined that Rentrak could roughly do what Grisolano wanted it to do: produce data that could be checked against Wagner's list of most-persuadable voters to find matches. Rentrak had access to the set-top boxes in the homes of thousands of the targeted voters in every competitive market of every swing state. (For instance, Rentrak had 100,000 people in its Denver sample, some 20,000 of whom were on the Obama list; Nielsen had a total of 600 people in Denver.)
But there was the potentially politically explosive matter of privacy. Unlike Facebook, where users were at least giving the campaign explicit permission to collect personal data even if they had not read the fine print, television watchers were making no such agreement. To address this, the campaign and Rentrak hired a third party to ''anonymize'' the data so that they would only know that the information was coming from a set-top box of somebody on the persuadable list; identifying information would be stripped away.
The optimizer software would then comb advertising price and viewership data to figure out the top-rated time slots among those on the Obama persuadable list -- which could vary from market to market -- and then rank them based on which produced the highest concentration of the Obama swing voters at the best rates. The results were striking. The campaign determined that two of the top shows to buy were 1 a.m. repeats of ''The Insider'' and afternoon episodes of ''Judge Joe Brown'' -- shows that were far cheaper than the evening news or anything being shown on the networks in prime time. ''When you're talking about 'The Insider,' that might be shift workers in a state like Ohio, folks who are working class and aren't getting home until midnight,'' said Daniel Jester, the head GMMB buyer, who was aggressively locking in low rates early. ''The person watching 'Judge Joe Brown' in the afternoon also may be the same viewer watching 'The Insider' at 1 a.m.''
The Romney campaign was not pursuing these same voters the same way. If they had been, Davidsen told me, the market would have become competitive, prices would have spiked and the system would have lost some of its advantage. As far as the Obama team was concerned, the optimizer helped it do what most strategists deemed impossible in a campaign between two well-financed opponents -- talk to undecided voters through television advertisements on shows on which the opposition was not running a countermessage.
By Election Day, the Obama campaign had done far more to utilize cable and to run ads at odd times of day -- who watches ''Area 51'' on Syfy at 2:30 a.m.? -- than Romney had. In all, Obama ran nearly twice as many cable ads as Romney did, 588,006, on more than twice as many channels, 100, according to analysis by NCC Media, which helped both campaigns place spots.
It is not that the Romney campaign was unaware such technology could be developed. Rentrak, a nonpartisan vendor, reached out to offer its services in the spring of 2012 but found no takers. The former Bush strategist Sara Fagen worked with the Romney consulting firm TargetPoint to develop a competing optimizing service, but, she said, the media team ''chose not to use it.'' (She is now working with some TargetPoint colleagues to develop one for a new company they are forming, Deep Root Analytics.)
Stuart Stevens, Romney's chief strategist, said the campaign used plenty of data to inform its television buying. But as far as he was concerned, Fagen was one of many offering some new service. The Romney campaign, he said, had a different mission than Obama's. ''We still were trying to inform likely voters who Mitt Romney was,'' he said, ''and until you get those voters, you're insane to go off and say, 'We're going to try to win this with left-handed Lithuanians.' ''
In the end, an analysis by the Republican ad-buying firm National Media found that Obama paid roughly 35 percent less per broadcast commercial than Romney did. Kantar Media CMAG, an ad-monitoring firm, showed that Obama and his supporting super PAC got nearly 40,000 more spots on the air than Romney and his super PACs did despite spending roughly $90 million less.
The day after Obama won 51 percent of the vote, he visited his Chicago staff, including those on the analytics team. Davidsen said Obama hugged her and signed a favorite piece of cave paraphernalia, a replica of a narwhal tusk. ''An honor,'' she said.
When the campaign ended, Obama's team of tech experts did not exactly knock down the door of the White House personnel office looking to put their newfound tools into the service of the new presidential agenda. They were heading East and West -- to Silicon Valley, Wall Street and, in the case of A.M.G., Las Vegas -- in search of venture capital and clients.
There is, of course, a tradition of political operatives leaving presidential campaigns to cash in on the corporate side. This has often been to join the public-policy campaigns of a given industry or company between political bouts, or perhaps to help with some brand and image management.
But there is just as much of a tradition in Democratic politics, especially among the young, to keep the fight alive after a campaign's end. The young staff members of the McGovern campaign left that particularly demoralizing endeavor to re-engage with their causes and their party; the Web-pioneering Deaniacs went on to feed the ranks of MoveOn and the 2008 Obama campaign.
The Obama political movement had tended to hold itself apart from the corporate world, its members galvanized by what they saw as an opportunity to change the country. But after Election Day in November, huge political success met financial opportunity. The people in their 20s and 30s from the Obama tech team had seen others just like them get incredibly rich on innovations (Facebook, Twitter, etc.) that were as transformational as anything they could hope to achieve in government. Now they started to think about what innovations they could bring to the market.
A.M.G. may be the most baldly commercial of the new crop of companies coming out of the cave, but they are all trying to translate what they learned there into future success. A few weeks ago, Wagner announced he was starting a new firm called Civis Analytics with an investment from Eric Schmidt, the Google executive chairman, who was a technology adviser during the campaign. As Wagner described it to me, he would use analytics to help nonprofit and for-profit companies reach out to segments of the population they were struggling to connect with. One of his first clients is the College Board, which runs the national SAT test. Civis will identify ''kids who are low-income, high-achieving but not meeting their college potential.'' The ''commercial applicability is wide,'' he said, so the company will not be averse to working with big, for-profit companies of all kinds.
Carol Davidsen was also recruited by A.M.G., but she decided to take the lessons of the Obama campaign in a different direction. If anything, her approach is almost anticorporate, even though she said she was not against getting rich if she could. Her company, called Cir.cl, which she founded with a campaign programmer, Joshua Thayer, endeavors to find people with complementary interests who may have reason to do business with each other, like parents with baby equipment to dispose of and parents-to-be in the market for that equipment. She calls it ''recommerce.''
''I have a lot of friends with kids,'' she said one recent Friday at her new office, a bouncy-ball and Mac-strewn onetime closet space in an industrial building in Downtown Brooklyn. ''There's this little plastic play house. Does every single one of those need to go into a garbage dump? Why did we give up on doing business with each other? Why is it always to big corporations? It doesn't have to be.'' Explaining her choice to me, she said, ''I don't want to spend my time optimizing for Coke.''
When I talked to Chauncey McLean in Brooklyn in April, he walked me through how the campaign's technological achievements could translate into services provided to private businesses, like Caesars. The casino had gobs of data on its customers. ''We have a giant list of people, and we need to make a model of likely customers,'' he said. A.M.G. would break them down along a range of Caesars Scores, à la Wagner's persuadable scores. Then A.M.G. could work through it and direct advertising toward those whose visits had fallen off: find what they watch via Rentrak in the greatest concentrations and then ply them with TV advertising.
Over several meetings with McLean and his young A.M.G. staff members, I asked them to talk about the switch in mission from getting Obama elected to helping Fortune 500 companies sell stuff. Will St. Clair, who helped write the campaign's Facebook program, said he saw himself as a programmer first and foremost and only joined A.M.G. after deciding that he didn't want ''to play the Internet start-up billionaire game, which is a lot less fun than it looks on paper.'' Gaurav Shirole said he was considering a job in the Treasury Department when McLean approached him. ''I'm a Silicon Valley kid, so the start-up bug has been there forever.''
Frommann acknowledged having ventured into politics with a certain idealism. ''We've all watched 'The West Wing,' like, four times, and we want to do our small part to change the world,'' he said. Politics, he said, was emotionally satisfying. Corporate clients meant new data sets, ''stuff I haven't worked with before, intellectually that's interesting to me.''
Still, it was hard not to detect some deeper disappointment about what was possible in politics. Frommann told me that in 2010, shortly after college, he joined the Social Security Administration. Within a year, he had helped develop a new system that, he said, would have saved the administration as much as $1 billion a year. Just as his idea was gaining traction, his entire unit was disbanded, the ostensible result of budget cuts but also, he surmised, bureaucratic infighting. Sometimes, he said, it seems as if political life can be as much like ''The West Wing'' as it is like ''House of Cards,'' the Netflix show about a conniving member of Congress living in a kill-or-be-killed Washington.
McLean says Grisolano wooed him by awarding him with the title of chief operating officer and wide latitude to hire whomever he needed. He was also drawn to Grisolano's sales pitch that the optimizer approach could prove a disruptive force in a $60 billion commercial-advertising industry. It spoke to the same desire to be part of something big that led him to join the first Obama campaign. ''This is going to be a huge deal, right?'' he said ''It's a multibillion-dollar industry, and we're going to change the way that it works.''
He said his work at A.M.G. would also help provide the Democratic Party with even better tools three years from now, when he and his colleagues say they want to be involved in 2016. ''We're going to bring it home,'' McLean said.
But for now, he does not seem to miss Washington. ''I respect everybody who's working for the president -- right? They're incredible kids -- incredible people -- but you have a limited movement, because you're hamstrung; the House is the House,'' he said. ''When you go where the money is and you go where people get reached, you have a transformational effect. Money creates change.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREW HETHERINGTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MM26-MM27) DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY STEVE MCNIVEN
COLORS BY ANDY COTNAM AND SIMON WEST) (MM23
MM24
MM25
MM26
MM28
MM29)
 CHART: SELLING OBAMA, SELLING THEMSELVES (MM26-MM27) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); GAMING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); BUSINESS ANALYTICS (70%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); MITT ROMNEY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (92%) NEVADA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2013



756 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 956 words

HEADLINE: Reinvestigating the Friedmans

 BODY:
In last Sunday's Metropolitan section, Peter Applebome revisited the case of Jesse Friedman, who was convicted in the 1980s, along with his father, Arnold, of child sexual abuse. The Nassau County district attorney's office has been re-examining the original prosecution and will soon issue a report. Readers responded on nytimes.com; a selection of their comments is below.
It is about time. The accounts of the alleged abuse didn't make any sense. No one observed anything. Parents didn't notice anything unusual in their children's behavior. No one complained of any physical pain. 
GMP, New York, NY
Like many others, I saw the movie about the Friedmans. I doubted their guilt then and I doubt it now. Getting justice in America means that a jury finds one way or the other. It doesn't mean that right was done.
We have seen psychological profiles done of every type of criminal there is. How many miscarriages of justice do we have to see over the years before we create a profile of the kind of prosecutor who is a danger to a well ordered society?
I remember the late 1970s and the early 1980s all right. I remember the fear, the stupidity, and the cupidity of the psychologists who could get a child to say anything for a fee. Most of all I remember ''Recovered Memories,'' which came back decades after the alleged sexual abuse. Plenty of fathers were burned for that and not just a few priests, I think.
Joel Friedlander,
Huntington Station, New York
In 1990, my then-husband and I were accused of abusing our infant daughter. She had a seizure disorder and had fractured her skull during a violent seizure. We had not seen this happen, so we could not give any coherent reason when the police and the child protective authorities asked us how she had been hurt. We were forced into ''guilty'' pleas in court. Our marriage ended and we have been at sword's point ever since.
The worst of it is that none of the authorities' actions did anything to protect our child. She suffered terribly from the dissolution of our family and was traumatized by her treatment in a foster home. Over all, the motivation of police, C.P.S., Family Court and lawyers was to protect themselves and profit as much as they could.
Annie N., Kingston, NY
What I am about to write is complete conjecture, but if Arnold Friedman was who they say he was, it is likely that Jesse Friedman was aware of his predatory behavior and, as an adult, legally responsible for reporting his father's actions. He may have even helped his father to continue abusing children, but I doubt he took part. The whole notion that being sexually abused as a child can make you a pedophile is utter nonsense. What it can do is make you completely submissive to your abuser out of unimaginable fear, and that can be a psychological scar that stays for life. If he did partake, it was not due to desire, but fear. Does that make the crime any less horrific from the child's perspective? I don't know.
I think it's really sad if Friedman is truly innocent -- his childhood ruined by a pedophile father and his life ruined by an incompetent judicial system.
Rohan, Jericho
Readers also responded to Ginia Bellafante's Big City column, about the effects of the Resorts World Casino on the neighborhood of South Ozone Park, Queens.
Casinos prey on the poor, weak, desperate and addiction prone. The racinos are particularly bad, because they make no pretense about appealing to the well-heeled with glitzy shows or cuisine. They exist to milk the masses.
Cuomo would now add four more full-blown ''resort'' casinos across upstate, with a promise to site a few more in N.Y.C. in the future.
I personally find it repugnant that the state takes advantage of many of its citizens who are least able to afford or resist the call of the slots.
If you really think that casinos bring economic revitalization, and Atlantic City is not enough proof to the contrary, come to western N.Y. and look at Buffalo, Salamanca and Niagara Falls. All are decrepit and downtrodden as ever with their Seneca Nation casinos.
Don1776, West Valley, NY
Casino or no casino, Ozone Park is still what it always was. Even in the glory days of racing when 40,000+ would pack Aqueduct racetrack, the neighborhood would be largely unaffected economically. Today standing in front of Ozone Pizza or the bake shop on Liberty and 104th Street, one can watch the Ozone Park melting pot walk by. Real people doing real things.
As for the Resorts Casino, it is the land of the zombies.
Ding ding ding ding $$$$.
Bobby G, ny ny
My career took me to Reno, Nev., for a seven-year stint. Casinos are integrated into Nevada culture and active in the community. Most of their jobs are lower wage service jobs -- the main benefit is tax revenue to the state. With gaming in 48 states, its honestly better to allow them in your community or lose the revenue to another state. In reality, it's just another 24-hour business. They are not the savior of communities.
Jim McGrath, West Pittston, PA
Government would cut you up and sell the body parts if it could get away with it. It is one of the shames of public policy that government will sell the citizens for tax revenue via gambling (lottery, horse races, Indian casinos, etc.), liquor and soon dope at the 7-11. Cuomo and others just want that additional dollar to spend on union pension funds; the next administration can worry about funding the broken families needing assistance as the assets are gambled away. Disgusting and it will not stop.
Jack Belicic, Santa Mira
In case you have not noticed, those pawn shops (We Buy Gold) have been popping up all over the middle and lower class neighborhoods of the city. There are desperate people all over the city, not just near the casino.
John, Queens

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILD ABUSE (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); SEX OFFENSES (89%); CHILDREN (89%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (89%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (88%); VERDICTS (78%); JURY TRIALS (78%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (78%); FOSTER CARE (77%); FAMILY COURTS (77%); FAMILY (77%); MARRIAGE (75%); PSYCHOLOGY (75%); BONE FRACTURES (75%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (72%); HEAD INJURIES (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2013



757 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 99

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: Best Sellers: E-Book Nonfiction: Sunday, June 23rd 2013

 BODY:
About the Best Sellers:
These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the June 23, 2013 print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending June 8, 2013. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above it. A dagger (&#8224;) indicates that some retailers report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our methodology, visit http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers. 
Weeks&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Best Sellers: E-Book NonfictionThisLastOnWeekWeekList11THE DOG LIVED (AND SO WILL I), by Teresa J. Rhyne. (Sourcebooks) Her beagle&#8217;s life-threatening illness prepared the author to face her own. 2133PROOF OF HEAVEN, by Eben Alexander. (Simon & Schuster) A neurosurgeon recounts his near death experience during a coma from bacterial meningitis. 3413LEAN IN, by Sheryl Sandberg with Nell Scovell. (Knopf) The chief operating officer of Facebook urges women to pursue their careers without ambivalence. 427LET'S EXPLORE DIABETES WITH OWLS, by David Sedaris. (Little, Brown) Essays from the humorist on subjects like French dentistry and a North Carolina Costco. 535HAPPY, HAPPY, HAPPY, by Phil Robertson with Mark Schlabach. (Howard Books) The Duck Commander pays tribute to "faith, family and ducks." 693THE UNWINDING, by George Packer. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux) The collapse of American institutions, politics and culture and their replacement by organized money, told through the stories of ordinary people as well as political and cultural figures. 774THE GUNS AT LAST LIGHT, by Rick Atkinson. (Holt) The final volume of the Liberation Trilogy describes the Allied victory in Europe, from D-Day in June 1944 to the German surrender 11 months later. 81349AMERICAN SNIPER, by Chris Kyle with Scott McEwen and Jim DeFelice. (Morrow/HarperCollins) A member of the Navy SEALs who had the most career sniper kills in United States military history discusses his experiences during the Iraq war. Kyle was recently shot to death in Texas. 91THE TAO OF MARTHA, by Jen Lancaster. (New American Library) An improbable Martha Stewart-inspired quest for self-improvement. 101THE CENTER HOLDS, by Jonathan Alter. (Simon & Schuster) The battles between President Obama and his opponents, from the 2010 midterms through the 2013 inauguration. 11698BOSSYPANTS, by Tina Fey. (Reagan Arthur/Little, Brown) A memoir from the former &#34;Saturday Night Live&#34; star and creator of &#34;30 Rock.&#34; 121AMERICAN GUN, by Chris Kyle with William Doyle. (Morrow/HarperCollins) Kyle, a former member of the Navy SEALs who was shot to death in Texas in February, tells how 10 firearms changed United States history. 131THE BUY SIDE, by Turney Duff. (Crown Business) A Wall Street trader&#8217;s tale of spectacular excess. 141LITTLE PRISONERS, by Casey Watson. (Harper Element) A family&#8217;s courageous effort to rescue two siblings from a world of abuse and suffering. 1515124UNBROKEN, by Laura Hillenbrand. (Random House) An Olympic runner&#8217;s story of survival as a prisoner of the Japanese in World War II after his plane went down over the Pacific. 16145DAD IS FAT, by Jim Gaffigan. (Crown Archetype) The comedian&#8217;s life with five kids in a two-bedroom New York City apartment. 17164AN ARMY AT DAWN, by Rick Atkinson. (Owl/Holt) A journalist&#8217;s account of the North African campaigns of World War II; the first book of the Liberation Trilogy. 181836KILLING KENNEDY, by Bill O'Reilly and Martin Dugard. (Holt) The host of "The O&#8217;Reilly Factor" recounts the events surrounding the assassination of John F. Kennedy. 191963WILD, by Cheryl Strayed. (Knopf) A woman&#8217;s account of the life-changing 1,100-mile solo hike she took along the Pacific Crest Trail in 1995. 202326THINKING, FAST AND SLOW, by Daniel Kahneman. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux) The winner of the Nobel in economic science discusses how we make choices in business and personal life and when we can and cannot trust our intuitions. 211KEEP IT PITHY, by Bill O'Reilly. (Crown Archetype) A "highlight reel" of previous writings, updated, from the host of "The O&#8217;Reilly Factor." 22827---------- MY DAD SAYS, by Justin Halpern. (HarperCollins) A coming-of-age memoir organized around the musings, purveyed on Twitter, of the author's father. 2352BEHIND THE CANDELABRA, by Scott Thorson with Alex Thorleifson. (Tantor) Thorson describes his longtime relationship with Liberace; the basis of the film starring Michael Douglas and Matt Damon. 242417IS EVERYONE HANGING OUT WITHOUT ME?, by Mindy Kaling. (Crown) Observations from the comedy writer and actress. 251761THE GLASS CASTLE, by Jeannette Walls. (Simon & Schuster) The author recalls a bizarre childhood during which she and her siblings were constantly moved from one bleak place to another.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (90%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (90%); SHOOTINGS (89%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (89%); BOOK SALES (78%); WRITERS (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); RETAILERS (73%); MENINGITIS (72%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (70%); ARMED FORCES (68%); NEUROSCIENCE (67%); POLITICS (67%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (67%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (67%); WORLD WAR II (65%); BACTERIA (65%); EXECUTIVES (65%); HISTORY (62%); US PRESIDENTS (60%); IRAQ WAR (60%); DIABETES (50%)

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (55%); FACEBOOK INC (54%); FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (53%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%)

PERSON: SHERYL SANDBERG (69%); MARTHA STEWART (50%); BARACK OBAMA (50%); TINA FEY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); IRAQ (79%); GERMANY (68%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2013



758 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; PERSONAL JOURNEYS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 2223 words

HEADLINE: Lesser-Known Gems on a Well-Traveled Coast

BYLINE: By ONDINE COHANE

 BODY:
At dusk I jogged along a sandy road in a secluded nature reserve outside Bolgheri in western Tuscany. A family of bristly boars came charging out of the underbrush with their tails upright and momentarily froze with a wary glare before rambling away. I saw a couple of deer grazing behind dappled trees alongside an estuary dotted with herons. A fat hare sat partly hidden nearby in a tree trunk.
Soon after, I passed through a pine forest, following a path through the dunes to my final destination: the emerald Tyrrhenian Sea. This was the Tuscan coast in August, but there was no one else there, apart from a gray-haired man fishing. I swam in the gentle waves with the sun hanging over the horizon.
I first experienced Bolgheri over three decades ago -- fortunate enough to have been taken there by a family who had in many ways adopted my mother and me in Florence after my father's death. Before we met them, I had spent every summer in Italy on a sailboat, based first in Porto Ercole in Tuscany and then Sardinia. But we saw most towns from the sea, sometimes stopping for a quick jaunt, and perhaps a gelato or plate of clams, before heading off again. 
The family who introduced us to this coastal escape seemed straight out of a novel: A Hungarian who had had his estate confiscated after the Communist takeover. A British writer who is still one of the funniest women I have ever met. Two beautiful children. And literally a menagerie in tow: dogs, turtles, a parrot, a pony and all manner of orphaned creatures they found along the way.
The kids and I would catch tadpoles in the nearby creek, eat delicious fish that we picked out on Friday nights on the way to the house and swim after picnicking under the shaded wood pergolas that dotted the private park on the coast near town. But when we moved to the United States, we fell out of touch, and Bolgheri seemed like a far away memory of another life.
The less-known Tuscan coast remains full of secrets like Bolgheri, part of a series of hilltop towns that once kept seaside invaders at bay. A bastion of well-preserved architecture, the beautiful villages are mostly free of the crowds that head to the beaches nearby. And they are the gateway to the Maremma, a land of wiry horses and huge white cows, excellent wines and seafood, chic ports and beach clubs and a region that in many ways is left to its own devices except in the brief high season (mid-July through August).
But when my husband and I first moved to Tuscany about six years ago, like most visitors we first turned our gaze to the interior of the region -- toward the closest major city, Siena, to hill towns like Montalcino and Pienza, and to the beautiful landscapes of the landlocked Val d'Orcia. But as the crow flies, the Mediterranean is less than 50 miles from our home. Our Italian neighbors took off to the coast at every sunny opportunity, pulled like baby turtles in some primordial pilgrimage back to the sea.
Their favored launch points into the sea were whispered to us with almost religious intensity: white sand beaches like Cala Violina; Alberese, part of the large Maremma Regional Park; restaurants like the chic but laid-back Rosso e Vino; and long walks to the deserted coves below Populonia. I wrote down the names in my little notebook, and on days we could get away we drove to each. We sat among the sculptural pine trunks below the watchtowers of Alberese, watched a man on crutches make the almost milelong hike to the white-sand beach at Violina, marveled at the wind surfers of Fiumara and ate more plates of spaghetti alle vongole and grilled white fish than I can count.
We were especially grateful for the recommendations because the truth is the Tuscan coast can be ugly. In the 1970s a desire for economic advancement through industry brought refineries that blighted the undeveloped beaches of areas around Follonica and Piombino, while the inevitable growth of mass tourism filled the long, white beaches of Forte dei Marmi and Viareggio with tightly packed lines of umbrellas and daybeds for hire. But huge stretches were also preserved through the creation of parks donated mostly by noble families. (The Maremma park was formerly the land of the Grand Duke of Tuscany; the World Wildlife Fund park outside Bolgheri, part of the famous Antinori estate.)
Away from the region's well-known beachfront playgrounds lies a more secluded world that stretches from north to south, often a stone's throw from the discovered spots. In each section there is a gem of a preserved hill town (see accompanying sidebar below). In each there is some kind of wildlife sanctuary or park that provides a sense of what the coastline once looked like before it was developed. In each there is a beach or a beach club that we have grown to love. Even after years of experiencing these little encampments, I always find a new surprise -- this season it was the beach club and restaurant Al Cartello, which features a grand piano set atop Oriental carpets in its outdoor (but covered) ''aperitivo'' section. So eminently civilized.
These spots are as much an insight into Italian life as they are to particular sections of the beach. From dawn to dusk, rituals take place outside. People read their newspapers and argue over soccer while drinking espresso. Daybeds are picked out, as though they are the most valuable real estate decisions ever to be made; in fact, families have often rented the same row for decades.
Generations of one clan lie in synchronized tanning positions and then siesta together. Lunch and dinner seem set to an alarm clock, with the same table reserved for three-course meals, wine on ice, or for stretching out picnics, lovingly created each morning. There is something very comforting in the regularity of the routine, particularly at this time when the economic future of the country seems shaky, at best. For one month, at least, most things are as they once were, and people will head home tanned.
Like the residents of our interior hill town, we now get positively grumpy without our coastal fix: we wind over the rim of our valley to the sea, have a swim, a lunch of spaghetti alle vongole, a nap, more swimming, coffee and ice cream, and return home or stay for a night or two.
A bit more lingering over that food is probably warranted. A prime example: La Pineta, outside the Marina di Bibbona and about 15 minutes from Bolgheri, is the type of seafood spot that encapsulates the low-key but unforgettable experience of the coast. From the outside the building looks like nothing special, a clapboard structure dropped next to the sea. Through a small door, with its sign for the restaurant, is a light-filled dining room with windows facing the water. It is surprisingly elegant, with white tablecloths, silver candlesticks and parquet floors. But it feels unfussy. The service has the mark of a long partnership: the waiters are identical twins in their 50s, and the chef and owner, Luciano Zazzeri, takes each order himself; specials are created from the catch he makes with his two fishing boats. Fresh fish is stewed in the oven with capers, olives, rosemary and local tomatoes. Shrimp comes with a perfectly cooked quail egg. The ''crudo,'' raw fish, is sushi grade. And a just-made dessert of panna cotta features local honey and baby strawberries from the orchard. We eat the courses with a cold bottle of white wine chosen from the huge list from the nearby vineyards.
After meals there we drive back to Bolgheri. We found our Hungarian-British family again a couple of years ago, and now our son swims and has picnics with their grandchildren on my childhood beach. At night the boars still pad about. The vineyards are still full of some of Italy's most famous wines. And the sea is still just a short run away.
FIVE BY THE SEA
From north to south these picturesque villages by the Tyrrhenian Sea punctuate the often-packed Tuscan coastline.
Bolgheri A charming seaside town overlooking the vineyards of some of Italy's most prized grapes has enotecas where you can try out the best vintages and restaurants whose menus include both seafood and wild game. Don't miss: Bolgheri Ti Amo, an ice-cream cart with organic and seasonal flavors.
Populonia Archaeological buffs come for the Etruscan ruins (some of the best preserved in Tuscany), while beachgoers head below to the wide bay beaches of Baratti. Don't miss: the 15th-century fortress with its ramparts facing a large emerald expanse of the sea.
Castiglione della Pescaia While the throngs of Tuscany fans go right to the beach clubs in front of town, this ancient settlement, once home to Etruscans and Romans, is worth a wander before you head to Porto Ercole or the islands of Elba and Giglio. Don't miss: an early-evening passeggiata, or stroll, from Piazza della Reppublica.
Talamone Sitting on the cliffs overlooking the Maremma Regional Park, Talamone is a tangle of medieval streets with a 13th-century castle as its centerpiece. Don't miss: a plate of spaghetti alle vongole at La Buca di Nonno Ghigo.
Capalbio This city close to the border of Lazio has become a bastion for Romans looking for a weekend escape, and it's clear why -- the hilltop town is only a short drive to the coast. Don't miss: Niki de Saint Phalle's psychedelic Tarot Garden, which includes a 40-foot-tall tower of mirrored mosaics.
WHERE TO STAY
Near Bolgheri, Relais Sant' Elena (39-0586-671-071; relaissantelena.it; doubles from 140 euros, $180 at $1.29 to the euro) is a quiet refuge with a secluded pool and pretty rooms. Poggio ai Santi (39-0565-798-032; poggioaisanti.com; doubles from 149 euros) makes an excellent base for exploring both the Bolgheri area and Popolunia, with a destination restaurant, Il Sale, and sweeping views of the sea. But neither Sant' Elena nor Poggio ai Santi take children under 12, so if you have kids in tow it is best to rent a house through an agency (most villas come with private beach access too). Trust and Travel (trustandtravel.com) and the Cedric Reversade agency (uniquepropertiesandevents.com) have nice portfolios.
Near Talamone and Castiglione della Pescaia, Alain Ducasse's L'Andana (39-0564-944-950; andana.it; doubles from 300 euros, breakfast included) is a more formal and pricey option, while Il Pellicano (39-0564-858-111; pellicanohotel.com; doubles from 420 euros) has been a jet-set fixture since the 1960s. More intimate and low key is the Relais Vedetta (39-0566-370-23; relaisvedetta.eu; doubles from $250), which opened a few years back and is a jumping-off point to the Maremma and gorgeous gems like the town of Massa Marittima. And in Capalbio, Locanda Rossa (39-0564-890-462; locandarossa.com; doubles from 160 euros), one of the coast's most recent arrivals, is surrounded by vineyards with a beautiful pool and a playground, and is only a short drive to the town and nearby beaches.
WHAT TO SEE AND DO
One of the coast's pleasures is the series of beach clubs that dot the seaside. The best have excellent seafood restaurants, comfy daybeds and lifeguards. It is best to make reservations for the middle of June through September, and many close after Oct. 1. Near Capalbio, Rosso e Vino alla Dogana (Localita Graticciaia; 39-0564-890-344) has delicious seafood on a shaded terrace, and Al Cartello (Via della Spiaggia, 22; 39-0564-881-211) features a grand piano and a mean spaghetti alle vongole. In this same area L'Ultima Spiaggia (Localita Chiarone Marina, 39-0564-890-295; ultimaspiaggia.com) is the choice for the well-heeled Roman fans who come here in high season. Near Marina di Grosetto, Fiumara Beach (39-0564-340-40; fiumarabeach.it) used to serve the best three-course lunches in the area but now do only full-service dinners -- but the beach club is still lovely and the bar serves salads and panini all day. La Tana del Pirata (Via Milano 17, Marina di Castagneto Carducci; 39-0565-744-143), not far from Bolgheri, has a beautiful beach with gentle water, and the aperitivo hour there is one of the most festive in Tuscany.
Dining standouts include La Pineta (Via dei Cavalleggeri Nord 27; 39-0586-600-016; closed Mondays and Tuesday lunch; reserve well in advance) for its daily seafood and extensive wine list. Zanzibar (Piazza del Porto 2; 39-0565-702-927) in San Vincenzo is a local favorite for its whole grilled fish. And Il Salino (Piazza Vittorio Veneto 5; 39-393-967-8145) offers a light lunch, as well as incredible picnics, which include local salami and pecorino, to go. Overlooking the Bay of Baratti under Populonia, Il Canessa (39-338-272-6584; canessacamere.it) has sweeping views of the sea and plates of fritto misto. In Capalbio, Il Frantoio (Via Renato Fucini 10; 39-0564-896-484) has equally good meat and seafood options and, unusually for Tuscany, even a vegan menu, served on a lovely terrace.
The region's series of parks are one of Italy's treasures for their undeveloped beaches, sandy trails for hiking and biking, and wildlife. Among the ones to visit during the summer are the Maremma Regional Park (parco-maremma.it) in Alberese, 25,000 acres of trails that attract both wild boars and hikers, and miles of beach; and the Orti Bottagone World Wildlife Fund nature reserve below Populonia, with a series of secluded coves great for hiking.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CHILDHOOD MEMORIES: Above, view over the hilltop town of Populonia and the Bay of Baratti. Far left, from top, swimmers at dusk on the empty beach of Marina di Bibbona
 the medieval castle in Populonia. Left, fish at La Pineta in Marina di Bibbona. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KATHRYN REAM COOK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEACHES (78%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (77%); HORSES (77%); MARINE VESSELS (75%); WRITERS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); ITALY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2013



759 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1206 words

HEADLINE: After Adversity, a Passion Unchecked

BYLINE: By VIVIEN SCHWEITZER

 BODY:
Asked by a student about her musical inspirations after a recent Baroque master class at Juilliard, the violinist Rachel Barton Pine gestured toward the stickers of heavy metal bands plastered on her violin case. ''When they're onstage, they're getting everyone headbanging,'' she said. ''Within classical music my goal is to do the same thing, to give 150 percent and get everyone caught up in the emotions.''
Heavy metal and early music are among the many interests of Ms. Pine, an energetic Chicagoan who plays Baroque violin and viola d'amore with Trio Settecento, her period-instrument ensemble. She also focuses on early 20th-century and Romantic violin concertos. She recently recorded the Glazunov Violin Concerto with the Russian National Orchestra, with José Serebrier, a frequent collaborator, as conductor; other projects include a recording of 18th- and 19th-century black composers and a book of original cadenzas and arrangements.
Striking and charismatic with waves of Pre-Raphaelite auburn hair, Ms. Pine often speaks to the audience during concerts. She offered anecdotes about Paganini's 24 Caprices during a performance last year at Rockefeller University in which she demonstrated a bravura technique and soulful musicianship. (She will also perform the Caprices on Aug. 17 and 18 at the Ravinia festival in Highland Park, Ill.) 
In contrast to the pyrotechnics of the Paganini, her most recent release, ''Violin Lullabies'' (Cedille), features work by an eclectic range of well-known and obscure composers. Inspired by the birth of her daughter, Sylvia, in September 2011, Ms. Pine unearthed the lullabies in libraries around the world and on the Internet.
''Sometimes I would hear someone else's performance of these pieces, and they were interpreting it like a passionate piece of music, like I would if I didn't know it was a lullaby,'' Ms. Pine, 38, said in an interview in Manhattan. ''But once you know it's a lullaby it takes you to a different place. You have to be calm and delicate.''
Ms. Pine, whose comments about classical music were threaded with anecdotes about the rock guitarist Eddie Van Halen and Dave Lombardo, a former drummer with the thrash metal band Slayer, doesn't plan to perform all of the lullabies live, ''unless I'm playing for a meeting of Insomniacs Anonymous,'' she said jokingly. ''It's funny, because I have been advocating to fellow rock fans that classical music can be just as exciting as any other music out there, and it's not just pretty stuff that puts you to sleep. And now I've made an entire album of just that!''
Ms. Pine's range of achievement is all the more impressive given her setbacks. In 1995, when she was 20, the doors of a Chicago commuter train closed on the straps of her violin case as she tried to get off. She was dragged about 200 feet; half of her left leg was severed and her right foot was mangled. Her upper body was unscathed. She had to use a wheelchair at first, but after many operations and a long recuperation she learned to walk with a prosthetic leg. (Four years later she would be awarded $29.6 million in a lawsuit against the commuter line and a railroad company.)
Ms. Pine, then on the brink of a major career, said she saw the accident as just another challenge after a difficult childhood. Her parents, now divorced, encouraged her musical aspirations.
''I nagged for a violin when I was 3, and by age 5 I self-identified as a violinist and was signing my kindergarten papers 'Rachel, violinist,' '' she said. ''That was the core of my being.''
Yet because her father, Terry Barton, was unemployed throughout her youth, Ms. Pine became the family breadwinner, playing weddings and orchestra gigs. Any prize money from music competitions that she entered covered groceries and rent rather than lessons or sheet music. Her mother, Amy Barton, home-schooled her and her two younger sisters to accommodate Ms. Pine's hectic musical schedule. She practiced up to eight hours a day and performed at 10 with the Chicago Symphony Orchestra; at 17, she won the 1992 Bach International Competition in Leipzig, Germany.
''I feel like my childhood formed my character,'' she said, describing ''seemingly hopeless situations'' in which the family could not pay for the gasoline that would be needed to drive to lessons or she did not know whether scholarship money would come through. ''And yet I think that God meant for me to be a violinist. That's the sort of illogical aspect of faith.'' (Ms. Pine is a member of the United Church of Christ.)
''I would just have to hold onto hope and keep practicing and doing my best and believe that everything would work out even if I couldn't possibly see how it could,'' she said. ''I spent the precarious years of my childhood living like that, so when I was injured, it wasn't, as many people think, a defining or life-changing moment. It was more like, 'Oh, one more challenge, one more bump in the road.' ''
''I have a problem with the theology that bad things happen on purpose to teach you,'' she added. ''People would say to me, 'One day you'll understand why God did this to you.' I was like, 'Not my God.' ''
As far as the damage to her career from the accident, ''it would have been unnatural to not have felt some angst about being on a certain trajectory and having the pause button pushed and not being able to pick up exactly where I left off,'' she said. ''But I simply try not to think about it.
''It's like Aslan says in one of the Narnia books. We are not ever given to know what might have been. I could sit down and theorize what my life would be like if this hadn't happened, but that would be as pointless as wondering what my life would have been like if my father had had a job.''
Accompanied by her mother, she began touring again two years after the accident. Ms. Pine now travels with her husband, Greg Pine, a former minor league pitcher whom she met at church. He manages his computer business when they are on the road. The couple have a home in downtown Chicago.
In a phone interview, Mr. Serebrier, the conductor, said that while Ms. Pine has not performed recently with the top-tier orchestras, she ''has all the elements: talent, charisma, dedication and passion. There is no reason she shouldn't be playing with all the major orchestras in the world.''
''Her versatility is beyond belief,'' he added. ''Whether it's modern or Romantic, she gets the right style. And she's very humble. If I make suggestions, she takes them very seriously.''
Ms. Pine said she was often asked during master classes about how to manage stage fright. As a child, she explains, she would set stuffed animals on the couch; step atop the coffee table, pretending that it was a stage; and perform and bow. This prepared her for real performances, she said, and she never suffered from nerves.
When giving speeches, though, she has experienced stage fright. She decided to put her anxiety to use, realizing that by facing the issue she could help her nervous violin students. Among other steps, she practiced in front of her husband and eventually improved. ''Now I can give a speech and survive,'' she said.
A lot in life is ''dumb luck,'' she said. ''I try to always think about the positive -- and ignore the rest.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Tenacity and a bravura technique: the violinist Rachel Barton Pine at a recent master class at the Juilliard School in Manhattan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PIOTR REDLINSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (91%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); POP & ROCK (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); FESTIVALS (71%); INTERVIEWS (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (56%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2013



760 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1718 words

HEADLINE: Touring, the 'Wyoming Way'

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SEGELL

 BODY:
BOISE, Idaho -- The pounding on his cargo-van doors started as soon as Jalan Crossland's head hit the pillow. After a thousand miles of rough road and his fifth straight night onstage, the bone-tired banjo man had kicked off his boots and collapsed on the mattress in his old Dodge 3500 outside Pengilly's, the saloon here where he and his fellow musicians had jammed well into the early morning.
Roused by the adrenaline jolt of his ''Big Horn Mountain Blues,'' the bluegrass closer of his touring show, some of his more ardent and well-lubricated fans weren't buying the idea that he was allowed to retire for the evening. Mr. Crossland, 43, affectionately known in his home state, Wyoming, as the ''trailer park troubadour,'' had half a mind to wave the .38 pistol he keeps nearby when sleeping on the road. Instead he fired up his rig and headed for a reliably quiet spot to crash: ''A Walmart parking lot or Flying J truck stop -- you'll always get a good night's sleep there,'' he said. 
Mr. Crossland's choice of accommodations was dictated by personal preference and the hardscrabble economics of the WYOamericana Caravan, a 14-date swing through the heart of the rugged American West featuring three popular Wyoming bands. This monthlong ''traveling concert circus'' wound down this month after treating juke-joint crowds in Colorado, Montana, Idaho and Wyoming to a buoyant mix of bluegrass, rock, folk, and old-timey music. Joining Mr. Crossland, who hails from the town of Ten Sleep and drove solo, were J Shogren Shanghai'd, a trio from Centennial, and Screen Door Porch, a quartet from Jackson.
The tour was brainstormed and organized by Seadar Rose, who shares singer-songwriter duties with her husband, Aaron Davis, in Screen Door Porch. (Their alt-country band also includes the bass player Tom Davidson and the drummer Andy Peterson.) Aiming to present a showcase of Wyoming roots music both inside and beyond the least populous state's borders, she wrangled commitments from club owners, started a promotional Web site, designed posters, solicited sponsorships from merchants (suggested donation: cash or beer) and recruited advance people at each stop to spread word of the caravan's impending arrival.
''We all like each other and each other's music,'' said Ms. Rose, 31, ''and always thought it would be cool to tour together. So rather than wait for some promoter to step in, we said, 'Let's just bootstrap the thing, do it ourselves.' After all, that's how we do everything else in Wyoming.''
The caravan's grass-roots style of self-promotion reflects a growing trend. ''I'm seeing more and more artists who don't have an agent or publicist but are finding creative ways to tour,'' said Valerie Denn, a booking agent in Austin, Tex. As examples, she cites Dave Barnes, master of the ''barnjo'' (a hard-body electric banjo), whose coming itinerary takes him through Missouri, Indiana, Kentucky, Ohio and Michigan, and the Denver-based singer-songwriter Megan Burtt, who will be appearing at clubs in Colorado, California and Texas.
''Bands are pooling their resources, coming up with unusual packaging ideas,'' Ms. Denn said. ''They're using social media to raise money, find free places to stay on the road or do house concerts between tour dates so they can pick up a little cash and sell some CDs. Crowdsourcing is the new norm among independent bands.''
An artist's fan base is critical to this evolving strategy.
''Today's music lovers may not be willing to pay a lot for recorded music, but they do want a direct connection to bands they like,'' said Panos Panay, founder of the Web site sonicbids.com, which connects musicians with promoters, booking agents and retailers. ''They want to contribute to artists' development, so they'll donate money to help finance tours and recordings. Smart new bands are tapping into that by being more proactive in marketing their own brand.''
Besides Ms. Rose and her entrepreneurial gumption, the Wyoming caravan had the advantage of a renowned numbers man on board. When he's not growling the lyrics to irreverent tunes like ''Hand Grenade'' (''When my Tommy-gun starts burpin' Satan will be a-hurtin' '') Jason Shogren, the lead singer and songwriter in J Shogren Shanghai'd (the latter term a reference to how he strong-arms musicians into his band), holds down a day job as chairman of the economics department at the University of Wyoming, in Laramie. An expert on biodiversity and climate change, he prefers to tinker with equations more relevant to what he considers his real job.
''You know how many hits you need on Spotify to make the minimum wage each month?'' he asks, referring to the popular music downloading service. ''More than four million.''
More impressively, he's among the few pop musicians who have been party to a Nobel Peace Prize. After serving a year in the Clinton White House's Council of Economic Advisers, Mr. Shogren was appointed to the Intergovernmental Panel of Climate Change, which shared a Nobel with Al Gore in 2007. He was deemed a party to the award along with 2,500 others who have served on the panel. ''I've got the little plastic keychain thingy with a picture of Alfred Nobel to prove it,'' he said. ''But I was never invited to any party.''
Not that his professorial cred ranks very high with his tour mates, who include the drummer and guitarist Jascha Herdt and the bass player Shaun Kelley.
''No one would want my advice even if I were dumb enough to offer it,'' said Mr. Shogren, 54, an affable bear of a man with a beard and searing blue eyes who has recorded four albums since 2007. ''Seadar and Aaron are the ringleaders -- I'm just along for the ride. Jalan is the real star here.''
That would be hard to dispute. A dazzling technician on six-string banjo and guitar, Mr. Crossland, a lefty, has placed second in the National Finger Style Guitar Championships and shredded numerous regional flatpicking contests. His five albums feature tunes like ''Trailer Park Fire,'' ''Mama Was a Roughneck'' and ''Hoboerotica,'' in which he casts a sardonic but affectionate eye on the roughhewn lives of Western tradespeople: roustabouts, stone crushers, frackers, chicken haulers and oil-patch strippers. Onstage, dressed in what might be called cowboy carny (denim, buckle boots and a bowler hat), he is a bundle of loose-limbed energy, a lovable bad boy who alternates love songs about tall women with knockdown banjo tunes about towns known for nothing more than ''hard luck, bad blood'' -- expletive -- ''and beer.''
He admits to considerable familiarity with all of this. He grew up in Ten Sleep, a less-than-prosperous but, like most places in Wyoming, stunningly beautiful town of 260 in the carbon-rich foothills of the Big Horn Mountains, where he learned three-finger picking from his uncle. At 17, he and his girlfriend had a baby, prompting his decision to drop out of high school and work as a sheepherder.
''Didn't work out,'' he says, referring to both the relationship and the job. ''I had more respect for the coyotes, because they're busting it out for a living. The only reason the sheep are alive is because they have humans taking care of them. Not the Wyoming way.''
After a miserable stint working on a mobile-home assembly line in a Casper factory, he decided to devote himself full time to his music. ''I learned that a bad day on the road playing music beats a good day at work,'' he said.
The caravan was inspired by the 2011 Railroad Revival Tour, in which members of Mumford & Sons, Edward Sharpe & the Magnetic Zeros, and Old Crow Medicine Show traveled across the Southwest. ''We wanted to replicate some of the camaraderie and spirit of that tour,'' said Mr. Davis, 35, ''particularly the all-band jam sessions they did at the end of their shows. They just tore it up.''
Both that tour and the caravan featured musicians who claim fealty to the mash-up genre known as Americana, but the similarities largely end there. Mumford et al traveled across the balmy Southwest amid the comforts of the pristinely restored Silver Solarium train car, while the Wyoming bands piled into two vans and Mr. Shogren's Toyota 4Runner, braving spring hailstorms, snow-clogged mountain passes and squalls that threatened to blow their vehicles into oncoming traffic. Just outside Missoula, Mont., after a long, winding, steep descent through Hellgate Canyon, Mr. Crossland discovered that he had blown a brake line when he pumped his pedal at the bottom of the gorge. ''I think God wanted me to play Missoula,'' he said.
And while Edward Sharpe & the Magnetic Zeros could choose among sleeper cars, Mr. Crossland curled up each night in his van, which is tricked out with a writing desk, coffee maker, wardrobe, banjo and guitar racks, and caches of food (mostly canned peaches). Hoping for warm weather, the others had planned to camp, but unusually frigid late-spring weather forced them indoors most nights.
The caravan players did steal one page from the Railroad Revival tour playbook: after each band had played its 40-minute set, they brought on all the musicians for a rousing group encore. At Pengilly's they dove into Mr. Crossland's ''Big Horn Mountain Blues,'' so popular in Wyoming it is practically the official state song.
As Mr. Crossland blazed through Scruggs-style finger rolls on the banjo, backed by Mr. Shogren on mandolin, Ms. Rose and Mr. Davis on guitars, and the expanded rhythm section, Western-swing dancers pushed onto the crowded saloon floor. Bodies twirled, dipped, slammed together and separated as couples frantically executed sugar pushes, tuck passes and whips in time to the quick-time bluegrass.
Then, as if on cue (the West, if no longer quite so Wild, is still rowdy), a fight broke out. Fists flew, bottles crashed, a couple of bouncers separated the brawlers, and the altercation was over as quickly as it began.
As he packed up his instruments, Mr. Crossland cracked open a last beer. ''I guess that was our fault,'' he said with his customary sly smile. ''I heard there was a bikini rodeo in town, so a lot of the men were already a little stimulated. Then we incited them to riot with bluegrass music. Not very sensitive.''
Then he loaded his banjo and guitar into his van, rolled the panel door shut and stretched out on his futon. That's when the pounding began.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The WYOamericana Caravan: top right, Jallan Crossland, foreground at center, with members of the bands Screen Door Porch and J Shogren Shanghai'd, on a stop in the Sawtooth National Forest in Idaho
right, playing at the Whiskey Jacques bar in Ketchum, Idaho
below, Mr. Crossland and, in a checked shirt, Jason Shogren.
Far right, Mr. Crossland, bottom center, Mr. Shogren
 above, Seadar Rose and Aaron Davis. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID SEELIG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); COUNTRY MUSIC (89%); MUSIC (89%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); SEDANS (76%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (76%); MOBILE HOMES (74%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (73%); SONG WRITING (71%); SPONSORSHIP (69%); TRAILER PARKS (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOISE, ID, USA (91%) WYOMING, USA (95%); IDAHO, USA (94%); COLORADO, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2013



761 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; PERSONAL JOURNEYS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 2223 words

HEADLINE: Lesser-Known Gems on a Well-Traveled Coast

BYLINE: By ONDINE COHANE

 BODY:
At dusk I jogged along a sandy road in a secluded nature reserve outside Bolgheri in western Tuscany. A family of bristly boars came charging out of the underbrush with their tails upright and momentarily froze with a wary glare before rambling away. I saw a couple of deer grazing behind dappled trees alongside an estuary dotted with herons. A fat hare sat partly hidden nearby in a tree trunk.
Soon after, I passed through a pine forest, following a path through the dunes to my final destination: the emerald Tyrrhenian Sea. This was the Tuscan coast in August, but there was no one else there, apart from a gray-haired man fishing. I swam in the gentle waves with the sun hanging over the horizon.
I first experienced Bolgheri over three decades ago -- fortunate enough to have been taken there by a family who had in many ways adopted my mother and me in Florence after my father's death. Before we met them, I had spent every summer in Italy on a sailboat, based first in Porto Ercole in Tuscany and then Sardinia. But we saw most towns from the sea, sometimes stopping for a quick jaunt, and perhaps a gelato or plate of clams, before heading off again. 
The family who introduced us to this coastal escape seemed straight out of a novel: A Hungarian who had had his estate confiscated after the Communist takeover. A British writer who is still one of the funniest women I have ever met. Two beautiful children. And literally a menagerie in tow: dogs, turtles, a parrot, a pony and all manner of orphaned creatures they found along the way.
The kids and I would catch tadpoles in the nearby creek, eat delicious fish that we picked out on Friday nights on the way to the house and swim after picnicking under the shaded wood pergolas that dotted the private park on the coast near town. But when we moved to the United States, we fell out of touch, and Bolgheri seemed like a far away memory of another life.
The less-known Tuscan coast remains full of secrets like Bolgheri, part of a series of hilltop towns that once kept seaside invaders at bay. A bastion of well-preserved architecture, the beautiful villages are mostly free of the crowds that head to the beaches nearby. And they are the gateway to the Maremma, a land of wiry horses and huge white cows, excellent wines and seafood, chic ports and beach clubs and a region that in many ways is left to its own devices except in the brief high season (mid-July through August).
But when my husband and I first moved to Tuscany about six years ago, like most visitors we first turned our gaze to the interior of the region -- toward the closest major city, Siena, to hill towns like Montalcino and Pienza, and to the beautiful landscapes of the landlocked Val d'Orcia. But as the crow flies, the Mediterranean is less than 50 miles from our home. Our Italian neighbors took off to the coast at every sunny opportunity, pulled like baby turtles in some primordial pilgrimage back to the sea.
Their favored launch points into the sea were whispered to us with almost religious intensity: white sand beaches like Cala Violina; Alberese, part of the large Maremma Regional Park; restaurants like the chic but laid-back Rosso e Vino; and long walks to the deserted coves below Populonia. I wrote down the names in my little notebook, and on days we could get away we drove to each. We sat among the sculptural pine trunks below the watchtowers of Alberese, watched a man on crutches make the almost milelong hike to the white-sand beach at Violina, marveled at the wind surfers of Fiumara and ate more plates of spaghetti alle vongole and grilled white fish than I can count.
We were especially grateful for the recommendations because the truth is the Tuscan coast can be ugly. In the 1970s a desire for economic advancement through industry brought refineries that blighted the undeveloped beaches of areas around Follonica and Piombino, while the inevitable growth of mass tourism filled the long, white beaches of Forte dei Marmi and Viareggio with tightly packed lines of umbrellas and daybeds for hire. But huge stretches were also preserved through the creation of parks donated mostly by noble families. (The Maremma park was formerly the land of the Grand Duke of Tuscany; the World Wildlife Fund park outside Bolgheri, part of the famous Antinori estate.)
Away from the region's well-known beachfront playgrounds lies a more secluded world that stretches from north to south, often a stone's throw from the discovered spots. In each section there is a gem of a preserved hill town (see accompanying sidebar below). In each there is some kind of wildlife sanctuary or park that provides a sense of what the coastline once looked like before it was developed. In each there is a beach or a beach club that we have grown to love. Even after years of experiencing these little encampments, I always find a new surprise -- this season it was the beach club and restaurant Al Cartello, which features a grand piano set atop Oriental carpets in its outdoor (but covered) ''aperitivo'' section. So eminently civilized.
These spots are as much an insight into Italian life as they are to particular sections of the beach. From dawn to dusk, rituals take place outside. People read their newspapers and argue over soccer while drinking espresso. Daybeds are picked out, as though they are the most valuable real estate decisions ever to be made; in fact, families have often rented the same row for decades.
Generations of one clan lie in synchronized tanning positions and then siesta together. Lunch and dinner seem set to an alarm clock, with the same table reserved for three-course meals, wine on ice, or for stretching out picnics, lovingly created each morning. There is something very comforting in the regularity of the routine, particularly at this time when the economic future of the country seems shaky, at best. For one month, at least, most things are as they once were, and people will head home tanned.
Like the residents of our interior hill town, we now get positively grumpy without our coastal fix: we wind over the rim of our valley to the sea, have a swim, a lunch of spaghetti alle vongole, a nap, more swimming, coffee and ice cream, and return home or stay for a night or two.
A bit more lingering over that food is probably warranted. A prime example: La Pineta, outside the Marina di Bibbona and about 15 minutes from Bolgheri, is the type of seafood spot that encapsulates the low-key but unforgettable experience of the coast. From the outside the building looks like nothing special, a clapboard structure dropped next to the sea. Through a small door, with its sign for the restaurant, is a light-filled dining room with windows facing the water. It is surprisingly elegant, with white tablecloths, silver candlesticks and parquet floors. But it feels unfussy. The service has the mark of a long partnership: the waiters are identical twins in their 50s, and the chef and owner, Luciano Zazzeri, takes each order himself; specials are created from the catch he makes with his two fishing boats. Fresh fish is stewed in the oven with capers, olives, rosemary and local tomatoes. Shrimp comes with a perfectly cooked quail egg. The ''crudo,'' raw fish, is sushi grade. And a just-made dessert of panna cotta features local honey and baby strawberries from the orchard. We eat the courses with a cold bottle of white wine chosen from the huge list from the nearby vineyards.
After meals there we drive back to Bolgheri. We found our Hungarian-British family again a couple of years ago, and now our son swims and has picnics with their grandchildren on my childhood beach. At night the boars still pad about. The vineyards are still full of some of Italy's most famous wines. And the sea is still just a short run away.
FIVE BY THE SEA
From north to south these picturesque villages by the Tyrrhenian Sea punctuate the often-packed Tuscan coastline.
Bolgheri A charming seaside town overlooking the vineyards of some of Italy's most prized grapes has enotecas where you can try out the best vintages and restaurants whose menus include both seafood and wild game. Don't miss: Bolgheri Ti Amo, an ice-cream cart with organic and seasonal flavors.
Populonia Archaeological buffs come for the Etruscan ruins (some of the best preserved in Tuscany), while beachgoers head below to the wide bay beaches of Baratti. Don't miss: the 15th-century fortress with its ramparts facing a large emerald expanse of the sea.
Castiglione della Pescaia While the throngs of Tuscany fans go right to the beach clubs in front of town, this ancient settlement, once home to Etruscans and Romans, is worth a wander before you head to Porto Ercole or the islands of Elba and Giglio. Don't miss: an early-evening passeggiata, or stroll, from Piazza della Reppublica.
Talamone Sitting on the cliffs overlooking the Maremma Regional Park, Talamone is a tangle of medieval streets with a 13th-century castle as its centerpiece. Don't miss: a plate of spaghetti alle vongole at La Buca di Nonno Ghigo.
Capalbio This city close to the border of Lazio has become a bastion for Romans looking for a weekend escape, and it's clear why -- the hilltop town is only a short drive to the coast. Don't miss: Niki de Saint Phalle's psychedelic Tarot Garden, which includes a 40-foot-tall tower of mirrored mosaics.
WHERE TO STAY
Near Bolgheri, Relais Sant' Elena (39-0586-671-071; relaissantelena.it; doubles from 140 euros, $180 at $1.29 to the euro) is a quiet refuge with a secluded pool and pretty rooms. Poggio ai Santi (39-0565-798-032; poggioaisanti.com; doubles from 149 euros) makes an excellent base for exploring both the Bolgheri area and Popolunia, with a destination restaurant, Il Sale, and sweeping views of the sea. But neither Sant' Elena nor Poggio ai Santi take children under 12, so if you have kids in tow it is best to rent a house through an agency (most villas come with private beach access too). Trust and Travel (trustandtravel.com) and the Cedric Reversade agency (uniquepropertiesandevents.com) have nice portfolios.
Near Talamone and Castiglione della Pescaia, Alain Ducasse's L'Andana (39-0564-944-950; andana.it; doubles from 300 euros, breakfast included) is a more formal and pricey option, while Il Pellicano (39-0564-858-111; pellicanohotel.com; doubles from 420 euros) has been a jet-set fixture since the 1960s. More intimate and low key is the Relais Vedetta (39-0566-370-23; relaisvedetta.eu; doubles from $250), which opened a few years back and is a jumping-off point to the Maremma and gorgeous gems like the town of Massa Marittima. And in Capalbio, Locanda Rossa (39-0564-890-462; locandarossa.com; doubles from 160 euros), one of the coast's most recent arrivals, is surrounded by vineyards with a beautiful pool and a playground, and is only a short drive to the town and nearby beaches.
WHAT TO SEE AND DO
One of the coast's pleasures is the series of beach clubs that dot the seaside. The best have excellent seafood restaurants, comfy daybeds and lifeguards. It is best to make reservations for the middle of June through September, and many close after Oct. 1. Near Capalbio, Rosso e Vino alla Dogana (Localita Graticciaia; 39-0564-890-344) has delicious seafood on a shaded terrace, and Al Cartello (Via della Spiaggia, 22; 39-0564-881-211) features a grand piano and a mean spaghetti alle vongole. In this same area L'Ultima Spiaggia (Localita Chiarone Marina, 39-0564-890-295; ultimaspiaggia.com) is the choice for the well-heeled Roman fans who come here in high season. Near Marina di Grosetto, Fiumara Beach (39-0564-340-40; fiumarabeach.it) used to serve the best three-course lunches in the area but now do only full-service dinners -- but the beach club is still lovely and the bar serves salads and panini all day. La Tana del Pirata (Via Milano 17, Marina di Castagneto Carducci; 39-0565-744-143), not far from Bolgheri, has a beautiful beach with gentle water, and the aperitivo hour there is one of the most festive in Tuscany.
Dining standouts include La Pineta (Via dei Cavalleggeri Nord 27; 39-0586-600-016; closed Mondays and Tuesday lunch; reserve well in advance) for its daily seafood and extensive wine list. Zanzibar (Piazza del Porto 2; 39-0565-702-927) in San Vincenzo is a local favorite for its whole grilled fish. And Il Salino (Piazza Vittorio Veneto 5; 39-393-967-8145) offers a light lunch, as well as incredible picnics, which include local salami and pecorino, to go. Overlooking the Bay of Baratti under Populonia, Il Canessa (39-338-272-6584; canessacamere.it) has sweeping views of the sea and plates of fritto misto. In Capalbio, Il Frantoio (Via Renato Fucini 10; 39-0564-896-484) has equally good meat and seafood options and, unusually for Tuscany, even a vegan menu, served on a lovely terrace.
The region's series of parks are one of Italy's treasures for their undeveloped beaches, sandy trails for hiking and biking, and wildlife. Among the ones to visit during the summer are the Maremma Regional Park (parco-maremma.it) in Alberese, 25,000 acres of trails that attract both wild boars and hikers, and miles of beach; and the Orti Bottagone World Wildlife Fund nature reserve below Populonia, with a series of secluded coves great for hiking.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CHILDHOOD MEMORIES: Above, view over the hilltop town of Populonia and the Bay of Baratti. Far left, from top, swimmers at dusk on the empty beach of Marina di Bibbona
 the medieval castle in Populonia. Left, fish at La Pineta in Marina di Bibbona. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KATHRYN REAM COOK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEACHES (78%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (77%); HORSES (77%); MARINE VESSELS (75%); WRITERS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ITALY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2013



762 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2013

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 596 words

HEADLINE: In Times Square, a Marriage Proposal That's 'Them'

BYLINE: MONA EL NAGGAR


HIGHLIGHT: Family members, friends and professors watched as a couple on opposite ends of the political spectrum got engaged. 

 BODY:
John Cusick stood at the bottom of the TKTS stairs in Times Square, looked up and yelled out, "Mic check."
The crowd echoed back: "Mic check."
This was not the beginning of a protest; it was a marriage proposal.
"Sally, you make me the happiest man alive," Mr. Cusick, 23, said on Saturday as he looked straight into his girlfriend's bewildered eyes. Over 200 people repeated his words, which for a moment seemed to engulf one of the most chaotic places in New York City. 
Mr. Cusick and Sally Abdel Ghaffar, 23, were both students at the John Jay College of Criminal Justice when they met in 2010. Mr. Cusick was vice president of the school's Republican club, and Ms. Abdel Ghaffar was president of the Democratic club.
"No matter what one of them said in class, the other said the opposite," said Amy Green, a professor at John Jay College, who went to watch the proposal. "In the beginning I thought it was kind of showy, but then I realized that it's them."
The couple's political divisions are real. Ron Paul is an off-limits topic. Abortion is a tricky subject. On the economy, they fall on opposite ends of the spectrum. Ms. Abdel Ghaffar describes herself as a socialist. But the constant altercations eventually brought them closer. Mr. Cusick recalled the first time he found himself opening up to Ms. Abdel Ghaffar. He told her that his parents had been evicted, and he talked about his struggle to stay above the poverty line.
"It was the first time we opened up about who we were and where we were coming from," Mr. Cusick said.
Mr. Cusick was raised Roman Catholic, Ms. Abdel Ghaffar Muslim. His family is from New Jersey, hers from Egypt. But both are die-hard activists - not afraid to break with tradition. At one point, Ms. Abdel Ghaffar suggested to Mr. Cusick that they take a trip to Egypt and run youth empowerment workshops for high school students. Mr. Cusick accepted, and in January 2011 they flew to Cairo and ran a number of workshops on how to use social media, among other tools, for political expression.
When they completed the workshops, Mr. Cusick flew out on Jan. 24, only one day before the Egyptian revolution erupted. Ms. Abdel Ghaffar stayed and participated in the protests.
On Jan. 28, when the government took down Internet and cellphone service, Ms. Abdel Ghaffar called Mr. Cusick from a land line and asked him to reach out to her father in New York and to let him know that she was fine. It was then that Mr. Cusick asked if Ms. Abdel Ghaffar would go out with him.
"I had started to see a different side that was more vulnerable and compassionate," Mr. Cusick said, adding that the entire trip was an eye-opening experience. "I just wanted to encourage her to come back."
Two and a half years later, Mr. Cusick staged what Ms. Abdel Ghaffar called the "perfect proposal." He asked more than 60 family members, friends and professors to come to Times Square and spread themselves out along the stairs and encourage others to participate. Friends came carrying pink signs that read "Say Yes!!" Family members started to introduce themselves to one another. More than a dozen pizza and doughnut boxes were set aside for the after party. At 8:10 p.m., all was set.
Falling on one knee, Mr. Cusick asked the question. "Will you marry me?" It reverberated.
The cheering that followed turned Ms. Abdel Ghaffar's "yes" into a whisper.

        
On the Subway, Dioramas of Manhattan Life
        
Weiner's Defenders and His Critics Stand Their Ground
        
It Wasn't the Day to Ask Cuomo About the Mood in Albany
        
Fast-Food Workers Walk Off the Job
        
Bloomberg Irked by Movies and Media

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); FAMILY (89%); 2011 EGYPTIAN PROTESTS (77%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (75%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); POLITICS (74%); HIGH SCHOOLS (70%); RELIGION (63%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (62%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (62%); SOCIAL MEDIA (60%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (50%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%) John Jay College of Criminal Justice; Politics and Government; Times Square and 42nd Street (Manhattan, NY); Weddings and Engagements; People & Neighborhoods

ORGANIZATION: John Jay College of Criminal Justice

PERSON: RON PAUL (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); CAIRO, EGYPT (53%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) EGYPT (93%); UNITED STATES (93%) Times Square and 42nd Street (Manhattan, NY)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2013



763 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: Only the Left Can Save Greece

BYLINE: By JAMES K. GALBRAITH and YANIS VAROUFAKIS. 
James K. Galbraith and Yanis Varoufakis are professors at the Lyndon B. Johnson School of Public Affairs at the University of Texas at Austin.

 BODY:
ATHENS -- THE sudden closure of Greece's state television and radio network, the Hellenic Broadcasting Corporation, known as ERT, on June 11 has led to a political drama. The network's journalists and staff have occupied ERT buildings, and large crowds have gathered to show support. With transmitters dark, broadcasting resumed over the Internet, and soon stations all over Europe picked up the feeds. Overnight, a state-run organization that had long been reviled for corruption and cronyism became the voice of a democratic resistance.
The crisis could also take down the Greek government and bring the left-wing opposition to power. This wouldn't be a bad thing for Europe or the United States. The policies currently imposed upon Europe's periphery are worsening the crisis, threatening Europe's integrity and jeopardizing growth. A Greek government that rejects these self-defeating policies will do more help than harm. 
We traveled to Thessaloniki on June 12, the day after ERT was closed, for a scheduled interview at ET3, a local ERT station. Our interview never happened because the channel had ceased broadcasting hours before. But at the offices, we ran into Alexis Tsipras, head of the opposition party Syriza, which narrowly lost Greece's national election last June. Mr. Tsipras is now running a campaign to reinstate ERT as a potentially independent broadcaster. Having greeted the occupiers, Mr. Tsipras walked with us to a nearby hall for an economic discussion that had acquired, suddenly, an audience of over 2,000 people.
Greece's prime minister, Antonis Samaras, closed ERT to meet European demands for public-sector cuts. If his coalition partners don't fall in line, there will be new elections in which they will be destroyed. But Mr. Samaras may have overreached.
Despite its flaws, ERT is the only mass forum for public discourse that Greeks have; closing it took all noncommercial political discourse and local news off the air. Now, the government has turned a murky debate over austerity, confidence and credit markets into an open fight over democracy and national independence. In that fight, Syriza stands as the alternative, and Mr. Tsipras now has a chance of becoming prime minister.
If he succeeds, nothing vital would change for the United States. Syriza doesn't intend to leave NATO or close American military bases. Of course, American complicity in the Greek dictatorship of 1967 to 1974 hasn't been forgotten, and any Greek government will naturally disagree with the United States, to a degree, over the Middle East. But the fact is, Greece's problem today is with Europe, and Mr. Tsipras doesn't want to pick a fight with Washington.
The global financial sector would view a Syriza victory with horror. But banks and hedge funds know that most Greek debt is held by European taxpayers and by the European Central Bank, and what's left is being snapped up by investors because they know it will be paid. Big Finance is worried about what may happen elsewhere if a left-wing party wins in Greece. This instinct is natural for bankers. But for the American government to adopt the same fear-driven stance would be strategically shortsighted.
Indeed, right now, Syriza may be Europe's best hope. Greeks neither want to leave the euro nor see the euro zone disintegrate, an eventuality likely to bring down the European Union. They also know that Europe's approach to the crisis, involving increasingly harsh austerity and larger loans, has failed miserably.
If these policies don't change, the total collapse of the Greek economy is imminent. The basic requirements for reform could be met within existing European treaties. They include a mutualization of servicing sovereign debt to be mediated by the E.C.B.; restructuring of the European banks by a European Stability Mechanism turned into a kind of European equivalent of America's post-crisis Troubled Asset Relief Program; an investment and jobs program; and a Europe-wide initiative to meet the social and human crisis by strengthening unemployment insurance, basic pensions, deposit insurance and core public institutions like education and health.
Syriza plans to fight both rising hunger and a xenophobic neo-Nazi party, Golden Dawn, with school lunches and food stamps. A Syriza government would seek these reforms and the salvation of the European project. And this can be only a good thing for the United States.
An unlikely campaign to change the flawed policies that govern the European Union has begun in Greece, a small, proud country that has, in the past, given quite a few ideas to the world -- including one, people's government, that we like to call by its Greek name.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (91%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (78%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (76%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (75%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (75%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); INTERNET BROADCASTING (73%); LIBERALISM (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (60%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATHENS, GREECE (92%) GREECE (97%); EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2013



764 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 487 words

HEADLINE: Economic Reports for the Week Ahead

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS Data to be released this week includes the Chicago Fed National Activity Index for May (Monday); new orders for manufactured durable goods, the Standard & Poor's Case-Shiller home price index and new-home sales for May (Tuesday); personal consumption in May (Wednesday); personal income and spending and pending home sales for May and initial jobless claims (Thursday); and the Chicago Purchasing Manager Index for May and the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final June consumer sentiment index (Friday). International data will include the Bank of England Financial Stability Report (Wednesday); Euro-area economic confidence, German unemployment, French consumer confidence for June, and Chinese industrial corporate profit and Japanese inflation for May (Thursday); and Japanese unemployment, household spending and retail sales for May, as well as Japanese automakers production and French producer prices and consumer spending for May (Friday). 
CORPORATE EARNINGS Companies scheduled to release quarterly reports include Walgreen, Barnes & Noble, the Apollo Group and Carnival (Tuesday); General Mills, Bed Bath & Beyond and Monsanto (Wednesday); and Nike and ConAgra (Thursday). Two foreign-based companies, Kabel Deutschland and Accenture, report Thursday, and BlackBerry on Friday.
MAJOR EVENTS The Supreme Court, in the last week of its session, is due to issue decisions in four major cases, including one on affirmative action in higher education and two related to same-sex marriage.
European finance ministers will meet Monday to discuss Afghanistan, Iran and Syria. On Thursday, European Union leaders will meet, with their discussions focusing on banks and the sovereign debt crisis.
IN THE UNITED STATES On Tuesday, Sprint shareholders vote on Softbank's offer. Also on Tuesday, the House Committee on Financial Services will hold a hearing on the Dodd-Frank Act; the House Energy and Commerce Committee will conduct hearings on Medicare and the challenges for business of the health care law; and the Senate Committee on Finance will hold a hearing on health care quality. On Wednesday, the House Energy and Commerce Committee will conduct a hearing on wireless carriers and government, India's industrial policy and Medicare Part B. Also on Wednesday, HD Supply Holdings prices its initial public offering, and the Aspen Ideas Festival and the Microsoft Build developer conference begin. On Thursday, the International Trade Commission will rule on a patent infringement case filed by InterDigital against Nokia, Huawei and ZTE.
OVERSEAS On Monday, Suntory, a Japanese brewing and distilling company, prices its initial public offering and Elvira Nabiullina takes over as the head of Russia's central bank, the first woman to head a Group of 8 central bank. On Tuesday, the Bank of England governor, Mervyn King, presents the results of a planning meeting of the Financial Stability Board.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (91%); HOME PRICES (91%); CALENDARS (91%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (91%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); NEW ORDERS (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); MEDICARE (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (88%); TALKS & MEETINGS (86%); CONSUMPTION (79%); EURO ZONE (79%); DURABLE GOODS (79%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (79%); NEW HOME SALES (79%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (79%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (79%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (79%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (79%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); TRADE REGULATORY ACTIONS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); US DODD FRANK ACT (75%); EUROPEAN UNION (74%); MONETARY UNIONS (74%); DEBT CRISIS (74%); EXTERNAL DEBT (74%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (70%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (68%); AUTOMAKERS (68%); HEALTH CARE LAW (67%); SUPREME COURTS (65%); PATENT INFRINGEMENT (65%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (65%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (65%); PATENT LAW (65%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (63%); RETAIL SALES (57%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (52%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (50%); MARRIAGE (50%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EDUCATION (50%); PATENTS (50%); GAYS & LESBIANS (50%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO (58%); BANK OF ENGLAND (57%); APOLLO GROUP INC (55%); RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (55%); KABEL DEUTSCHLAND GMBH (55%); GENERAL MILLS INC (55%); ACCENTURE PLC (55%); MONSANTO CO (55%); BED BATH & BEYOND INC (55%); MICROSOFT CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%)

TICKER: APOL (NASDAQ) (55%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (55%); BB (TSX) (55%); GIS (NYSE) (55%); ACN (NYSE) (55%); MON (NYSE) (55%); BBBY (NASDAQ) (55%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (58%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (58%); NAICS611310 COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (55%); SIC8221 COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES, & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (55%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (55%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (55%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311824 DRY PASTA, DOUGH & FLOUR MIXES MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED FLOUR (55%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (55%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (55%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (55%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (55%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (55%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (55%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (55%); NAICS442299 ALL OTHER HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (55%); NAICS442110 FURNITURE STORES (55%); NAICS423210 FURNITURE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (92%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); INDIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); GERMANY (79%); SYRIA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (73%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (68%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2013



765 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1273 words

HEADLINE: Central Banks Criticize Europe for Political Gridlock on Economy

BYLINE: By JACK EWING and JAMES KANTER. 
Jack Ewing reported from Frankfurt and James Kanter from Luxembourg. Mark Scott contributed reporting from London.

 BODY:
FRANKFURT -- FOR European officials, it may have been an especially untimely -- and embarrassing -- example of political gridlock.
Their failure early Saturday to agree on a crucial pillar of the euro zone's new banking architecture, despite 18 hours of haggling, occurred just as the world's central bankers were about to criticize politicians for exactly that kind of dithering.
The Bank for International Settlements, a group representing central banks including the Federal Reserve and the European Central Bank, warned political leaders on Sunday that they should not expect central banks' cheap-money policy to hold the global economy together forever. The organization, based in Basel, Switzerland, said in its annual report that politicians should do their share of ''the hard but essential work of adjustment.''
''Returning to stability and prosperity is a shared responsibility,'' Jaime Caruana, the general manager of the organization, said Sunday in Basel, according to a text of his remarks. ''Monetary policy has done its part.'' 
The report was published a day after a political leaders' meeting in Luxembourg had provided a vivid example of what the central bankers were complaining about. Despite debating well into the early morning on Saturday, European Union finance ministers could not agree on new rules to reduce the chances of taxpayers bearing the burden if commercial banks collapsed.
''We ran out of time,'' Michael Noonan, the Irish finance minister, told reporters as he left the meeting at about 4 a.m. ''There are still core issues outstanding, so we'll need a full meeting next week, and there's no guarantee it will reach conclusion.''
The message from the group in Basel was that central banks cannot enable such inaction indefinitely. ''The balance between costs and benefits is deteriorating,'' said Stephen Cecchetti, head of the monetary and economic department of the Bank for International Settlements, referring to central bank policies that have flooded the world with cheap money since the financial crisis began in 2008.
There are already clear signs of central bank retrenchment. The Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, indicated last week that the American central bank was likely to wind down the purchases of bonds it has used to push down market interest rates. The European Central Bank seems to be running out of ways to stimulate the euro zone, and there is doubt about whether the Bank of Japan can maintain an ambitious policy to flood the economy with money and achieve 2 percent inflation.
As long ago as last summer, Mario Draghi, the European bank president, was publicly lamenting the limits of the central bank's ability to address the broader problems of the European economy and calling upon political leaders to pursue structural solutions.
Jörg Asmussen, a member of the policy-making executive board of the central bank, reiterated that point in a speech on Sunday in Kiel, Germany. ''The global reform agenda has lost momentum, as the sense of urgency imposed by the crisis has vanished,'' he said.
But there did not seem to be any awareness of the limits of central bank forbearance among the 17 finance ministers in Luxembourg. The ministers pulled an all-nighter to complete their assignment -- in this case, to establish a system to ensure that taxpayers never again have to pay so much for the mistakes of bankers.
The ministers have scheduled another meeting for Wednesday, a day before the leaders of the European Union's 27 member states gather for a summit meeting in Brussels, their last scheduled meeting before the summer hiatus. The leaders have been expected to endorse the finance ministers' decision -- if there is one.
The 18-hour marathon was aimed at breaking the so-called doom loop, in which struggling governments go deeper into debt to save their banking systems, only to face sky-high borrowing costs. That vicious circle was largely the reason that Ireland and Cyprus required international bailouts, while Spain has struggled to avoid being sucked into a similar vortex.
But since agreeing in principle last year to centralize bank supervision in the euro zone and create a system to wind down terminally ill banks, the finance ministers have been snagged on various issues, including how to share the cost.
The ministers initially agreed in Luxembourg on Thursday night to let the euro zone's emergency fund -- the European Stability Mechanism -- pump money directly into failing banks, on a case-by-case basis in the latter part of 2014. But then, on Friday, the talks broke down on technical issues, such as whether countries would have the discretion to protect some classes of bank creditors in a crisis.
The failure to reach a deal could further unsettle investors who were already anxious about the lingering recession in the euro zone, turbulence on global markets, renewed political instability in Greece and hints that Cypriot leaders are balking at their bailout agreement.
The Bank for International Settlements acts as a financial clearinghouse for most large central banks, including the Fed and the E.C.B., and as a forum for central bankers to discuss policy issues. It uses its annual report to take stock of the global economy.
While the organization has criticized politicians in the past, its verdict this year was unusually harsh, and implicitly aimed at Europe, where the central bank has already cut interest rates to a record 0.5 percent. Mr. Draghi, reiterated last week that the central bank for the euro zone remained ''ready to act.''
The Bank for International Settlements also had some harsh words for commercial bankers, particularly in Europe, saying they had failed to make an honest accounting of bad loans and other problems. It urged bankers to sell off damaged assets and raise fresh capital, so that they are able to resume providing credit to businesses and consumers.
''Continued low interest rates and unconventional policies have made it easy for the private sector to postpone deleveraging, easy for the government to finance deficits, and easy for the authorities to delay needed reforms in the real economy and in the financial system,'' the organization said.
The organization also disputed claims made by some banks that they have become safer because they have increased the size of the capital they hold as a cushion against losses. Much of the improvement in the amount of capital that banks' have reported recently was ''window dressing,'' achieved by manipulating the way that risk is measured, the organization said.
''Uncertainty about asset quality remains a greater concern in Europe,'' the organization said. On average, banks in Britain, France, Germany, Spain and Switzerland are barely profitable, according to its data, while banks in Italy are losing money. It is difficult for commercial banks to raise capital unless they are profitable, which suggested that some will either need government help or go out of business.
The Bank for International Settlements also weighed in on the debate about how quickly countries should cut debt, offering support to a pair of prominent American economists whose work linked excess debt to poor economic performance.
That research, by Kenneth S. Rogoff and Carmen M. Reinhart of Harvard, was used to justify policies that imposed harsh austerity in countries like Greece. But a study published in April by economists at the University of Massachusetts found flaws in the data that had been used to arrive at those conclusions.
The Bank for International Settlements said its own research supported the broad thesis that too much government debt is a brake on growth.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Waiting in line at a government employment office in Madrid, top. A 30-year-old unemployed Frenchwoman, left, pastes posters of herself and other unemployed in the streets of Marseille. Above, Stephen Cecchetti of the Bank for International Settlements, which represents central banks. B.I.S. said politicians need to do their share. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SEBASTIEN BERDA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES
JEAN-PAUL PELISSIER/REUTERS
 PRICE CHAMBERS/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENTRAL BANKS (94%); EURO (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); POLITICS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); BANK FAILURES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); MONETARY POLICY (76%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); LAYOFFS (70%); ANNUAL REPORTS (70%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%); BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENTS (57%); BANK OF JAPAN (51%)

ORGANIZATION: BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENTS (83%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (51%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BASEL, SWITZERLAND (93%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (92%) EUROPE (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); SWITZERLAND (94%); GERMANY (92%); SPAIN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); LUXEMBOURG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2013



766 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA EQUATION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1090 words

HEADLINE: British Invasion Reshuffles U.S. Media

BYLINE: By DAVID CARR. 
E-mail:carr@nytimes.com; Twitter: @carr2n

 BODY:
On Thursday night, the host of ''The Daily Show'' riffed on Paula Deen's liberal use of both butter and racial slurs, chatted about journalism with Tom Brokaw and parodied the gangster code of honor that has been in the news in the Whitey Bulger trial. Along the way, he did a honey-dripped Southern accent and dropped into a Cagney-esque wiseguy voice.
None of that is totally surprising for a talented entertainer raised in Birmingham, except the town that John Oliver grew up in is in England, not Alabama, and he is a big fan of Liverpool Football Club, not the Crimson Tide.
Mr. Oliver is filling in for Jon Stewart, who is directing a film this summer. We could dwell on the oddity of a British comedian replacing the host of a deeply American show, except that everywhere you look in the United States media landscape, you find people from that small island. 
Piers Morgan came from Britain to take over for Larry King, The Wall Street Journal is edited by Gerard Baker, a British newspaper veteran, and the chief executive of The New York Times is Mark Thompson, who spent his career at the BBC. Anna Wintour has edited Vogue for more than two decades and, more recently, Joanna Coles took over Cosmopolitan, which defines a certain version of American womanhood.
NBC News recently looked to the mother country for leadership and found Deborah Turness, the former editor of Britain's ITV News. ABC's entertainment group is headed by Paul Lee, also formerly of the BBC, and Colin Myler, a Fleet Street alum, edits The New York Daily News.
The list goes on, but the point is made: when it comes to choosing someone to steer prominent American media properties, the answer is often delivered in a proper British accent.
The observation about the thicket of British talent has been made elsewhere and is hardly a brand new phenomenon -- it's Tina Brown's and Nick Denton's world, we just surf it. But something is at work here, beyond the joke about a British accent adding 10 I.Q. points.
The easy answer is the triumph of British charm and politeness set against American brashness and confrontation. I actually think it is exactly the opposite. As Geoff Dyer wrote in The Times in 2009, Americans strive, underneath the loutishness, to be liked, while the British care more about being right.
If that's so, then the renewed British invasion on our shores makes sense because media are becoming more competitive and less mannered with each passing day. Apart from the fact that Mr. Oliver is a very funny man, ''The Daily Show'' continues to storm along partly because, like Mr. Stewart, Mr. Oliver suspects everyone and everything and says so aloud.
It's a very British way of thinking. The one question all young reporters on Fleet Street are taught to keep foremost in their mind when interviewing public figures can be best paraphrased as, ''Why is this jerk lying to me?''
The news that flows from that mind-set is often far more interesting than American media, which frequently bow to power even as they seek to hold it accountable. (Mr. Stewart, so rapacious when annotating video clips, often goes soft when confronted by an actual interview.)
Other dynamics are at play as well. The dividing line between the business and editorial side in British journalism has always been thin, and those who rise to the top have a good grasp of numbers. That's a characteristic that is increasingly prized in corporate America. And an endless supply of talent is seeking to leave the crab pot of British news media because they want to work on a larger scale.
Ms. Coles is a former reporter at The Times of London who came to work in the United States for The Guardian before going to New York Magazine. She went on to More magazine, Marie Claire and now runs Cosmopolitan.
I crossed paths with her when we both worked at New York Magazine, where she stuck out for reasons other than her accent. To wit: while the rest of us would nod assent when senior editors spoke, she frequently argued points to the point of impertinence.
''I was taken aside and asked why I was doing that and I said, 'Doing what?' '' she recalled when I spoke to her last week. From her perspective, she was doing what all good journalists do, which is pushing back.
With more than a dozen newspapers that compete for national attention and a publishing model that is based on appealing to readers far more than advertisers, the British news media market is a brutal and competitive crucible; it breeds frankness, excellence and a fair amount of excess. In that context, American journalism's historical values of objectivity and fairness seem quaint.
''We are used to adversarial relationships,'' Ms. Coles said. ''The value of ideas -- articulating them and advocating for them -- is what sets people apart.''
And with point-of-view increasingly included in more contemporary forms of media, the British are ahead of the game.
Ms. Coles also pointed out that in the United States, there are discrete spheres of influence. Los Angeles, New York and Washington all have their domains, while in Britain, there is only London, a place where entertainment, politics and news media all live in the same petri dish.
More so than in America, journalists end up on television and politicians are often drawn from the ranks of news media. As the hacking scandal revealed, it's a very small tree house in which the various elites not only know one another but socialize as well. Newspapers and radio still play a central role in the civic life of Britain, and Parliament is a kind of gladiator pit that can make Congress seem like a Montessori school.
Greg Gutfeld, host of ''Red Eye'' and co-host of ''The Five'' on Fox News, is the rare American who reversed the polarity, having been drafted to edit Maxim in Britain from 2004 to 2006. His newsstand numbers, the only ones that matter there, weren't great, but he learned a few things.
''I benefited from the novelty of being from somewhere else to begin with, but that wears off,'' he said by phone. ''We are mirrors of each other, and while Americans are smarter at a lot of things, in publishing and media, the Brits take what we do and just do it better. They have to or they won't be around for long.''
In a cluttered informational economy, communicating in pithy, seductive ways is a matter of survival. So the demand for British editorial imports will stay high. As anyone who has ever attended a wedding at which Brits and Yanks are trading toasts can tell you, the English know what audiences want and how to deliver it. Cheers, mate.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John Oliver, who is hosting ''The Daily Show'' this summer, is one of many British imports gaining visibility in American media. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NEILSON BARNARD/GETTY IMAGES FOR COMEDY CENTRAL) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOURNALISM (90%); EXECUTIVES (69%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (82%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (82%)

PERSON: JON STEWART (79%); PAULA DEEN (73%); MARK S THOMPSON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND (79%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (79%) ALABAMA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); ENGLAND (77%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2013



767 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1155 words

HEADLINE: This Time, More Will To Overhaul Immigration

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEISMAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Six years ago this month, re-election campaign looming, Senator Mary L. Landrieu of Louisiana joined 15 other Democrats to shoot down an overhaul of the immigration system, which she said encouraged ''illegal behavior'' with ''a generous path to citizenship'' for ''people who have broken the law to enter this country.''
Ms. Landrieu's next campaign is already upon her. Republicans have made her a prime target in their quest to retake the Senate in 2014. But on immigration, her tone has changed markedly, as has what she called her own internal political compass.
''Sometimes it just takes awhile for issues to marinate,'' Ms. Landrieu said, indicating she is a likely ''yes'' on a Senate bill offering a route to citizenship for 11 million people in the country illegally. ''You can kind of feel like the public is ready to do this, and wants to do it.'' 
As the Senate prepares a pivotal vote on Monday to end debate on a border-security amendment that is expected to bring some reluctant Republicans on board, Ms. Landrieu's about-face reflects a new political reality in which conservative Democrats like her are uniting with moderate Republicans to help carry the legislation across the finish line. If the amendment goes forward on Monday with more than the 60 votes needed to avoid a filibuster, the bill is almost certain to pass, probably by Thursday or Friday.
In 2007, a bipartisan, left-right coalition brought down an immigration bill that had the backing of the Senate's most senior leaders, as well as the White House. The qualms from the right over ''amnesty'' for workers here illegally were nearly matched in intensity by fears on the left that new guest-worker programs and millions of newly legal workers would expand unemployment and depress wages.
But advocates of the newest version of a comprehensive immigration overhaul say the large Democratic defections that helped sink the last bill will be minimized this time -- in part because of changes to the legislation and in part because the bill's time has finally come as far as Democrats are concerned.
Officially, at least half a dozen Democrats -- along with the liberal independent Senator Bernard Sanders -- remain undecided, a number that could doom the chances that the immigration bill can get the 60 votes it will need to reach a final vote.
Conservative Democrats like Joe Manchin III of West Virginia; Max Baucus and Jon Tester of Montana; and Mark Pryor of Arkansas have pressed for stronger border security measures to be added to the base bill written by a bipartisan group of eight senators this year, a demand met on Friday in an agreement reached by Senators Bob Corker of Tennessee and John Hoeven of North Dakota, both Republicans. Their amendment would double the border control force at a cost of roughly $30 billion.
Liberals like Mr. Sanders and Senator Tom Harkin, Democrat of Iowa, remain concerned about new visa programs and their effect on American workers and wages. The jobless rate, 7.6 percent, is three percentage points higher than six years ago, and income inequality has widened.
''Bottom line is, unemployment is high, wages are low, and it is absurd to bring hundreds of thousands of low-wage workers into this country,'' Mr. Sanders said.
But pressed on their final votes, most Democrats concede that barring an abrupt shift in the political climate, they will almost certainly fall in line behind their leaders. Negotiators laid the groundwork early by uniting organized labor behind an overhaul that badly divided unions six years ago. Efforts by Republican supporters of the bill to squelch a nativist backlash has redounded to the favor of Democrats in Republican states.
''Clearly the Republican Party, after demagoguing against immigrants, has determined that's not in their political interest anymore,'' said Senator Debbie Stabenow, Democrat of Michigan, who six years ago opposed a bill she called ''amnesty'' and ''Social Security for illegal immigrants.''
And times simply have changed. ''In blue-collar areas, there's less aversion to a pathway to citizenship,'' said Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, an author of the measure. ''And I think over all, Democrats want to vote for a bill. They really do, even if it might be a little tough in their states.''
Some Democrats cautioned there is still time for the bill to fall apart. In 2007, the bipartisan core of negotiators lost control of the bill on the Senate floor, and the bill collapsed under the weight of contradictory amendments that left even advocates baffled.
Byron L. Dorgan, a Democratic former senator from North Dakota, recalled winning passage of an amendment that would have ended a guest-worker program after five years, a move that infuriated many Republican supporters of the bill. But other amendments left him unsure whether his ''sunset'' provision had actually survived, he said, and he ultimately voted to sustain a final filibuster of the bill.
That could happen again, Democrats warn. ''One of the reasons I voted against the 2007 immigration bill was because it turned into an unworkable mess during the amendment process,'' said Mr. Harkin, who worried that the new border security measures to attract Republicans could repel Democrats. ''It feels that we may be suffering a case of déjà vu, where the Senate introduces a bipartisan bill, and then Republicans walk away from a deal they've struck, or they force the bill in an unworkable direction.''
The balance could also tilt the other way, costing votes on the right side of the spectrum. Senator Mazie K. Hirono, Democrat of Hawaii, said she wants an amendment allowing more low-skilled women to immigrate to the United States, a measure that gained support from 12 other female senators last week.
As it stands now, the bill shifts legal immigration policy from an emphasis on family unification to one favoring visa applicants with useful skills. Ms. Hirono says that punishes women who may lack the opportunity to develop such skills in their native countries.
Mr. Sanders wants changes to a visa program that now allows young foreign workers temporarily -- ostensibly in ''cultural exchanges'' -- to work as waiters, landscapers and camp counselors. That is work he says young Americans should be doing.
Senator John D. Rockefeller IV, Democrat of West Virginia and another ''no'' vote in 2007, is guarding against any move to deny access to health care to pregnant women and children who enter the country legally. Senator Mark Begich, Democrat of Alaska, is adamant about a guest-worker provision for his state's fish-processing industry.
But for now, it is not clear those Democrats will desert the bill if their demands are not met. Democratic leadership aides are betting not. One senior aide predicted in the end, Senate leaders might not lose a single Democrat.
And he could be right.
As Ms. Hirono put it: ''I'm not proposing to blow up this bill.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); FILIBUSTER (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); BORDER CONTROL (77%); FOREIGN LABOR (77%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (77%); IMMIGRATION LAW (77%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%)

PERSON: MARY LANDRIEU (90%); MAX BAUCUS (58%); BOB CORKER (58%); MARK PRYOR (58%); JON TESTER (58%); JOE MANCHIN (58%); BERNIE SANDERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2013



768 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: Critics Say Chicago Shouldn't Aid DePaul While Shutting Down Schools

BYLINE: By BEN STRAUSS

 BODY:
CHICAGO -- Since 1980, the basketball team at DePaul University, the largest Roman Catholic college in the United States, has played its home games in the suburb of Rosemont, Ill., at a nondescript and, lately, mostly empty arena.
For several years, DePaul, which is in the leafy Lincoln Park neighborhood on the North Side and a member of the Big East, has declared its interest in moving back to the city to try to recapture its glory days, when the team was a national powerhouse in the 1970s and '80s.
In May, Mayor Rahm Emanuel and the university announced a proposal for a 10,000 seat, $173 million arena near McCormick Place, a convention center along the lakefront south of downtown. DePaul and the quasi-government agency that runs McCormick Place would chip in $70 million each for the publicly owned venture. The city's tab would be $33 million, and that has created a bit of a stir. 
The unveiling of the plan, which came six days before the Board of Education voted to close 50 public schools because of a $1 billion deficit and underutilization issues, has troubled some.
''This project could not be worse for human priorities,'' said Bob Fioretti, the alderman of the ward that would house the arena. ''We can't afford neighborhood schools, but we can bankroll an unnecessary basketball arena for a private university?''
Since the deal was announced and an accompanying bill was passed by the Illinois Senate and House, a report from Crain's Chicago Business detailed DePaul basketball's attendance woes. Estimates that the new arena would be a moneymaker sooner rather than later were pegged to DePaul's announced crowds of about 8,000 a game, but the actual numbers were closer to 2,600, according to the report. (DePaul is 7-83 in conference play over the last five years.)
''School closings were a real horror for people,'' said Karen Lewis, the president of the Chicago Teachers Union, who noted that most of them were on the South and West Sides. ''And here is another project for the central business district. There are other parts of town, and we don't have any plans for them.''
The city counters that calling the project only an investment in a basketball arena is shortsighted and incomplete. DePaul represents one piece of a $1.1 billion investment to boost tourism, a plan that includes adding amenities to McCormick Place, which has lost convention business to cities like Orlando and Las Vegas, and sprucing up Navy Pier, the state's No. 1 tourist attraction, which is just north of downtown.
The arena is part of a goal to revitalize the South Loop neighborhood, and the project includes two hotels, new restaurants and areas for entertainment, and potentially a casino.
The arena would be an events center for concerts and conventions when DePaul is not playing, and the university has agreed to pay rent at $25,000 a game for men's home dates and $7,500 for women's games.
DePaul's $70 million investment was needed, Tom Alexander, a city spokesman, said, because it would ensure that construction at Navy Pier and McCormick Place could proceed in tandem. ''This is really a facility the entire city can use,'' he said. ''DePaul is helping facilitate it.''
Then there are the 10,000 construction and 3,800 permanent jobs that it would create, by the city's math. The unemployment rate in the Chicago metro area is more than 9 percent.
''I would be safe to assume any city in the country would love to have these jobs and these types of announcements,'' said Jorge Ramirez, the president of the Chicago Federation of Labor.
He added, ''Tax dollars that come in from convention and tourism can be spent anywhere in the city, and should be.''
The city declined to address the timing of the announcement but said in a statement that its ''challenges are equal in urgency and priority.''
Still, the public financing remains a sticking point for critics. The teachers union says that the $33 million promised by the city, which comes from a complex method called tax increment financing, might otherwise be spent on education and other city functions (the figure reaches $55 million when the next-door hotel is included). Alexander called that charge ''utterly wrong.''
In addition to the round of school closings, school budgets are expected to be cut next year, and that, too, puzzles some observers. ''We're told there's no money, and suddenly there's money for this,'' said Allen Sanderson, an economics professor at the University of Chicago. ''It's a mixed message.''
Sanderson also alluded to the long-rumored casino as the elephant in the room. ''If that's the ultimate plan, I'd like to know about it,'' he said.
The city is acquiring the land for the arena and hotel. Once a deal is reached, the City Council will vote whether to approve it.
''I wish the best for DePaul,'' Fioretti said. ''I would love to see them go back to having a good basketball team. But I don't understand this, and neither do my constituents.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING: A rendering of the proposed basketball arena for DePaul. Chicago has promised to pay $33 million of the $173 million cost. (DRAWING BY DEPAUL UNIVERSITY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (78%); SUBURBS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); CLOSINGS (77%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (77%); MAYORS (75%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (74%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (73%); RELIGION (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (72%); LEGISLATION (70%); TOURISM (66%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (63%); RESTAURANTS (60%); HOTELS & MOTELS (60%); TEACHER UNIONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: DEPAUL UNIVERSITY (94%)

PERSON: RAHM EMANUEL (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2013



769 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: Kerry Prods India to Cut Greenhouse Gas Emissions

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON and JOHN M. BRODER; Michael R. Gordon reported from New Delhi, and John M. Broder from Washington.

 BODY:
NEW DELHI -- Secretary of State John Kerry urged India on Sunday to begin to address climate change by reducing emissions of greenhouse gases even as it attempts to bring electricity to tens of millions of its citizens now living without it.
''I do understand and fully sympathize with the notion that India's paramount commitment to development and eradicating poverty is essential,'' Mr. Kerry said in a speech at the start of a two-day visit. ''But we have to recognize that a collective failure to meet our collective climate challenge would inhibit all countries' dreams of growth and development.'' 
In an effort to prod the Indians to act, Mr. Kerry warned that climate change could cause India to endure excessive heat waves, prolonged droughts, intense flooding and shortages of food and water.
''The worst consequences of the climate crisis will confront people who are the least able to be able to cope with them,'' he said.
Mr. Kerry has long been active on the issue of climate change. His speech was part of a broader push by the Obama administration that includes a presidential address, scheduled for Tuesday, on steps the White House plans to take domestically, including establishing the first limits on carbon emissions from new and existing power plants.
President Obama is also expected to pledge to lead a global effort to reduce climate-altering emissions and help both the poorest nations and newly industrializing countries like India adapt to the inevitable costs of a warming planet.
India is one of the fastest-growing sources of greenhouse gases in the world, and it has consistently rejected efforts by developed countries to slow down its energy consumption, fearing that it would retard its economic growth and hamper its drive to reduce poverty. India now ranks third in the world in production of carbon dioxide, the most prevalent heat-trapping gas, behind China and the United States.
When Mr. Obama and Xi Jinping, China's president, met in California two weeks ago, they agreed to take steps to cut back on global production and use of hydrofluorocarbons, or HFCs, a component in coolants in refrigerators and air-conditioners.
Experts said at the time that such an effort would not be successful without the participation of India, where the use of refrigeration and air-conditioning is growing rapidly.
Mr. Kerry, on his first trip to India as secretary of state, was joined here by Ernest Moniz, the secretary of energy, and other senior American officials.
In his speech, Mr. Kerry sought to make the case that protecting the environment could be consistent with India's economic development by improving energy efficiency and spurring investment in green technology. The United States, he said, would announce an effort to improve the energy efficiency of India's air-conditioners.
But Mr. Kerry appeared to stop short of committing India to some sort of negotiated international regime to phase out HFCs, though he alluded to the possibility.
''We can also work together to globally phase down hydrofluorocarbons,'' he said, ''and eliminate the equivalent of roughly two years' worth of current global emissions by the year 2050.''
Mr. Kerry also pleaded with India to commit to working constructively on a global treaty to be negotiated under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. India has shown some reluctance to fully engage in the negotiations, out of fear that a global regime would impose the greatest cost on countries least able to afford them. The 190-plus signatories to the United Nations climate convention have agreed to complete a new treaty with binding legal force by the end of 2015.
Mr. Kerry tried to reassure India that any such pact would take its needs into account. ''I am convinced that we can move toward a global agreement that puts us on track to avert the most dangerous climate change, that is sensitive to and respectful of the diversity of national circumstances and capabilities, and that is fair, pragmatic and can actually evolve with changing circumstances,'' he said.
The visit comes at a time of some tension on trade in relations between the United States and India.
In a letter to Mr. Kerry this month, the leading Democrat and Republican on the Senate Finance Committee asserted that the Indian government and courts had violated intellectual property rights by allowing India's pharmaceutical industry to make a generic copy of a patented drug.
The letter, signed by the committee's chairman, Max Baucus of Montana, a Democrat, and Orrin G. Hatch of Utah, a Republican, also asserted that India was establishing barriers to American investment. Mr. Kerry urged the completion of an investment treaty.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John Kerry on his first visit to India as the secretary of state. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SAJJAD HUSSAIN/A.F.P. -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (93%); GREENHOUSE GASES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); DROUGHT (78%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (76%); POWER PLANTS (73%); GLOBAL WARMING (73%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (73%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (72%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (72%); CONSUMPTION (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (68%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); XI JINPING (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2013



770 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1263 words

HEADLINE: Employers Test Plans That Cap Health Costs

BYLINE: By REED ABELSON

 BODY:
Hoping to cut medical costs, employers are experimenting with a new way to pay for health care, telling workers that their company health plan will pay only a fixed amount for a given test or procedure, like a CT scan or knee replacement. Employees who choose a doctor or hospital that charges more are responsible for paying the additional amount themselves.
Although it is in the early stages, the strategy is gaining in popularity and there is some evidence that it has persuaded expensive hospitals to lower their prices.
In California, a large plan for public employees has been especially aggressive in using the tactic, and the results are being watched closely by employers and hospital systems elsewhere. 
Under the program, some employees are being given the choice of going to one of 54 hospitals, including well-known medical centers like Cedars-Sinai and Stanford University Hospital, that have agreed to charge no more than $30,000 for a hip or knee replacement. Prices for the operation normally vary widely in the state, with hospitals billing from $15,000 to $110,000 for the same operation, a spread that is typical for much of the nation.
''It's a symptom of the completely irrational pricing structure hospitals have,'' said Ann Boynton, a benefits executive for the California Public Employees' Retirement System, known as Calpers, which worked with the insurer Anthem Blue Cross, a unit of WellPoint, to introduce the program.
Overall costs for operations under the program fell 19 percent in 2011, the program's first year, with the average amount it paid hospitals for a joint replacement falling to $28,695, from $35,408, according to an analysis by WellPoint's researchers that was released Sunday at a health policy conference.
The study found no impact on quality of care.
''It's a race to value,'' said Dr. Samuel R. Nussbaum, the chief medical officer for WellPoint. One of the nation's largest health insurers, WellPoint operates Blue Cross plans in 14 states.
The hospitals might have been willing to drop their prices because Calpers has such clout, said James C. Robinson, a health economist at the University of California, Berkeley, who also analyzed the results.
The California plan, which is one of the nation's largest buyers of health care benefits, is ''viewed as a bellwether of what other large employers will do,'' Mr. Robinson said. He and colleagues calculated the savings from the program for the first two years at $5.5 million.
While relatively few companies fully embrace the strategy now, more employers are experimenting with it. Using a technique called ''reference pricing,'' the employer sets a cap, based on what can be an average price for the service or a price that allows employees to select from a wide group of hospitals or doctors but still excludes the very high-priced providers. The idea is to exert pressure on prices for certain procedures without limiting the individual's choice of hospital or doctor for all kinds of care.
''There will be acute interest and focus on prices and price variation,'' said Ron Fontanetta, a benefits consultant at Towers Watson, who said that programs like this represented one approach. About 15 percent of large employers say they expect to try the technique next year, compared with just 5 percent this year, according to a 2013 survey by the firm.
''This seems something that's a no-brainer,'' said Steve Wojcik, a vice president for public policy at the National Business Group on Health, which represents employers offering health benefits to their workers. ''Why pay more if you can get it for less?''
Last year, WellPoint worked with the Kroger Company, a large grocery chain, to start a similar program in which payments for certain M.R.I.'s and CT scans were capped at around $800, and employees were given a list of places that would charge that amount or less.
Kroger picked services that had a significant variation in price but did not vary in quality from provider to provider, according to Theresa Monti, a benefits executive at Kroger. The company also chose to set the price the plan would pay at a point where employees would still have a wide range of choices, she said.
Historically, information about how much a doctor or hospital will charge before a patient gets a test and treatment has been difficult -- if not impossible -- to obtain, and the federal government's recent decision to publish Medicare data on hospital charges has focused attention on the wide variation that exists throughout the country.
Employers that offer health plans have been pushing hard to get information on pricing and quality so their workers can make more informed choices about providers. WellPoint, for example, is also working closely with an outside company, Cast-light Health, which offers companies Web-based tools that help employees compare hospitals and doctors.
One of the goals is to determine when the price of a medical service bears no resemblance to the quality care. Paying more money without getting better care in return has been a longstanding source of frustration for employers.
Under the federal health care law, many employers are looking for ways to reduce their own costs without shifting them onto their workers, said Darren Rodgers, a senior executive at the Health Care Service Corporation, which operates nonprofit Blue Cross plans in four states.
''We're having a dialogue about it right now,'' Mr. Rodgers said. Two employers it works with have programs that cap payments for tests, like colonoscopies or CT scans, and a handful of other companies will introduce a similar program next year.
Benefits experts say these programs are only appropriate for medical services with little urgency and where the quality of care does not vary significantly. But it is not always clear that even a seemingly mundane procedure like an M.R.I. may not vary in quality from facility to facility, depending on the skill of the physician to interpret the images, said Dr. Robert Berenson, a health policy expert at the Urban Institute. ''Is an M.R.I. just an M.R.I. and just a commodity?'' he asked.
While Dr. Berenson described these programs as promising in forcing a more explicit discussion about the value of their care from hospitals and doctors, he said the current ways of determining quality were inadequate. ''There are huge domains in quality that we don't measure at all,'' he said.
In the California program, the hospitals were not selected simply on price but on other measures, like how many surgeries they performed and their outcomes, Ms. Boynton said. ''It's not just about reducing cost at the expense of health and clinical outcomes of members,'' she said.
About 350,000 people are covered by the California program. While more members chose to get operations from facilities participating in the program, members who went outside were able to get the procedures done for less. On average, members had about the same out-of-pocket costs as they did before the program.
At the least, the California experiment may suggest that the irrationality of pricing may be coming to an end. ''Price is the leading driver of health care cost growth,'' said Suzanne Delbanco, the executive director for Catalyst for Payment Reform, a group that aims to encourage employers and health plans to change the way they pay for care.
The California plan has made it clear to the hospitals that it was both aware of the unexplained variation in prices and that it would no longer simply pay whatever a hospital charged the insurer, she said. ''That's a very powerful signal,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, a knee replacement operation at Rush University Medical Center in Chicago. At left, a hip replacement surgery at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. A California program to limit what hospitals are paid is gaining interest. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SALLY RYAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 C.J. GUNTHER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSPITALS (90%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); PROSTHETICS & ORTHOTICS (89%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); ORTHOPEDICS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); CIVIL SERVICES (75%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (73%); PRICE CUTTING (70%); INSURANCE (65%); EXECUTIVES (65%)

COMPANY: WELLPOINT INC (82%); ANTHEM BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD (82%)

ORGANIZATION: CALIFORNIA PUBLIC EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM (72%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (56%)

TICKER: WLP (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (82%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (82%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (82%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2013



771 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1036 words

HEADLINE: China Said to Have Made Call to Let Leaker Depart

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ and KEITH BRADSHER; Jane Perlez reported from Beijing, and Keith Bradsher from Hong Kong.

 BODY:
BEIJING -- The Chinese government made the final decision to allow Edward J. Snowden, the former National Security Agency contractor, to leave Hong Kong on Sunday, a move that Beijing believed resolved a tough diplomatic problem even as it reaped a publicity windfall from Mr. Snowden's disclosures, according to people familiar with the situation.
Hong Kong authorities have insisted that their judicial process remained independent of China, but these observers -- who like many in this article spoke on the condition of anonymity to talk freely about confidential discussions -- said that matters of foreign policy are the domain of the Chinese government, and Beijing exercised that authority in allowing Mr. Snowden to go. 
From China's point of view, analysts said, the departure of Mr. Snowden solved two concerns: how to prevent Beijing's relationship with the United States from being ensnared in a long legal wrangle in Hong Kong over Mr. Snowden, and how to deal with a Chinese public that widely regards the American computer expert as a hero.
''Behind the door there was definitely some coordination between Hong Kong and Beijing,'' said Jin Canrong, professor of international relations at Renmin University in Beijing.
Beijing's chief concern was the stability of the relationship with the United States, which the Chinese believed had been placed on a surer footing during the meeting between President Xi Jinping and President Obama at the Sunnylands estate in California this month, said Mr. Jin and a person knowledgeable about the Hong Kong government's handling of Mr. Snowden.
The Chinese government was pleased that Mr. Snowden disclosed the extent of American surveillance of Internet and telephone conversations around the world, giving the Chinese people a chance to talk about what they describe as American hypocrisy regarding surveillance practices, said Mr. Jin and the person familiar with the consultations between Hong Kong and China.
But in the longer term, China's overall relationship with the United States, which spans global economic, military and security issues, was more important than the feelings of the public in China and Hong Kong, who felt that the contractor should be protected from the reach of the United States, analysts said.
Mainland Chinese officials ''will be relieved he's gone -- the popular sentiment in Hong Kong and China is to protect him because he revealed United States surveillance here, but the governments don't want trouble in the relationship,'' said the person familiar with the consultations between Beijing and Hong Kong.
Mr. Snowden went public in Hong Kong on June 9, the day after the meeting between Mr. Obama and Mr. Xi ended, as the source of a series of disclosures in the British newspaper The Guardian and The Washington Post about classified national security programs.
The stream of information about the extent of American worldwide eavesdropping shifted the focus in the public sniping between the Obama administration and China over cybersecurity that had been unfolding for months.
In a series of speeches, senior officials in the Obama administration, including the national security adviser, Tom Donilon, and the defense secretary, Chuck Hagel, had taken the offensive against China, publicly accusing it of cyberespionage against American businesses. Mr. Donilon said in a speech in March that China was responsible for theft of confidential business information and proprietary technologies through digital intrusions on an ''unprecedented scale.''
In response to those accusations, China said that it was the victim of cyberattacks from the United States.
Mr. Snowden's disclosures appeared to confirm the Chinese government's argument, and put the United States on the defensive. The highly classified documents that Mr. Snowden gave to the two newspapers showed that the N.S.A. compiled logs of virtually all telephone calls in the United States and collected the e-mail of foreigners from American Internet companies.
Mr. Snowden has denied giving China classified documents and said he had spoken only to journalists. But his public statements, directly and to reporters, have contained intelligence information of great interest to China.
Two Western intelligence experts, who worked for major government spy agencies, said they believed that the Chinese government had managed to drain the contents of the four laptops that Mr. Snowden said he brought to Hong Kong, and that he said were with him during his stay at a Hong Kong hotel.
If that were the case, they said, China would no longer need or want to have Mr. Snowden remain in Hong Kong.
The disclosures by Mr. Snowden set off a surge of commentary against American ''double faced'' and ''arrogant'' behavior by many users of China's version of Twitter.
In some instances, the Chinese news media made snide references to what it called the gap between how the United States portrayed itself, and what the United States practiced. ''Washington must be grinding its teeth because Snowden's revelations have almost overturned the image of the U.S. as the defender of a free Internet,'' Global Times, which often reflects the official point of view, wrote in an editorial.
The precise details of how the Chinese government dealt with Hong Kong authorities were not immediately known.
But Beijing appears to have decided that weeks of focus on Mr. Snowden in Hong Kong and his disclosures about the American government's global surveillance practices were enough, and that he could turn into a liability, said a second person familiar with the handling of Mr. Snowden. ''Beijing has gotten the most they can out of the Snowden situation,'' that person said.
A senior diplomat familiar with the way the Chinese government works said just before the departure of Mr. Snowden became public that he believed that Beijing would do all it could to keep Mr. Snowden out of American hands. The Chinese public would be outraged if the contractor was extradited, put on trial and jailed, he said. At the same time, the Obama administration would put relentless pressure on Beijing to get Mr. Snowden, he said.
''I see the sun of Sunnylands disappearing into the snow of Snowden,'' the diplomat said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The public perception in China of Edward J. Snowden, the former National Security Agency contractor, as a hero further encouraged the government to allow him to leave the country. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BOBBY YIP/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (91%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (50%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (50%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (50%)

PERSON: XI JINPING (78%); BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (91%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CHINA (99%); HONG KONG (98%); UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2013



772 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1361 words

HEADLINE: In Scottish Schools, a Focus on More Than Just Tests

BYLINE: By D. D. GUTTENPLAN

 BODY:
EAST DUNBARTONSHIRE, Scotland -- In this leafy subdivision outside Glasgow, the hallways of Bishopbriggs Academy were buzzing from a production of the musical ''Bugsy Malone'' that took place the night before.
Inside Kathryn Macleod's English class, a group of 12-year-olds was watching a clip from the film version of Louis Sachar's novel ''Holes,'' paying close attention to the actress Patricia Arquette. After making notes on Ms. Arquette's character and comparing her performance with the novel, the students each composed a director's note for the actress. Down the hall, Lauren Neilson's science students were boiling red cabbage over Bunsen burners as part of a lesson about measuring acidity.
In the same week that Britain's education minister, Michael Gove, announced yet another measure to make the national exams taken by high school students in England more rigorous, their counterparts in Scotland were taking a curriculum in which national exams for 16-year-olds had been abolished. 
In recent years, schools in Britain, like those in the United States, have struggled under an increasing burden of testing and assessment designed to improve quality and to enforce some version of national standards. Critics of such changes have pointed to the success of Finland, which despite imposing many fewer tests on its students has consistently performed well in exams of the Program for International Student Assessment, organized by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, the association of free market democracies.
Perhaps English parents and policy makers would do better to turn their attention slightly less far north. Education in Scotland has long been run differently from the rest of Britain. While schools in England encouraged students to specialize, Scottish schools traditionally aimed for a greater breadth of knowledge.
Scottish secondary education lasts six years, ending with a single set of national exams known as Highers and administered by a single exam board; English students take G.C.S.E.'s -- the exams that Mr. Gove keeps trying to change -- at 16 and then A-levels before going to a university, with schools having a choice of three exam boards for each subject. Scottish university degree programs last four years, compared with three years in England and Wales.
In England, the current government and its predecessor put increasing emphasis on using standardized testing to determine which schools were underperforming. Based on these measures, they closed some schools, put others on ''special measures'' and turned yet others into ''academies'' answerable to the Education Ministry rather than the local authorities.
Scotland is taking another road.
''When the Scottish Parliament came into being in 1999, we realized our schools were not performing as well as they should,'' the Scottish education minister, Michael Russell, said in an interview. ''Our students were overexamined, our schools were overinspected and the curriculum was too bitty, too divided up and too shallow.''
In 2005, Scotland introduced the Curriculum for Excellence. While education in England became increasingly prescriptive -- with public debate on precisely what students were expected to know and whether, for example, there ought to be a greater focus on kings and queens, or the history of the British empire -- the Scottish decided to pay more attention to how subjects were taught.
''It felt like you were always lurching from one set of exams to the next,'' said Bill Maxwell, the chief executive of Education Scotland, the government agency charged with carrying out the curriculum. ''So we decided it would be better to spend less time jumping through hoops, making the syllabus more flexible and more interdisciplinary.''
Starting with kindergarten, the curriculum has progressed through the system one year at a time, and has just reached Stage 4, for the 16-year-olds who, until this year , would have taken Standard Grade exams. Students still take exams in as many as 15 subjects but those are pass/fail and set by their teachers.
The curriculum is designed to encourage students to make connections between subjects; the emphasis is on debate and discussion rather than memorization.
Gordon Moulsdale, head teacher at Bishopbriggs, is adamant that the changes have meant no loss of rigor. ''I don't believe for a minute that Curriculum for Excellence is touchy-feely or that we are watering down standards,'' he said.
In February the school -- in a neighborhood Mr. Moulsdale described as ''aspirational but within two or three miles of some of the poorest areas in Europe,'' or about three to five kilometers -- received four ''excellent'' ratings from Scottish inspectors.
''Some people believe that increasing assessment increases standards, but we've moved away from that,'' said Barry Smedley, the school's deputy head. ''It used to be that only students who did well on exams were thought of as the smart ones. But we've learned that there are different kinds of smart, different kinds of intelligence.''
The changes mean a slightly longer school week, and more time for music, drama, sports and community service: precisely the areas that have been squeezed in England by the need to prepare students for so many exams.
Beth Livingstone, a senior who plans to study English and history at the University of Strathclyde, in Glasgow, said students appreciated having so many choices. ''In English, we are reading Dickens,'' she said. ''But we also had time for trips.''
The curriculum does demand more from teachers.
''You can't just take an old textbook, open it, and work through to the end,'' Ms. Macleod said. ''Teachers and pupils are both expected to be more creative.''
Using the Scottish expression for ''outside,'' Mr. Moulsdale said, ''A lot of the learning here happens outwith the classroom.'' Students are encouraged to write, but also to make things, give oral presentations and staging performances. ''We're trying to develop higher-order thinking skills, not just to regurgitate facts,'' Mr. Moulsdale said.
With her students ''constantly actively thinking,'' Ms. Macleod said she found teaching the curriculum ''more enjoyable.''
Larry Flanagan, the general secretary of the Educational Institute of Scotland, the largest Scottish teachers' union, said that ''we believe the new curriculum offers much for Scotland's pupils.'' But while the union welcomes ''freeing teachers to deliver a learning experience that was more engaging and relevant for pupils,'' he added, there is also ''significant concern about the level of resources that have been put in place.''
Mr. Flanagan said union members had asked the government to delay applying the secondary school portion of the curriculum to give teachers and students more time to prepare for the new Highers, scheduled to be introduced next year. But he added that there was ''no appetite'' for ''the more selective, competitive and test-driven approach being promoted by Mr. Gove in England.''
Mr. Gove, who was born and educated in Scotland, did not respond to requests for comment.
In Ms. Neilsen's class, the cabbage had been boiled and students were putting drops of purple liquid in plastic trays.
''I want you to use words from Bloom's Taxonomy to define the success criteria for this experiment,'' she said, pointing to a chart showing a pyramid that rose from ''remembering'' and ''understanding'' to ''analyzing, evaluating and creating.''
One boy proposed, ''We want to analyze how red cabbage can be used as an indicator.''
Mr. Smedley, the Bishopbriggs deputy head, said: ''The idea is to make our objectives explicit. Students need to know not just what we want them to do, but why we are asking them to do it.''
Will Scotland's experiment succeed? Mr. Russell, the education minister, contends that it already has.
''Before, we were operating under a 19th-century definition of education, which was about restricting access and passing exams,'' he said. ''There was a tendency to define the success of a system by how many people failed the tests. In the 21st century, I think that's ridiculous, and we've moved beyond that kind of thinking here in Scotland.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (89%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (89%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (89%); ACADEMIC TESTING (89%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (89%); EDUCATIONAL TESTING SERVICES (88%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); CURRICULA (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (75%); QUALITY CONTROL (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (71%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GLASGOW, SCOTLAND (73%) SCOTLAND (97%); ENGLAND (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); WALES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2013



773 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Style Desk; FASHION REVIEW; Pg. 

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: In Florence, Color Blooms

BYLINE: By SUZY MENKES

 BODY:
FLORENCE -- Toys for boys are traditionally of the two- or four-wheeled kind. So it was no wonder that motorbikes at artistic angles and steely, streamlined cars driven into display areas formed the backdrop for the Pitti Uomo exhibition last week.
But however smooth and sporty the accoutrements, men's clothing for summer 2014 was a case of ''bring on the decorators.'' A colorful approach came from three angles: vivid shades, patches of pattern and surface interest. And the biggest change over recent years at this men's wear fair is the increasing attention put on men's accessories. 
After decades when a necktie -- or perhaps a scarf or a pair of socks -- was the only place for men to go for vibrant effects, the story now is: follow the women's wardrobe. Shoes and bags are the new fashion playthings.
When Giuseppe Zanotti, famous for red-carpet creations for women, shows men's boots swagged with gilded motifs, sandals with shiny silver uppers and brogues with crystal tongues, you know that something is changing in men's footwear. Loafers in vivid shades and with fancy finishes were ubiquitous for next summer.
Against the odds, in a crimped European economy and Italy's financial gloom, men's fashion -- especially at the high end -- is on a roll.
''We didn't expect such a good performance from Italian buyers because in Italy, consumption has dropped five percent in clothing, shirts, knitwear and ties, to the same level as 2008,'' said Raffaello Napoleone, chief executive of Pitti Immagine, the event's parent organization.
But the executive has found that the weakness in economically troubled European countries like Spain and Greece and the reduction in French customers has been made up by strong markets in Germany, Britain, Russia, Korea and the United States. And accessories are the key to enthusiasm -- and to sales.
Pitti Uomo's global reach has been transformed since its early days as a local Italian trade fair. Significantly, this season's special guests were all international, and even homegrown designers had their eyes beyond Italy. Massimo Giorgetti, creative director at MSGM, said that his colorful tie-dyed sportswear had been inspired by a New York exhibition on the 1990s and by the actor Brandon Walsh on ''Beverly Hills 90210.''
Kolor, the Japanese brand created by the designer Junichi Abe, seemed particularly appropriate to a summer 2014 season of color and decoration. Shown against projected images on a rough stone wall, a quirky inventiveness included simple boyish pants or jackets printed with faded Hawaiian flowers.
The cool factor came in the cut, as the top of pants continued the shirt's pattern, giving a cummerbund effect, or the base of a jacket had a similar treatment. Appropriately, with the heightened focus on accessories, leather sandals sparkled with colorful crystal.
Stella Jean's multicultural origins in Italy and Haiti have produced collections like the one that won the 2011 ''Who is On Next?'' competition. Her forceful collection for next summer, using ethnic patterns from Africa and beyond in a sophisticated way, made a powerful statement that caught the current fashion moment.
The designer's use of traditional wax printing from Java and striping fabric techniques from West Africa were not just smart aesthetically. They also join hands with the Ethical Fashion Initiative, supported by the International Trade Center, a joint agency of the United Nations and the World Trade Organization, in bringing work to African and Haitian women through small fashion enterprises.
The backdrop of old Florentine stone walls and statues is an irresistible draw to designers offered the city's buildings and gardens as their show venues. Damir Doma, a Croatian designer raised in Germany who usually shows in Paris, deliberately played a quiet game of angular cuts and vertical or horizontal stripes.
The reserved women's collection, with fabric lapped into intriguing shapes, mostly of dresses, was mostly in a pale color palette with the occasional richness of purple. Standout pieces had stripes of different widths shading between black and gray.
The special guest nation this season was Turkey -- or ''Seven Gentlemen of Istanbul by Seven Designers from the City on Seven Hills,'' as the display was poetically named.
With all the current news of rebellion and revolution in Istanbul, it was good to see something positive, especially as the designers often found inspiration in Turkish roots, with snatches of history projected on the backdrop of the imaginative installation.
The overriding theme was surface interest, as the country's deep knowledge of textiles was used to trace the clothing culture of the ''Turkish gentleman.'' Occasionally an inspiration, like a digitized version of a heritage fob watch, fused history with modernity.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOTWEAR (90%); MEN'S CLOTHING (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); MEN (90%); TOYS & GAMES (89%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (77%); WOMEN (73%); TRADE SHOWS (72%); CONSUMPTION (65%); EXECUTIVES (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ITALY (93%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (74%); GERMANY (69%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%); GREECE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2013



774 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; LETTER FROM WASHINGTON; Pg. 

LENGTH: 916 words

HEADLINE: 2 Alternatives for Obama's Summer

BYLINE: By ALBERT R. HUNT | BLOOMBERG VIEW

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- There are two widely discussed scenarios that could unfold in Washington this summer.
The first, embraced by the White House and some Democrats, is upbeat: The immigration bill passes the Senate with a big margin, making it almost impossible for House Republicans to resist; more people start signing up for President Barack Obama's health care law, and even though no fiscal grand bargain is in the offing, an improving economy gives the president a stronger hand in dealing with Republicans on extending the debt ceiling and spending bills.
The so-called scandals recede: It becomes clear there was no political interference with the Internal Revenue Service, and the other controversies don't resonate. The Middle East is still a cauldron, but it hasn't gotten worse and the administration's pivot to Asia seems sensible. 
The second sequence of events, foreseen by many Republicans and a few Democrats, is more dire: The once bright hopes for an immigration bill this year slip amid the usual petty partisanship; all other legislation and appointments are stalled, and an ugly fight over the debt limit rattles markets and hampers the economy.
Interest in the health care exchanges remains lackadaisical as insurance premiums increase in anticipation of the law taking effect. An investigation by the Justice Department of the I.R.S. controversy lacks credibility, and the scandal persists. In Syria and Iran, either the United States becomes embroiled in dangerous confrontations or Mr. Obama is seen as a feckless wimp. Republicans are licking their chops about winning control of the Senate next year and increasing their majority in the House, making the final Obama years a nightmare of recrimination, investigations and veto fights.
Mr. Obama, who prides himself on taking the long view and not getting caught up in the passions of the moment, rejects the notion of such make-or-break moments. Only a little more than 10 percent of the second term is complete.
Yet it isn't unusual to establish a framework for success or failure of U.S. presidencies by the end of the first summer of the second term.
Eight years ago, George W. Bush's high post-re-election hopes were dashed by Labor Day after an ill-considered effort to overhaul Social Security, a botched response to Hurricane Katrina and an increasingly discredited war in Iraq.
Two decades earlier, Ronald Reagan, despite the subsequent Iran-Contra debacle, set the benchmark for success: He was guided by Treasury Secretary James A. Baker 3d on the domestic front, and a sweeping tax overhaul measure was on course. In foreign policy, Secretary of State George P. Schultz, working privately with Nancy Reagan, was taking control of a more measured, less bellicose approach.
There are, to be sure, events that could change the dynamics of the final three years: a real scandal, a war or terrorist act, or a national tragedy that rallies the public. Nevertheless, if the bad-case scenario plays out, it's hard to see how the president recovers momentum. Alternatively, if he is able to make progress in enacting two of the most significant domestic achievements in years -- health care and immigration reform -- while presiding over an economy recovering from the worst crisis since the Depression and the ending of two wars, the question might be: Which coin or dollar denomination will eventually bear his likeness? In general, there's not that much Mr. Obama can do this summer to affect the outcome. The administration has been slow in the critical task of enlisting people to sign up for the health exchanges. Ultimately, success will depend on the psychology of healthy young people, whether they see a perceived need for health insurance.
On immigration, success or failure largely rests with inside calculations on Capitol Hill.
There also isn't much in the president's toolbox to improve the economy. Congressional Republicans are interested only in thwarting Mr. Obama. What matters are the Federal Reserve and consumer confidence. The president has much more latitude on foreign affairs, although there is little indication so far of any clear policy.
It may be that on all these issues, he comes out even, doing better in some, less well in others.
It's just as likely that the next three months will be either be Mr. Obama's seminal season or his summer of discontent.
POSTSCRIPT
All devotees of American politics have favorite winning campaigns. The best losing one was that of Gerald R. Ford in 1976. One of its masterminds, Doug Bailey, passed away this month. He and his partner, John D. Deardourff, along with the pollster Robert M. Teeter and the strategist Stuart K. Spencer, miraculously helped the incumbent president erase a huge deficit -- Ford was behind by double digits in late September -- to lose by less than two points to Jimmy Carter. To question Mr. Carter's experience, they were the first to extensively use ''man on the street'' interviews.
Mainly, though, they crafted a rousing, upbeat message for Ford. They created a catchy campaign song, ''I'm Feeling Good About America,'' and campaign rallies would introduce Ford with the University of Michigan fight song. A decade later, Mr. Bailey gave up consulting and started the Political Hotline, an aggregator of political news from around the country and a forerunner of today's popular online venues, like Playbook.
Mr. Bailey was a generous visionary: A close associate in recent years was Gerald Rafshoon, his rival strategist in that 1976 campaign.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); DEBT CEILING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); VETO (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); HEALTH CARE LAW (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (76%); TAX AUTHORITIES (74%); US LABOR DAY (73%); TAX REFORM (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (65%); IRAQ WAR (65%); FOREIGN POLICY (60%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%); TERRORISM (50%); HURRICANE KATRINA (50%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ASIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SYRIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2013



775 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; FROM THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE; Pg. 

LENGTH: 440 words

HEADLINE: 100, 75, 50 Years Ago

 BODY:
1913 Deadly Blast in Cherbourg Fort
President Poincaré's departure from France yesterday on his official visit to England was unfortunately marred by a serious accident at Cherbourg, where, owing to the explosion of some cartridges close to one of the guns used in firing the salute, two artillerymen were killed and seven others wounded. Soon after five o'clock in the afternoon, the Presidential train reached Cherbourg from Paris and the firing of the salute of 101 guns at once began in the forts. It was then that the fatal accident occurred. The fifteenth gun had just been fired, when, as a gunner opened the breech, a burning fuse fell out and dropped among a heap of cartridges placed near the gun. A tremendous explosion followed. All the windows of the buildings in the vicinity were shattered. Two artillerymen close to the cannon were blown to pieces. 
1938 Chamberlain and Lloyd George Clash
LONDON -- In one of the most dramatic scenes in the House of Commons in recent years, Premier Neville Chamberlain, the Prime Minister of peace, and David Lloyd George, the Prime Minister of the World War, crossed swords tonight [June 23] on the momentous questions of whether Great Britain should wage war against General Francisco Franco to halt the repeated attacks on British ships in Spanish government ports, two more ships having been sunk yesterday. The war-time Premier argued that Britain should undertake reprisals against General Franco and risk a war, which it could win easily. The peacetime Premier replied that there was more than General Franco to reckon with and that there was a real risk of plunging Europe, and perhaps the whole world, into a general conflagration which would be disastrous to civilization.
1963 In Bonn, Kennedy Reassures Europe
BONN -- President Kennedy today [June 23] reaffirmed United States pledges to support a unified Atlantic alliance in peace and war. The commitment was given minutes after the President landed at Bonn's Wahn Airport to start a ten-day tour of four European nations. In words of interest in Moscow and Paris, as well as Bonn, the President told the crowd: ''Economically, militarily, politically, our two nations and all the other nations of the alliance are now dependent upon one another. We are allies in the only war we seek -- the war against poverty, hunger and disease in our own countries and around the world. ... The United States is here on this continent to stay so long as our presence is desired and required. Our forces and commitments will remain, for your safety is our safety. Your liberty is our liberty, and any attack on your soil is an attack upon our own.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (78%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); DEATHS (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%)

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%) NORMANDY, FRANCE (90%) EUROPE (93%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ENGLAND (90%); SPAIN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (75%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2013



776 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: Et Tu, Bernanke?

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
For the most part, Ben Bernanke and his colleagues at the Federal Reserve have been good guys in these troubled economic times. They have tried to boost the economy even as most of Washington seemingly either forgot about the jobless, or decided that the best way to cure unemployment was to intensify the suffering of the unemployed. You can argue -- and I would -- that the Fed's activism, while welcome, isn't enough, and that it should be doing even more. But at least it didn't lose sight of what's really important.
Until now. 
Lately, Fed officials have been issuing increasingly strong hints that rather than doing more, they want to do less, that they are eager to start ''tapering,'' returning to normal monetary policy. The impression that the Fed is tired of trying so hard got even stronger last week, after a news conference in which Mr. Bernanke seemed quite happy to reinforce the message of an imminent reduction in stimulus.
The trouble is that this is very much the wrong signal to be sending given the state of the economy. We're still very much living through what amounts to a low-grade depression -- and the Fed's bad messaging reduces the chances that we're going to exit that depression any time soon.
The first thing you need to understand is how far we remain from full employment four years after the official end of the 2007-9 recession. It's true that measured unemployment is down -- but that mainly reflects a decline in the number of people actively seeking jobs, rather than an increase in job availability. Look, for example, at the fraction of adults in their prime working years (25 to 54) who have jobs; that ratio fell from 80 to 75 percent in the recession, and has since recovered only to 76 percent.
Given this grim reality -- plus very low inflation -- you have to wonder why the Fed is talking at all about reducing its efforts on the economy's behalf.
Still, it's just talk, right? Well, yes -- but what the Fed says often matters as much as or more than what it does. This is inherent in the relationship between what the Fed more or less directly controls, namely short-term interest rates, and longer-term rates, which reflect expected as well as current short-term rates. Even if the Fed leaves short rates unchanged for now, statements that convince investors that these rates will be going up sooner rather than later will cause long rates to rise. And because long rates are what mainly matter for private spending, this will weaken growth and employment.
Sure enough, rates have shot up since the tapering talk started. Two months ago the benchmark interest rate on 10-year U.S. government bonds was only 1.7 percent, close to a historic low. Since then the rate has risen to 2.4 percent -- still low by normal standards, but, as I said, this isn't a normal economy. Maybe the economic recovery will, as the Fed predicts, continue and strengthen despite that increase in rates. But maybe not, and in any case higher rates will surely mean a slower recovery than we would have had if Fed officials had avoided all that talk of tapering.
Fed officials surely understand all of this. So what do they think they're doing?
One answer might be that the Fed has quietly come to agree with critics who argue that its easy-money policies are having damaging side-effects, say by increasing the risk of bubbles. But I hope that's not true, since whatever damage low rates may do is trivial compared with the damage higher rates, and the resulting rise in unemployment, would inflict.
In any case, my guess is that what's really happening is a bit different: Fed officials are, consciously or not, responding to political pressure. After all, ever since the Fed began its policy of aggressive monetary stimulus, it has faced angry accusations from the right that it is ''debasing'' the dollar and setting the stage for high inflation -- accusations that haven't been retracted even though the dollar has remained strong and inflation has remained low. It's hard to avoid the suspicion that Fed officials, worn down by the constant attacks, have been looking for a reason to slacken their efforts, and have seized on slightly better economic news as an excuse.
And maybe they'll get away with it; maybe the economic recovery will strengthen and all will be well. But rising interest rates make that happy outcome less likely. And now that everyone knows that the Fed is eager to slacken off, it will be hard to get interest rates back down to where they were.
It's sad and depressing, in both senses of the word. The fundamental reason our economy is still depressed after all these years is that so many policy makers lost the thread, forgetting that job creation was their most urgent task. Until now the Fed was an exception; but now it seems to be joining the club. Et tu, Ben?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (64%); INTEREST RATES (63%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2013



777 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: What's On Monday

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
4:25 P.M. (HBO Signature) BIRDERS: THE CENTRAL PARK EFFECT (2012) Each year more than a million birds stop in Central Park as they migrate through the area in the spring and fall. And without fail, several hundred birders, above, are there to take in the sight. In this documentary the first-time filmmaker Jeffrey Kimball explores this phenomenon across four years through the stories of those who find joy in creatures ''so alive, active, varied and beautiful,'' says Anya, a 15-year-old birder, who is shown alongside obsessives like Jonathan Franzen, the author of ''Freedom'' (which features a cerulean warbler on its cover), and Starr Saphir, who died in February and whose renowned walking tours made her the matriarch of Central Park bird-watching. Mr. Kimball also speaks to scientists, who call the concentration of birds there ''the Central Park effect,'' and who, each Christmas season, attempt to count the birds in the park to produce the annual report of birds in decline. 
2 P.M. (Showtime) I DON'T KNOW HOW SHE DOES IT (2011) Sarah Jessica Parker, left, portrays Kate Reddy, a hotshot manager for a Boston investment company and multitasker par excellence who suddenly finds herself unable to have it all. Greg Kinnear is her long-suffering husband, Richard, a struggling architect, who is left to care for their two young children as Kate flits back and forth between Boston and New York while her star ascends. Pierce Brosnan is Jack Abelhammer, a financial kingpin who falls in love with Kate and her every quirk. ''Carrie Bradshaw flirted her way into mass consciousness in the late '90s, when Ms. Parker was in her early 30s, and well before Sept. 11, two wars and a major recession dampened American exuberance,'' Stephen Holden wrote in The New York Times about this adaptation of Allison Pearson's novel, by the director Douglas McGrath. ''If Kate's hyperkinetic cheer and shrill self-absorption are Carrie trademarks, 13 years after 'Sex and the City' first appeared on television, their appeal has all but evaporated. 'I Don't Know How She Does It' seems stuck in the past. Except for one acid remark about bankers, the screenplay seems to imagine that the boom years are still upon us.''
8 P.M. (13, 49) ANTIQUES ROADSHOW ''Vintage Los Angeles'' revisits appraisals made 15 years ago and finds out what they're worth today. The items include Disney animation art, a 1906 Van Briggle vase and a Tiffany lamp valued at $30,000 to $40,000 in 1998 and is newly appraised at $50,000 to $75,000. At 9, a 2009 episode from Palm Springs, Calif., features a 1956 signed photograph from a guest's childhood that show him as a 10-year-old posed between the baseball Hall of Famers Jackie Robinson and Roy Campanella -- thought to be worth $6,000 to $8,000.
8 P.M. (ABC) THE BACHELORETTE On the first leg of their international tour, Desiree and the 11 remaining men go sightseeing in Munich and learn to yodel in the German Alps. Meanwhile, yet another scoundrel makes his true motives known.
8 P.M. (Bravo) THE REAL HOUSEWIVES OF ORANGE COUNTY In this 100th episode, current and former housewives recount the highlights and low points in eight seasons of this original series in the franchise.
8 P.M. (Sundance) SATURDAY NIGHT FEVER (1977) John Travolta, in an Oscar-nominated role, portrays Tony Manero, a Brooklyn paint-store clerk with dreams of ruling the dance floor as he struts in his inimitable white suit to the strains of the Bee Gees in this film directed by John Badham. Donna Pesco is Annette, Tony's dance partner and would-be girlfriend, who longs for something permanent; Karen Lynn Gorney is Stephanie, a secretary with visions of Manhattan.
9 P.M. (ABC Family) THE FOSTERS Mariana (Cierra Ramirez) prepares for her quinceañera but discovers something that could ruin her big day.
10 P.M. (13) HOMEGOINGS ''POV'' begins its 26th season with Christine Turner's portrait of Isaiah Owens, a Harlem undertaker, and an exploration of the African-American funeral customs created to turn sorrow into an affirmation of faith in the belief that loved ones are going home.
10 P.M. (ABC) MISTRESSES Savi (Alyssa Milano) learns that she is pregnant; Joss (Jess Macallan) befriends her real estate client; April (Rochelle Aytes) feels the pressure from a woman who claims to have had a child by April's dead husband; and Karen (Yunjin Kim) can't ignore her attraction to Sam (Erik Stocklin), the college-age son of her dead lover. KATHRYN SHATTUCK

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY HBO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIRDING (91%); BIRDS (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); DRAMA LITERATURE (76%); VISUAL ARTISTS (76%); WRITERS (76%); FILM DIRECTORS (76%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (76%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (71%); ANIMATION (71%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (60%); CHRISTMAS (52%); CHILDREN (50%)

PERSON: SARAH JESSICA PARKER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); PALM SPRINGS, CA, USA (71%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2013



778 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1219 words

HEADLINE: Investing by Algorithm

BYLINE: By CLAIRE CAIN MILLER

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO -- Here is how the venture capital game used to be played around here:
A friend calls a friend who knows a guy. A meeting is taken. Wine is drunk (at, say, Madera lounge in Menlo Park). A business plan? Sure, whatever. But how does it feel?
This is decidedly not how Google, that apotheosis of our data-driven economy, wants to approach the high-stakes business of investing in the next, well, Google. Unlike venture capitalists of old, the company's rising V.C. arm focuses not on the art of the deal, but on the science of the deal. First, data is collected, collated, analyzed. Only then does the money start to flow.
Google Ventures and its take on investing represent a new formula for the venture capital business, and skeptics say it will never capture the chemistry -- or, perhaps, the magic -- of Silicon Valley. Would computer algorithms have bankrolled David Packard or Steve Jobs? Foreseen the folly of Pets.com? 
The data provides one answer to those questions, at least for now: Since its founding in 2009, Google Ventures has stood out in an industry that, for all its star power, has been dealing its investors a bad hand. In recent years, an investor would have done better with a ho-hum mutual fund that tracks the stock market than with some splashy V.C. fund. Venture capital funds posted an annual average return of 6.9 percent from 2002 to 2012, trailing major stock indexes, according to Cambridge Associates.
Google Ventures, like all venture funds, does not publicly reveal returns. But its partners can count on one hand the number of its 170 investments that have failed, though it is too early to know how many will succeed, and it has missed investing in some superstar companies. Its successes include companies that have gone public, like HomeAway for vacation rentals and Silver Spring Networks for smart grid software, and start-ups sold to Google, Yahoo, Facebook and Twitter.
Whether Big Data -- that label for technology and decision-making that is upending so many businesses -- can truly transform the industry that helped spawn it remains to be seen. Few deny that crunching data is increasingly important. But some insist that those old intangibles, like instinct and luck, are still paramount.
''V.C.'s, just like all of our portfolio companies, need to be analytically intuitive in the modern era of data analytics,'' said Matt McIlwain, managing director of Madrona Venture Group, which has invested in companies like Amazon.com and Redfin, the real estate site. ''But the intuition part is ultimately the biggest factor. And even with all that, a little good luck goes a long way.''
Google Ventures was the first major firm to rely heavily on data. Since then, established funds like Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, Sequoia Capital and Y Combinator have followed suit, and new firms like the Ironstone Group and Palo Alto Venture Science have been created to test the strategy.
Many venture capitalists agree that something needs to change. In the tech industry, where engineers believe any problem can be solved with data, the solution seemed obvious.
''If you can't measure and quantify it, how can you hope to start working on a solution?'' said Bill Maris, managing partner of Google Ventures. ''We have access to the world's largest data sets you can imagine, our cloud computer infrastructure is the biggest ever. It would be foolish to just go out and make gut investments.''
Google Ventures has $1.5 billion under management -- a pittance in the wider world of Google, which made $50 billion in revenue last year. It employs seven people who gather data, analyze it and present the results to the investors. Jerome H. Friedman, a prominent statistician at Stanford who writes papers with names like ''Data Mining, Inference and Prediction,'' consults for a few hours a week.
The firm feeds its algorithms data gleaned from academic literature, past experience and due diligence about start-ups and their founders. Even college dropouts who have never started a company have a quantifiable track record, Mr. Maris said.
Google declined to reveal its secret sauce -- the algorithms it uses to parse the data. But it has learned a few lessons.
Here's a riddle from Graham Spencer, a general partner at Google Ventures who oversees its data work: Is it better to invest in someone who started a company in a mediocre year for returns and did well, or started one in a good year with mediocre results?
Most people say the first case. But results from academic studies show it is the second, because that indicates the founders have a better sense of market timing, Mr. Spencer said.
Some of the lessons seem obvious. An entrepreneur who has started a successful company is more likely to do it again, Google Ventures found, and start-ups based in tech hubs like the San Francisco Bay Area are more likely to succeed.
But the key, Mr. Spencer said, is to be able to understand which elements are most important, as opposed to coming up with black-and-white rules. Google's algorithms have shown that while location matters, for instance, past success is much more important. Investing only in experienced entrepreneurs, however, would have meant overlooking Mark Zuckerberg, as well as Larry Page and Sergey Brin.
''I'm distrustful of any single factor in determining entrepreneurial success,'' Mr. Spencer said. ''I don't like any of these pat, simple answers.''
Google says intuition and chemistry still play a crucial role, and can even override the data.
''We would never make an investment in a founder we thought was a jerk, even if all the data said this is an investment you should make,'' Mr. Maris said. ''We would make an investment in a founder we really believed in, even if all the data said we're making a mistake. But it would give us pause.''
Other venture firms are at further ends of the spectrum. For some, like Kleiner and Sequoia, data-driven venture capital means simply tracking how many times a start-up is mentioned on Twitter, or where it ranks in the App Store. For others, it means relying almost solely on algorithms to choose where to invest.
That is the strategy of Ironstone, a venture firm started by William R. Hambrecht, one of the pioneers of tech investing, who started a technology-focused investment bank in 1968 and helped take many of the biggest tech companies public.
Ironstone's algorithms have produced conclusions that are heretical to traditional venture capitalists. They say, for instance, that a start-up's founding team has only 12 percent predictive value, even though most investors rank that as one of the most important factors. And just 20 percent of Ironstone's analysis focuses on the start-up itself, and the rest is on the market it is entering, because they say start-ups are likely to change course and the market has more predictive power.
Thomas Thurston, a partner at the firm and chief executive of Growth Science, which uses data science to make business predictions for companies, welcomes the uproar.
''Some people fear a world where algorithms can do this,'' he said. ''Usually entrepreneurs are worried their flash of genius can't be captured, and the investors are very afraid that this will somehow diminish their value. 'If an algorithm can do better at picking than me, will that put me out of a job?' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Bill Maris, right, managing partner of Google Ventures, with Graham Spencer, who oversees its data work. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANNIE TRITT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
 Thomas Thurston, chief of Growth Science, which uses data to make business predictions. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVE DYKES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VENTURE CAPITAL (92%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (86%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); BUSINESS ANALYTICS (77%); BIG DATA (76%); BUSINESS PLANS (72%); SOCIAL MEDIA (71%); CELEBRITIES (71%); INDEX FUNDS (70%); RENTAL PROPERTY (62%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (92%); KLEINER PERKINS CAUFIELD & BYERS (60%); IPET HOLDINGS INC (55%); HOMEAWAY INC (53%); FACEBOOK INC (52%); AMAZON.COM INC (50%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (92%); AWAY (NASDAQ) (53%); FB (NASDAQ) (52%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (60%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (60%); NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (53%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (50%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (50%)

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2013



779 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 464 words

HEADLINE: For the Graduate, Just One Word: Reality

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''In Looser Tone, a Call to Take Risks and Be Engaged'' (news article, June 16):
Much of the graduation speech advice cited in the article assumes that by earnest effort and good will one can rise above failure, learn from it and thus achieve success. Such advice ignores the political context in which we live. 
To survive in this economic system, one often has to take a less than desirable job. And failure (to find work, for example) is often not one's fault but rather a result of systemic economic transformations, so moving on and learning from the experience is often impossible.
The lack of a political perspective makes those who are out of work or otherwise unable to realize their dreams blame themselves, which only compounds the deep depression that joblessness and failure induce.
JOSEPHINE DONOVAN Portsmouth, N.H., June 17, 2013
To the Editor:
Your article includes highlights from speeches delivered to the graduating classes of 2013. Cory A. Booker, the mayor of Newark, whose remarks at Yale were featured, also delivered the commencement address at several other schools, including mine, Washington University in St. Louis.
For my parents and me, it was the best speech we had ever heard. I recall hearing Mr. Booker tell us to focus on ''small things.'' That is, we must resist a top-down approach in response to challenges afflicting our generation; every one of us is capable of exercising change by committing ourselves to small acts, even if most will go unnoticed.
My self-esteem needed this speech. As someone interested in a career in public health -- a field focused on prevention and carrying out sustainable, long-term interventions -- I am constantly quizzed about why I am not pursuing medicine if I am interested in really helping people. Why would I limit myself?
ERIKA RUBEN St. Louis, June 19, 2013
To the Editor:
Re ''Humanities Committee Sounds an Alarm'' (Arts pages, June 19):
Good luck to the leaders trying to save the humanities as a road for study in higher education. Because of the perception that the job market is both frighteningly rigid and tight, there has been a major cultural shift away from the idea that college's purpose is for preparing one for life and that work is only part of life.
Work is now deemed as a brutal survival of the fittest, and thus the panic toward believing in a so-called practical-only education.
It is my own belief that studying the humanities does prepare one for the analytic challenges of the workplace. Unfortunately, such knowledge is not a tangible and measurable entity, and thus until there is another shift in the vagaries of the job market, I fear that the trend will continue.
BERNARD LANGS New York, June 19, 2013
The writer is an associate director of development at Rockefeller University.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JEAN JULLIEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); EMPLOYMENT (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (66%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (70%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (76%); MISSOURI, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2013



780 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1301 words

HEADLINE: Official Corruption in Mexico, Once Rarely Exposed, Is Starting to Come to Light

BYLINE: By KARLA ZABLUDOVSKY

 BODY:
MEXICO CITY -- Andrés Granier has a sumptuous wardrobe and lifestyle. He has bragged about owning 400 pairs of shoes, 300 suits and 1,000 shirts, collected from luxury stores in New York and Los Angeles. His purchases barely fit in his several properties, scattered throughout Mexico and abroad.
A tape recording of Mr. Granier's boasts, making him sound like a highflying corporate executive, was leaked to a local radio station last month. But his job title, until December, was governor of a midsize southeastern Mexican state, a position that currently pays about $92,000 a year after taxes.
''We go to Fifth Avenue and buy a pair of shoes; $600,'' Mr. Granier is heard saying about one of his trips abroad. ''I took clothes to Miami, I took clothes to Cancún, I took clothes to my house, and I have leftovers,'' he added, saying, ''I'm going to auction them off.'' (The day after the recording was made public, he said that he had been inebriated while making those statements in October.) 
But just as eye-opening as the extravagances of a public official -- now under investigation after Mr. Granier's successor discovered that about $190 million in state funds was unaccounted for, the state government said this month -- is that they came to light at all in a country where state and local corruption, a serious drag on Mexico's development, run deep and are rarely exposed.
The case of Mr. Granier, who was taken into custody on June 14 at a Mexico City hospital where he is being treated for a heart ailment, is just the latest among several former governors and public officials who have recently found themselves under investigation or facing public scorn.
Watchdog groups are gaining strength, opposition parties are challenging and exposing the faults of the status quo, and social and traditional news media organizations are increasingly seeking to hold officials accountable.
''There will be more of these because the issue has taken off,'' said Ricardo Corona, a public finance expert at the Mexican Institute for Competitiveness, a research group in Mexico City. ''There is encouragement on the issues of transparency, accountability, access to information.''
Mr. Granier's case is one of the more closely followed political spectacles here in recent years.
By January, when the new government in his state, Tabasco, found holes in the budget, Mr. Granier, 65, had retreated into obscurity. This month, after public shock and outrage over the recording reached a fever pitch, he suddenly resurfaced on television, saying he was in Miami.
''I'm going back to Mexico,'' he declared in an interview on one of Mexico's most-watched morning shows, Primero Noticias. ''I don't owe absolutely anything.''
Upon his arrival at the airport in the capital the following day, a chaotic news media swarm engulfed Mr. Granier -- at one point he stumbled before the cameras -- before he was whisked away in a white S.U.V., with camera crews on motorcycles giving chase.
Three days later, the Tabasco state attorney's office issued an arraignment order for Mr. Granier on suspicion of embezzlement and improper exercise of public service.
His treasurer, José Manuel Saiz, already had been arrested this month on suspicion of embezzlement as he tried to cross the border into the United States, after boxes containing nearly $7 million in unexplained cash were discovered on a property linked to him.
A decade ago, such suspicious accounting would have most likely been kept under wraps, as Mexican officials tended to protect one another and the public took their malfeasance for granted. During the uninterrupted 71-year rule of the Institutional Revolutionary Party, or PRI, governors, who often secured their appointments based on friendly ties with the autocratic presidents, were almost expected to pillage state treasuries.
When the party lost the 2000 presidential election, it left a political vacuum across the states. Governors around the country acquired unprecedented autonomy and almost no oversight, said Alfonso Zárate, the president of Grupo Consultor Interdisciplinario, a political consulting firm in Mexico.
State debt rose to $30 billion in 2012 from about $15 billion in 2008, according to the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit. Accounting for inflation, that was a 70.4 percent increase, according to an article in the online publication Animal Político by Marco Cancino, a political analyst in Mexico City. Governments have reported scant details of how they have spent the money from these loans.
But with governors from opposing political parties succeeding one another and doing away with the unspoken pact of the PRI years, in which incoming leaders protected departing ones, a system of checks and balances -- some have called it political retribution -- is emerging.
Freedom of information laws, recent legislative overhauls demanding more accountability from state governments and an increasingly technologically engaged society have been more successful at preventing murky finances from going unquestioned.
As a result, tales of disgraced former governors are becoming a staple of the news here, and are part of what Mr. Zárate calls an ''incipient democracy.''
In 2011, the federal attorney general's office opened an investigation into a $3 billion debt in the state of Coahuila, acquired mostly during the administration of Humberto Moreira, a former president of the PRI, which recovered the presidency in December. The former governor of the state of Aguascalientes, Luis Armando Reynoso, is being investigated over improper exercise of public service, news organizations have reported.
Last year, Mario Ernesto Villanueva Madrid, the former governor of the state of Quintana Roo who was extradited to the United States in 2010, pleaded guilty to conspiring to launder millions of dollars in bribes he received from the powerful Juárez drug organization, to ensure that its cocaine moved safely through his state, undisturbed by law enforcement.
Inroads in transparency, however, have yet to change the culture and mentality of ''El que no tranza, no avanza,'' or ''He who does not cheat, does not get ahead,'' a popular motto here. And these victories have yet to transform the country's image abroad: Mexico fell in Transparency International's corruption perception index to 105th place in 2012 from 57th in 2002, with a lower ranking indicating that the country is seen as more corrupt.
''We still don't have accountability,'' said Mr. Cancino, the political analyst, who warned that progress in transparency practices at the federal level would slowly make their way down to the local and state levels. ''There are still 32 battles that we have to wage,'' he said, referring to Mexico's 31 states and one federal district.
Small gains in transparency, seen through scandals like the one enveloping Mr. Granier, have not translated into justice served, experts say. Governors are investigated but rarely charged.
''We know what is going on,'' said Sergio Aguayo, a political analyst at the Colegio de México. ''But no measures are being taken.''
Mexicans who are active on Twitter discuss these scandals for days and sometimes weeks, shaming politicians and pressing traditional news media to cover them extensively. But political analysts argue that there are no effective mechanisms yet to translate citizen participation into structural change.
''What do we do so that society goes from indignation to action?'' Mr. Cancino asked.
In the meantime, former politicians who endure public scrutiny and a dose of humiliation often come out of these scandals largely unscathed. In April, the newspaper Reforma reported that Mr. Moreira, the repudiated former Coahuila governor, was living with his family in an upscale neighborhood in Barcelona, Spain, while attending a local university.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Tapes of Andrés Granier, center, the former governor of Tabasco State, boasting of his lifestyle were leaked to a radio station. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BERNARDO MONTOYA/REUTERS)
 Cash that was found on a property linked to José Manuel Saiz, Mr. Granier's treasurer. Mr. Saiz was arrested this month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AMERICA ROCIO/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORRUPTION (90%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); BUDGETS (75%); GOVERNORS (75%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (68%); POLITICS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2013



781 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1248 words

HEADLINE: States Reined In By '65 Voting ACT Await a Decision

BYLINE: By CAMPBELL ROBERTSON

 BODY:
BEAUMONT, Tex. -- There is little agreement on anything, even when it all started, but sometime in the last decade the Beaumont Independent School District became a battle zone.
Tempers have flared at school board meetings and lawsuits have been filed, as a mostly white group of critics have charged the black-majority school board with enabling corruption, wasteful spending and academic cheating. The school board's majority denies the charges and says the whites simply cannot tolerate black control.
Determined to change the board but aware that the incumbents could not be beaten in the current districts, the critics pursued alternatives. Last December, they pushed for a new election method that was approved, along narrow racial lines, in a citywide referendum. The Justice Department, citing Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act, objected to the new method and it was dropped.
Then, in April, the critics took advantage of a little-noticed state statute that rendered three of the board's black incumbents unexpectedly disqualified from the next election, a procedural maneuver affirmed by a Texas appeals court. This, too, was blocked by the Justice Department. 
But throughout the spring, Michael D. Getz, a city councilman and a leader of the crusade to remake the board, kept a close eye on the United States Supreme Court. ''I thought, 'Well, this might not be the last word on this,' '' he said.
The last word, for now, will come this week, when the Supreme Court rules on the constitutionality of Section 5. Passed in 1965 at the height of the civil rights movement and renewed and amended several times since, the section requires states, counties, cities, school boards, water districts and other jurisdictions where there has been a history of racial discrimination to submit any proposed voting changes to the Justice Department for approval, or ''preclearance.''
Shelby County, Ala., is arguing that these covered jurisdictions -- nine mostly Southern states and parts of several others -- are no longer any different from the rest of the country, and that the chore of compliance has become an unfair and costly burden.
''The preclearance mechanism is making it substantially more difficult for Alabama's current leaders to achieve important, much-needed reforms,'' the Alabama attorney general wrote in a friend-of-the-court brief. He went on to describe the prolonged and complicated procedures involved in getting federal approval for a ''facially nondiscriminatory'' plan to modernize the state's election code.
Proponents of Section 5 say the degree of progress in these areas is exaggerated, and many civil rights advocates are fearful of a broad rollback of minority voting power.
Last week, the Brennan Center for Justice at the New York University School of Law, which supports keeping Section 5, reported on the kinds of changes that might be put into practice if the section were to be struck down.
The report lists electoral changes that were recently blocked, like Texas' statewide redistricting plan and its voter identification law, and others that were withdrawn out of fear of an objection. Still others, including a voter identification law in Alabama, have been passed into law but not yet submitted for review. The ID law was passed in 2011, raising suspicions among civil rights groups that the state is simply waiting out the Supreme Court.
If Section 5 were to fall, hotly debated laws like those would still face legal challenges, said Richard H. Pildes, a law professor at New York University. Challenging a law would be more difficult and expensive without Section 5, Professor Pildes acknowledged, but he pointed out that voting restrictions were recently blocked in Ohio and Pennsylvania, states that are not covered by the section.
''I believe state election laws will continue to be robustly scrutinized and challenged,'' he wrote in an e-mail. However, he added, ''The biggest question will be changes to election laws at the level of local governments.''
It is at the level of counties, towns and school boards, where news media attention is often scant and legal resources fewer, that Section 5 is most active. From 1982 to 2006, according to a recent article in The Yale Law Journal, more than 85 percent of voting change objections came from jurisdictions below the state level.
Section 5 submissions from low-level jurisdictions have become routine, local officials and lawyers say, and for the most part federal approval has become routine as well. Since 2000, more than 200,000 voting changes have been submitted to the Justice Department and fewer than 80 objections have been lodged.
But it is a matter of debate as to whether that indicates a lasting change in political behavior or simply the effectiveness of Section 5's constraints.
There does not need to be intentional discrimination for some voting change to end up weakening hard-won minority voting power, said Prof. Pamela S. Karlan of Stanford Law School.
''On things like polling place changes, a lot of times they just don't think about it and the concern about minority enfranchisement isn't even on the radar,'' she said. Section 5 forces city councils and school districts to consider such outcomes, since those affected may not have the resources to bring attention to such disenfranchisement.
Local officials say that they are committed to fair representation but that Section 5 forces them to create unreasonable election plans.
''We can put forth a plan that has a lot of common sense to it, if we don't have to have Justice Department clearance,'' said Ken Clark, a commissioner for Galveston County, Tex., who helped draw up several redistricting maps that were blocked when the Justice Department said they were adopted with a ''discriminatory purpose.''
Mr. Clark said the county would probably not revive those blocked maps if Section 5 were struck down. In that case, ''it just opens up our options,'' he said, adding that even those earlier plans were created with federal approval in mind.
The same arguments being made in Washington are being made in Beaumont. Now a black-majority city, Beaumont has a history of federal intervention, having been forced in the 1980s to consolidate its two school districts: one mostly white and affluent and the other mostly black and economically struggling.
The critics of the current board, pointing as proof of their concerns to an investigation into the district by the Texas Education Agency, say that racial tensions are being sustained by Section 5, a relic of bygone times.
''There is a part of this community that never forgets, no matter how much progress is made,'' said Michael Neil, one of three white members of the seven-member board. ''What we hear about is how things used to be.''
Supporters of the current board say the schools have genuinely been improving, and Janice Brassard, a white school board member who tends to vote with the black majority, said that the anger of some of the critics goes back long before the recent allegations of mismanagement. ''I really feel they think that blacks and whites don't need to be playing in the same sandbox,'' Ms. Brassard said.
In any case, the school board and its critics will soon find out the rules under which they can continue the fight. Mr. Neil and Mr. Getz expect a favorable court decision, and a renewed chance to remake the school board.
Asked what she would do if the court struck down Section 5, a black school board member, Zenobia Bush, simply said, ''Pray.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Michael Getz, a Beaumont, Tex., city councilman, has led a crusade to remake the school board.
 Michael Neil is one of three white members of the seven-member school board in Beaumont. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL STRAVATO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCHOOL BOARDS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTION LAW (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); LITIGATION (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); APPROVALS (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (88%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (88%); SUPREME COURTS (88%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (88%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); RACE & RACISM (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); DISCRIMINATION (77%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); ELECTIONS (75%); REFERENDUMS (74%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); SCHOOL CHEATING (73%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (73%); CORRUPTION (72%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (69%); APPEALS COURTS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALABAMA, USA (93%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2013



782 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: Rowboats for Retirement

BYLINE: NANCY FOLBRE


HIGHLIGHT: Individual retirement accounts aren&#8217;t helping most Americans save for retirement and should be replaced by a national pension system, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Nancy Folbre is an economics professor at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. 
It feels so good to row your own boat. You're the captain. You can set your own course and speed. According to the boat advertisements, you are almost sure to reach your destination as long as you pay for good advice, rebalance and row hard. Sure, there may be big waves, but you can ride them out, and storms always subside.
A lot of people used to think of 401(k) retirement accounts this way. But in the last six years, most Americans have gained a new appreciation of financial bad weather and the threat of a perfect storm. Stock market volatility, low interest rates and a sagging bond market have discouraged retirement savings. 
Persistent unemployment and stagnant wages have left many workers treading water, struggling so hard to stay afloat that they couldn't open a retirement account even if they wanted to.
A new report from the National Institute on Retirement Security, based on analysis of the 2010 Survey of Consumer Finances, shows that about 45 percent of all working-age households don't hold any retirement account assets, whether in an employer-sponsored 401(k) type plan or an individual retirement account.
Among those 55 to 64 years old, two-thirds of working households with at least one earner have retirement savings less than one year's income, far below what they will need to maintain their standard of living in retirement. By a variety of measures, most households, even those with defined benefit pensions, are falling far short of the savings they will need.

The report lends weight to longstanding criticisms of the increased reliance on individual savings in the United States retirement system, including Jacob Hacker's "The Great Risk Shift: The Assault on American Jobs, Families, Health Care and Retirement and How You Can Fight Back" and Teresa Ghilarducci's "When I'm 64: The Plot Against Pensions and the Plan to Save Them."
Current efforts to encourage 401(k) and I.R.A. accounts primarily benefit those who already have substantial savings. The National Institute on Retirement Security report shows that households with retirement accounts have five to six times the non-retirement wealth of non-owning households in the same age group. Recent research on tax incentives in Denmark shows that they encourage shifts from conventional accounts to retirement accounts, rather than increasing overall savings.
Households in the top fifth of the income distribution reap 70 percent of the tax subsidies. Money in retirement accounts (unlike pension benefits) can be bequeathed to heirs, perpetuating wealth inequality.
Employers have little incentive to expand benefits. Some 401(k) fans contend that automatic enrollment (requiring employees to opt out of a regular contribution, rather than opting in) could increase participation. But evidence suggests that employers who use automatic enrollment offer a lower match to employee contributions in order to control their costs.
Many families who manage to accumulate retirement savings are forced to dip into them when they experience unemployment or other unexpected economic stress. The 10 percent withdrawal penalty makes this a particularly costly way of paying bills.
An increasing percentage of workers are being forced to stay on the job longer than they had planned. The percentage of workers expecting to retire after age 65 increased to 33 percent in 2010 from 11 percent in 1991 and 19 percent in 2000. That's a hardship not just for the older generation but for the younger generation waiting for jobs to open up.
That younger generation may also find that their older family members, unable to meet their medical expenses or long-term care needs, will need significant financial assistance.
The National Institute for Retirement Security reports that more than 90 percent of Americans they surveyed would favor a new pension plan that is available to everyone, is portable from job to job and provides contributors with a monthly check throughout retirement.
This sounds a lot like the guaranteed retirement accounts that Professor Ghilarducci has proposed, which would require all workers and employers to contribute to a retirement fund but guarantee a minimum rate of return. This more centralized approach would both lower administrative costs and pool risks.
Legislation proposed by Senator Tom Harkin, Democrat of Iowa, has similar features, offering the advantages of a traditional pension without forcing individual employers to bear all the risks.
It would put all Americans in the same retirement boat.
No boat is unsinkable. But for long-distance trips to old age, an ocean liner would be a lot more secure - and comfortable - than a rowboat. It would probably also be safer than the brass-and-mahogany cabin cruisers in which the affluent hope to make their crossing.

        
Declining Wealth Brings a Rising Retirement Risk
        
The Health Care Law and Retirement Savings
        
Study Questions Tax Breaks' Effect on Retirement Savings
        
Pensions Under Stress, Worldwide
        
Podcast: Europe, Pensions, Wealth and Phone Bills

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE (95%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (93%); US 401K PLANS (91%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); FAMILY (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); EMPLOYMENT (76%); DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (73%); RESEARCH REPORTS (73%); BOND MARKETS (69%); BONDS (69%); TAX INCENTIVES (60%); TAX LAW (60%); INTEREST RATES (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (54%) 401(k), 403(b) and 457 Plans; Pensions and Retirement Plans; Today's Economist

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2013



783 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 638 words

HEADLINE: Dead-enders in Dark Suits

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: A remarkable report from the BIS. 

 BODY:
The Bank for International Settlements is the central bankers' central bank; accordingly, it tends to exhibit the prejudices of the tribe in especially concentrated form. In particular, it has been relentless in making the case for higher interest rates, on the grounds that ... well, the logic keeps changing. For a while it was warning about inflation and commodity prices; when the inflation failed to materialize and commodity prices slumped again, it simply changed the argument to one against bubbles, plus the quite amazing argument that central bankers must not keep rates low because that would take the fiscal pressure off governments. Who, exactly, elected these people to run the world?
But in its latest report the BIS really transcends itself. 
Part of what makes the report so awesome is the way that it trots out every discredited argument for austerity, with not a hint of acknowledgement that these arguments have been researched and refuted at length. Early on, for example, it declares that
studies have repeatedly shown that as government debt surpasses about 80% of GDP, it starts to become a drag on growth.
Somebody didn't get the memo (or, more likely, the report had already been sent to the printers when Reinhart-Rogoff-Wrong broke).
And that's just one of many. For another example, the BIS goes on at length about the alleged difficult of shifting workers out of housing into other sectors, and the role of this alleged lack of flexibility in causing sustained high unemployment. What about all those studies showing that employment fell broadly across sectors and regions, indeed across occupations and skill classes, all of which is inconsistent with this story? Never mind.
But the real reason to be horrified by this report doesn't lie in the details, it lies in the destructive incoherence of the whole vision.
The BIS largely accepts a balance-sheet, debt-overhang view of the crisis; indeed, it inveighs a lot against both public and private sector debt. And it demands that everyone, public and private both, deleverage fast, starting immediately.
Hello? Does anyone see the problem? If everyone is slashing spending, who will buy what they have to sell? And won't a global depression - because that, in effect, is what they're calling for - both undermine attempts to save and actually raise debt/GDP ratios, though a falling denominator?
In fact, their own data are trying to tell them this story. They lament the fact that debt ratios have risen, not fallen, in most countries:
But they fail to note that some of the biggest increases have come in countries pursuing savage austerity. This is not, of course, a mystery: Greece has made budget cuts amounting to around 15 percent of GDP, the equivalent of $2.5 trillion in the United States, but it has been chasing a rapidly falling GDP. To some of us, this is evidence of the futility of austerity; to the BIS it's evidence that people need to cut much more.
Now, you could argue that we need sharp spending cuts by private and public debtors, but that we can avoid a global depression by using expansionary monetary policy to encourage whoever is left to spend more. But noooo [/end Belushi]: the BIS is fiercely opposed to easy money, which it says just encourages irresponsibility.
So the BIS is calling both for sharp cuts in public spending and for sharp cuts in private spending, encouraged by an end to easy money. I'm not sure how this is supposed to work; maybe the idea is for everyone to run a large trade surplus, at the same time.
In the end, though, this isn't about analysis, it's about attitude. The BIS is basically embodying the notion that we must pay for our past sins, never mind the arithmetic.
And the worst of it is that these views will carry some weight, because the BIS still, for some reason, retains substantial credibility.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CENTRAL BANKS (92%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); BUDGETS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); INTEREST RATES (72%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); NATIONAL DEBT (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); BUDGET CUTS (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2013



784 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 290 words

HEADLINE: Florida Versus Spain, An Update

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Labor mobility, here and there. 

 BODY:
I've suggested on a number of occasions that one good way to understand the problems of the euro is to compare the experiences of Florida and Spain. Both had huge housing bubbles, fed in part by buyers of coastal holiday homes, which burst. Both suffered nasty recessions as a result. But then their destinies diverged, because one was part of a fiscal as well as monetary union, while the other wasn't. As its economy shrank, Florida paid much less in federal taxes, even as federal spending in Florida rose; I've estimated the de facto federal aid to Florida in 2010 at around 5 percent of GDP. That's aid, not loans; anything on that scale would have been inconceivable in Europe. 
Now, as everyone knows, Spain continues to suffer, with unemployment rising ever higher; and despite ECB actions that have contained its borrowing costs, no end to the debt crisis is in sight. Meanwhile, what's going on in Florida?
Remarkably, the Florida unemployment rate is not only down, it's slightly below the national average:
How did that happen? It's not because of a huge employment boom: Florida's employment decline was much bigger than that of the nation as a whole, and it has not made up the gap:
What has happened, presumably, is out-migration: workers leaving Florida for better job markets. Oh, by the way: further evidence against the notion that "structural" mismatches explain weak employment.
Now, out-migration is a big problem when it happens in Europe, because it undermines the fiscal base; but in Florida, which benefits from federal retirement and health-care programs, housing the elderly is actually an export industry.
So the saga continues - and the evidence continues to mount that Europe just wasn't ready for a single currency.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); ECONOMIC MIGRATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); HOUSING BUBBLE (77%); RECESSION (77%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); DEBT CRISIS (76%); CORPORATE DEBT (74%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); CURRENCIES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); SENIOR CITIZENS (63%); HEALTH CARE (50%); EXPORT TRADE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (93%); SPAIN (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2013



785 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(India Ink)

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2013

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 1600 words

HEADLINE: India-U.S. Relations: The Search for a Transformative Moment

BYLINE: SALMAN KHURSHID


HIGHLIGHT: India and the United States need to build upon the success of the civil nuclear deal and work toward the next defining moment. 

 BODY:
India and the world have changed dramatically in the past two decades. The relationship between India and the United States has strengthened spectacularly and brought substantive gain to both countries. It has also given birth to great expectations. The management and fulfilment of those expectations is crucial for the dialogue and partnership between the two countries.
The India-U.S. Strategic Dialogue 2013 comes at a critical moment. India is increasingly focused on the forthcoming national elections. President Barack Obama, in his second term, is looking at the legacy he would bequeath to his country and the world.
The relationship between India and the United States has been driven by both the bilateral governmental interface and the natural affinity and attraction between their citizens. The liberal philosophical moorings of some of the first leaders of independent India, shared values of democracy and freedom, and admiration for the American Constitution, brought us together. A growing number of Indian students and professionals sought educational and work opportunities in the United States alongside India's engagement with the Non-Aligned Movement and the Soviet Union. 
The intrinsic bond between two liberal democracies was captured in the iconic photograph of President John F. Kennedy and Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru by the Potomac in Washington. And the subsequent distances in our relationship were evoked well by a photo characterized by the stiff body language of President Richard M. Nixon and Prime Minister Indira Gandhi years later.
From "estranged democracies" to "engaged democracies," it has been a long and fascinating journey for India and the United States. India is exploring and absorbing in myriad ways its transition from being a country subjected to select American sanctions to becoming a strategic partner of the United States.
In the Indian discovery of America and the American discovery of India, increased expectations, timely delivery on commitments, agreed-upon mutual course corrections and consolidation of gains would be crucial.
India-U.S. Strategic Dialogue provides opportunities to measure the distance traveled and to map the future. The elements of contemporary international relations are complex. Strands of real or perceived ideology and self-interest intertwine to shape and shade the global fabric. The United States has fought valiantly in Afghanistan and India will willingly make its contribution to the peace and rehabilitation effort in its own characteristic and calibrated manner. Peace is indivisible and must come as a whole, not in pieces, both in our neighborhood and beyond. There is much scope for joint reflection on these matters.
Attempts to create a better world are as challenging as resolving conflicts. Sustainable development and climate change, an equitable and efficient world trade system, food and energy security, cyber security and counter-terrorism strategies are all matters on which there are differing and divided opinions across the globe. The G8 and G20 nations have yet to bridge the gaps in perception and strategies of the developing and the developed countries even as the emerging economies attempt to straddle the two sides.
It makes it imperative for the India-U.S. Strategic Dialogue to succeed in the interest of our two countries and the world. In the lives of nations, as in the lives of people, the right moment can achieve what years of effort strove for. India and the United States found that transformative moment in the signing of the Civil Nuclear Agreement. We need to build upon that success and work towards the next defining moment.
Every nation seeks partners and friends. India and the United States are no exception, but we are currently tasked to nurture the strategic partnership that we already have in place and to which we are mutually committed to preserve and protect. The pressures and difficulties posed by our domestic politics and economics, the unresolved issues of the world, must not deter us.
The challenge before us is to reconcile competing self-interests and combine them into enlightened mutual interest. That is not a simple matter of persuasive arguments and attractive power point presentations. We both have constraints of democracy, which are exacerbated by the different levels of development and corresponding demands of our respective economies, societies and people.
For instance, India at the moment is relatively low on carbon emissions. But those will increase as we address the developmental needs of our people, unless adequately provided to adapt to low-emission technology that is obviously costly.
Developing countries like India expect that the United States and other developed countries will agree to binding targets to cut emissions, having had the advantage of several centuries of development. This competing logic applies to many sectors. The solutions lie in our mutual convergence at a middle ground. The very purpose of dialogue is to find common ground and to creatively conceive a point of agreement where there is none. It is important that ours is a dialogue that flows from our partnership and not one to create a relationship.
India is not impervious to the pressures the United States faces as it walks the fiscal cliff, tries to revive its economy, addresses persisting unemployment, and the inevitable demands from its businessmen and people that the US government pursue policies for preferential domestic production and services to protect jobs.
Many of our own aspirations are linked with increased demand for goods and services in the United States. India expects her friends in the West to understand how tough a current account deficit can be on a developing economy, how important it is that information technology and pharmaceuticals-the sectors of our economy that have provided the cutting edge to India's growth and boosted our middle class - be supported and encouraged. In India today, social activists and the courts are vigorously scrutinizing public servants, which impacts response time. There is a steep learning curve as we take the reform road. Our fiercely autonomous Parliament and judiciary, reflecting the separation of powers, have to be taken on board to ensure a satisfactory response to our collective aspirations. This will be speeded up with important conceptual strides that we hope to take soon.
Secretary of State John Kerry will be received in India as a familiar name and face, having been a key figure in U.S. foreign policy as chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee during a period of great significance to India. It will be an opportunity for him to reconnect with several old friends and discover new ones. It will indeed be an honor for me to sit across the table from him at Hyderabad House and draw plans for taking our relationship forward, both between the two of us as indeed for our countries.
As we look from Raisina Hill to Capitol Hill, we can see President Obama and Prime Minister Manmohan Singh wrapping up a decade of eventful cooperation later this year. That provides us with an impetus to further the spirit of working together that was underscored by the historic Indian-U.S. Civil Nuclear Agreement and the contemporaneous paradigm shift in perceptions.
The road ahead is the very road that was signposted by milestones such as the meeting of my predecessor, Foreign Minister S. M. Krishna with Secretary Hillary Rodham Clinton. The signposts of strategic partnership will hopefully have sectors such as clean energy, innovation in science and technology, peaceful use of nuclear energy, space, education and skills development, securing global supply chains, interdict illicit finance flows and counterfeit currency, intelligence sharing, enhanced cyber security, and the expansion of trade and investment.
Finally in the realm of defense, we hope our relationship is not merely a buyer-seller relationship, but a true strategic partnership involving joint research, manufacture of equipment, training of personnel and military exercises.
The building blocks of such a partnership are in place, but they need to be cemented by sustained and enhanced political will. We are able to talk and listen even where convergent and common positions take time to formulate.
Long journeys require pauses. We might pause and rest, but we aren't reluctant travelers. Traffic rules in our respective countries might mandate us to drive on different sides of the road, the spirit of the July 2005 joint statement and November 2010 joint statement of Prime Minister Singh and President Obama has brought us on a shared path and agreed destination. We need to watch the speed, not lose time, and yet not be reckless.
Secretary Kerry and I won't only judge how the engines are running, but also reaffirm how the spirit of adventure remains undiminished. As we drive past the fields of opportunity, I paraphrase the lines of the great American poet Robert Frost that Prime Minister Nehru loved to quote: "The woods are lovely, dark and deep, but I have promises to keep; And miles to go before I sleep; And miles to go before I sleep." The dialogue between India and the United States will be an objective look at the miles ahead but also a reaffirmation of our strategic partnership.
 Salman Khurshid is India's Minister for External Affairs. 

        
What They Said: The U.S. Election
        
The New New Thing in U.S.-Indian Relations?
        
'Kissinger Cables' Offer Window Into Indian Politics of the 1970s
        
Diwali Greetings From Near and Far
        
A Conversation With: Conservative Author and Filmmaker Dinesh D'Souza

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); ELECTIONS (73%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); COUNTERTERRORISM (71%); PRISONS (67%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (63%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (62%); FOOD SECURITY (60%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (60%); TERRORISM (50%) Gandhi, Indira; India; Kerry, John; Nehru, Jawaharlal; Obama, Barack; Singh, Manmohan; United States

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (90%); BARACK OBAMA (87%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); MANMOHAN SINGH (74%); RICHARD NIXON (55%) Gandhi, Indira; Kerry, John; Nehru, Jawaharlal; Obama, Barack; Singh, Manmohan

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); ASIA (79%) India; United States

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2013



786 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2013

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 1123 words

HEADLINE: Poll Finds Australians Uneasy About Chinese Investment

BYLINE: SUE-LIN WONG


HIGHLIGHT: A new poll by Australia&#8217;s Lowy Institute found that many Australians remained concerned about Chinese investment because of perceptions of poor transparency in Chinese companies and a lack of democracy and rule of law in China. 

 BODY:
BEIJING - 9:37 p.m. | Updated From American pig farms to Club Med and British yacht makers, China's appetite for overseas investment is growing fast and diversifying. Governments and businesses are quick to praise the trend, but what do ordinary citizens think?
Australia is at the forefront of Chinese investment, and on Monday the Lowy Institute, a leading foreign policy research center in Sydney, released the results of a poll in which 57 percent of respondents said Australia was allowing too much investment from China, consistent with findings from previous years. 
Chinese outbound investment increased to $77.22 billion in 2012, according to the Dragon Index, the first index to track Chinese outbound investment globally, by A Capital, a private equity fund based in Brussels.
While Australia is popular, countries like the United States and Canada are catching up, according to a KPMG report, "Demystifying Chinese Investment in Australia: Update March 2013."
Most investment in Australia was in mining and gas, but paralleling a global trend it is diversifying into sectors like agriculture and real estate. Last month, State Grid Corp., China's largest energy distributor, bought an $812 million stake in the Australian energy company SP AusNet.
Presented with foreign investment options from around the world including the Norwegian government investment fund and U.S. corporations, respondents gave investments by Chinese state-owned enterprises the lowest rate of approval at 23 percent, in a different poll conducted in August 2012 by Essential Media, a strategic political consulting firm.
"Australians recognize the economic value of Chinese investments but are wary of their provenance and the poor transparency of Chinese state-run companies," said Kerry Brown, executive director of the China Studies Center at the University of Sydney.
There are concerns over human rights issues, with China's image not helped by high-profile cases in which the government detained Australian citizens born in China.
Among several factors, China has "a non-democratic system, an unfamiliarity, a completely different society and political system, I think that is what Australians are wary of," said Alex Oliver, who headed up the Lowy poll this year.
Recent territorial disputes between China and its neighbors may be one reason 41 percent of Australians polled thought it was likely that China would become a military threat to Australia in the next 20 years. Allegations of Chinese cyberhacking aimed at government organizations and major corporations in Australia have not helped perceptions.
Over all, it's a bumpy ride for Chinese investment in Australia. Politicians and the news media are regularly accused of hyping anti-Chinese sentiment, with one conservative politician calling the decision last year to sell a cotton farm to Chinese and Japanese investors "a bloody disgrace." High-profile mining deals have partly or fully fallen through, with notable examples including those between Chinalco and Rio Tinto in 2009, and between China Minmetals and OZ Minerals the same year. Out of concern for national security, the Chinese telecommunications giant Huawei has been banned from tendering for government contracts for Australia's National Broadband Network.
But many in the business community say there is a lot of ignorance and confusion when Australians talk about Chinese investment and China's strategic motives.
"State owned does not mean state controlled," said Doug Ferguson, head of the KPMG Australia China Business Practice. "Many of China's state-owned companies that invest in Australia are driven by profitable growth, access to new markets to sell products and services, acquisition of intellectual property and a desire to learn, similar to American, French, Japanese and Korean companies."
And it's easy to forget that China is only the ninth-largest foreign direct investor in Australia. "There has been so much media hype about Chinese investment that no one seems to remember that Chinese investment accounts for just 3 percent of total foreign direct investment in Australia," said Linda Jakobson, director of the Lowy Institute's East Asia Program.
Attitudes also differ between sectors. While Australians might be more open to foreign investment in natural resources and the arts, the 2012 Lowy poll found that 81 percent of Australians were against the government allowing foreign companies to buy Australian farmland.
"It hits right at the Australian identity of Australia as a farming nation, an agricultural power harking back to its wool and beef trade," Ms. Oliver said.
"These concerns about Chinese companies buying into the Australian agricultural sector are valid inasmuch as Chinese companies must do more themselves to shift these misunderstandings and misconceptions about their ownership," Dr. Brown said.
Engagement might be one key to a broader understanding of investor motivations. The 2013 Lowy poll indicated that people from Western Australia, the state that receives the most Chinese investment, were the least concerned about China as a military threat.
Chinese managing directors who speak good English, plan to have longer-term careers in Australia and understand Australian business culture are also ideal, Mr. Ferguson said. "Australia is a very sports crazy country, so it helps that Huawei and LiuGong have sponsored rugby league jerseys. It's a similar strategy to what the Japanese do in Australia."
"Changing Australian perceptions is a public diplomacy challenge for China. From time to time, Australians are reminded that China's motivations might not be benign, " Ms. Oliver said.
Yet despite some contradictory views in the poll that Australians had toward their country's engagement with Asia, the vast majority of respondents, 87 percent, thought it was possible for Australia to have a good relationship with China and the United States at the same time.
"Australians are very pragmatic towards China. From a business point of view, Australians are firmly attached to their hip pocket and they know which side their bread is buttered on," Ms. Oliver said. "For that reason, it will be business as usual with China."
The following, partial quote was amended for accuracy: Among several factors, China has "a non-democratic system, an unfamiliarity, a completely different society and political system, I think that is what Australians are wary of," said Alex Oliver, who headed up the Lowy poll this year.

        
China Court Ruling Could Threaten Foreign Investments in Country
        
Becoming 'Asia Literate': Learn Chinese, but Don't Stop There
        
China's Development a 'Threat' to Democracies, Authors Say
        
China Adds Sparkle to Champagne Sales
        
Chinese Activists Demand Clarity on Domestic Violence Law

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (91%); TRENDS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); POLITICS (86%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (78%); HOG & PIG FARMING (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); PRIVATE EQUITY (73%); BOAT BUILDING (73%); CONSERVATISM (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS (68%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (67%) Foreign Investments; Aluminum Corporation of China Ltd; Club Mediterranee SA; Huawei Technologies Co Ltd; Minmetals; Rio Tinto PLC; Australia; China; Aluminum Corporation of China Ltd|ACH|NYSE; Rio Tinto PLC|RIO|NYSE; View From Asia

COMPANY: KPMG (69%); CLUB MEDITERRANEE SA (58%); RIO TINTO GROUP (58%); STATE GRID CORP OF CHINA (58%); CHINA MINMETALS CORP (58%); SP AUSNET (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Aluminum Corporation of China Ltd; Club Mediterranee SA; Huawei Technologies Co Ltd; Minmetals; Rio Tinto PLC

TICKER: CU (PAR) (58%); RIOS (BRU) (58%); RIO (NYSE) (58%); RIO (LSE) (58%); RIO (ASX) (58%); X04 (SGX) (55%); SPN (ASX) (55%) Aluminum Corporation of China Ltd; ACH; NYSE; Aluminum Corporation of China Ltd; ACH; NYSE; Rio Tinto PLC; RIO; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (69%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (69%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (58%); NAICS483114 COASTAL & GREAT LAKES PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (58%); SIC4481 DEEP SEA TRANSPORTATION OF PASSENGERS, EXCEPT BY FERRY (58%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (58%); NAICS212210 IRON ORE MINING (58%); NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (58%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (58%); NAICS523140 COMMODITY CONTRACTS BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523130 COMMODITY CONTRACTS DEALING (58%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (55%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (55%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (55%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (55%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (91%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) CHINA (99%); AUSTRALIA (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); NORWAY (79%) Australia; China

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2013



787 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 1627 words

HEADLINE: This Week in Small Business: Firing the Founder

BYLINE: GENE MARKS


HIGHLIGHT: Google spawns start-ups in Kansas City &#8212; and also reinvents human resources. Why using social media well is harder than you think. Ten ideas for marketing and advertising. And do you think it&#8217;s harder to run a business today than it was five years ago? 

 BODY:
What's affecting me, my clients and other small-business owners this week.
 Must-Reads 
Google Fiber spawns a start-up renaissance in Kansas City. Floyd Norris explains how a brilliant tax-avoidance strategy for S corporations went terribly wrong. And Scott Horsley believes rock 'n' roll explains the economy.
 Economy: Still Grumpy
Builder confidence reaches its highest level since 2006, and the Architecture Billings Index rebounds strongly. Housing starts were up 6.8 percent in May, but Steven Hansen's analysis paints a slightly different picture. Manufacturing conditions in the New York (pdf) and Philadelphia regions improved, household financial health is looking up, and people are spending more on weddings. Dun & Bradstreet advises that: "While the outlook is brighter, it's important to understand this recovery remains uneven depending on geography, vertical and individual company health." Key measures also show low and falling inflation, and a prominent economist is now predicting growth to be 3 to 3.5 percent. But the number of Standard & Poor's 500 companies that have issued earnings guidance below consensus analyst estimates is running higher than normal. And Harvard's Niall Ferguson is still grumpy. 
 The Fed: Stepping Off the Gas 
Ben S. Bernanke prepares to step off the gas, and Wall Street throws a tantrum. Justin Wolfers helps explain what the Federal Reserve is saying. Eduardo Porter makes the case for a rise in inflation, and Matthew Yglesias believes that with inflation low, the Fed should stay far away from tighter money. This chart shows how bad the Fed is at predicting the future, and these three charts show that the recent stock market rally is not all about the Fed.
 Management: Firing the Founder 
Mike Martel explains why you should not "eat the elephant" one bite at a time: "The real problem with taking it step by step is that most people lose interest and end up quitting." This is how an old barn and a cider press became a thriving small business and a local institution. Rafi Mohammed explains how Microsoft "blew it" on the price of Xbox One. Here are 10 books every entrepreneur should read. Michael Dillon thinks franchisees should take it upon themselves to make changes. The founder of Men's Wearhouse is fired (it's tricky when the founder is also the face of the brand). Here are seven reasons you need a business plan. Maria Konnikova demonstrates how caffeine can cramp your creativity, and another report finds that dim lighting sparks it. Were these small businesses misledby a credit service's sales pitch?
 Small Business Week: It's Getting Harder 
President Obama proclaimed last week National Small Business Week. The Latino Coalition, Citizens Bank, the National Association of Small Business Professionals, Chrysler, and Google all sent their regards. The Small Business Administration celebrated its champions in Illinois, and Ernst & Young used the occasion to name its American and worldwide Entrepreneurs of the Year. Brock Blake thinks a Micro Business Week might be more appropriate. A survey from Capital One Bank says small-business conditions are improving, and another from Citibank reveals a three-year high in how owners view business conditions. However, almost half of small-business owners say access to credit is still a problem. A Constant Contact survey finds that the majority of small businesses say it's harder to run a business today than five years ago, and this infographic explains how running a start-up has changed. But have faith: a UPS Store survey finds that 48 percent of Americans dream of starting a business, while 71 percent of small-business owners say they would start their businesses all over again.
 People: Reinventing H.R. 
Here's how Google is reinventing human resources - but the company acknowledges its infamous brainteasers were completely useless for hiring, and a former Google and Microsoft engineer explains why he would have hired Edward Snowden: "elitist, arrogant rebels often make the best employees." A 30-year-old explains why he took an internship. There's much to be learned from the best employers for baby boomers. Bob Phibbs has suggestions for empowering employees. This is how eight retail workers make the most of their free time. Data show that people joining the work force today are less educated than those leaving it. Two Dunkin' Donuts employees get rave reviews for handling a racist rant. ADP says the number of franchise jobs grew by 19,160 in May, and surprise: an analysis says that the more applications you fill out, the better chance you have of getting a job. Shawn Stefani hits a hole-in-one at Merion.
 Entrepreneurs: Learn to Code 
Steve Mariotti interviews Maria Jimenez, a top youth entrepreneurship educator. Kylie Toh believes all entrepreneurs should learn to code because it enables you to be self-sufficient. The House Committee on Small Business highlights a few "made in the U.S.A." stories of small manufacturers. Entrepreneurs are impressive, but not as impressive as these new astronauts. A social media app from Deluxe uncovers the secret identities of America's small-business owners.
 Social Media: Harder Than You Think 
Here are a few creative ways to use Pinterest for your business. Barbara Findlay Schenck has nine tips to power up your social media. Chris Marentis warns that effective social media marketing is more difficult than most people think. Facebook passes one million advertisers and brings video to Instagram. Tom Andel shares stories of manufacturers succeeding by using social media. A satirical Taylor Swift Twitter feed gains 80,000 followers in six days. This is how a two-star Amazon review makes thousands of sales. This infographic shows why going viral online is big business. A webinar will help you measure and improve your internal e-mail.
 Sales and Marketing: Dueling E-Mail Services 
Giancarlo Massaro shares advice for how to get leads and sales. Here are 34 research reports on content marketing. SendGrid picks an e-mail marketing fight with MailChimp. These were the top 10 ideas from marketing and advertising over the last 12 months. This is how to offer smarter customer support on the go. Scott Anthony explains what 10-foot noodles have to do with competitive advantage.
 Around the Country: Free Power 
In New York, a restaurant abolishes tips, residents get free power-charging stations, and apartment dwellers may have to start collecting food scraps for composting. Delta and JetBlue lead airline service rankings (and this hedgehog leads an adventurous life). The Congressional Budget Office estimates that the Senate's immigration bill would reduce the deficit by $197 billion over 10 years. An Entrepreneur Center opens near Nashville.
 Around the World: Giant Balloons 
Joe Weisenthal thinks it's hard to look at these photos from Indonesia and Brazil "and not worry about a much bigger emerging market blow-up." British students get fooled by a "Star Wars" prank. Diana Ransom explains what it takes to start up in Turkey after the recent protests. China's factory activity hits a nine-month low, job prospects for China's grads are getting bleaker and a credit bureau says China's credit bubble is unprecedented in modern world history (but that'snot deterring General Motors from investing $11 billion there). Google's plans to beam the Internet from giant balloons sent to the stratosphere could help small businesses in rural parts of Asia.
 Ideas: Better Air 
A Zipcar-style service for airplanes is introduced. A teenage scientist designs a sustainable and cost-effective biofilter to remove chemical pollutants from indoor air streams. Here's how to add the integers from 1 to N quickly.
 Technology: Bug Bounties 
General Electric is hiring thousands of engineers to build an "industrial Web." Here are three cloud-based surveillance options that will help keep an eye on your business. A survey finds many small businesses are in the dark about the potential impact of a data breach. With "bug bounties," Microsoft extends an olive branch to the hacker community. Two of the biggest names in 3-D printing merge. Erica Ogg reports that everybody loves the new MacBook Air's battery. A search engine alternative to Google hits 3.1 million queries. Google, Office 365 and Dropbox lead in cloud growth.
 Tweet of the Week 
@danmartell - Free advice is often overpriced.
 The Week's Best Quotes 
 Margie Warrell says you should take the risk because the odds are better than you think: "We are neurologically wired to exaggerate how bad things could be if our plans didn't work out, and we fail to appreciate our ability to intervene to ward off further impact."
 Andrew Dowling explains why parents make better entrepreneurs: "Anyone launching themselves into a new business quickly finds they're dealing with lots of things which are unfamiliar to them. From the moment you discover you're going to become a parent, your trajectory is remarkably similar. Your life suddenly changes in a big way forever. You find yourself dealing with concepts and terminology you've never had an interest in before. And once your kids are born, you'd better get used to dealing with change, because that's what your life is going to consist of for the next couple of decades."
 This Week's Question: Do you think it's harder to run a business today than it was five years ago?
 Gene Marks owns the Marks Group , a Bala Cynwyd, Pa., consulting firm that helps clients with customer relationship management. You can follow him on Twitter. 

        
This Week in Small Business: Analytics and Hashtags
        
This Week in Small Business: Cronuts!
        
This Week in Small Business: Gordon Ramsay Calling!
        
This Week in Small Business: The Van Halen Principle
        
This Week in Small Business: Apple, Gold and Cupcakes

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); INFLATION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); SOCIAL MEDIA (78%); BUSINESS PLANS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (78%); TAX FRAUD (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); REAL ESTATE (72%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (70%); US PRESIDENTS (60%) Entrepreneurship; Small Business; Start-ups; United States Economy; Dashboard

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (84%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%); MEN'S WEARHOUSE INC (51%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (84%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%); MW (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (84%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%); NAICS448210 SHOE STORES (51%); NAICS448150 CLOTHING ACCESSORIES STORES (51%); NAICS448110 MEN'S CLOTHING STORES (51%); SIC5699 MISC. APPAREL & ACCESSORY STORES (51%); SIC5661 SHOE STORES (51%); SIC5611 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING & ACCESSORY STORES (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%); BEN BERNANKE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOURI, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2013



788 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1444 words

HEADLINE: Mass Layoffs at a Top-Flight Law Firm

BYLINE: PETER LATTMAN


HIGHLIGHT: The prestigious law firm Weil, Gotshal &#038; Manges is laying off a large number of lawyers and support staff, as well as reducing the pay of some partners, a move that underscores the difficulties facing the legal profession. 

 BODY:
Layoffs are a brutal reality of corporate America. During fallow periods, publicly traded companies, including the big banks, routinely cull their ranks. The country's largest law firms, by contrast, have historically taken a kinder, gentler approach, rarely firing employees en masse.
The news on Monday that Weil, Gotshal & Manges, among the nation's most prestigious and profitable law firms, was laying off a large number of lawyers and support staff while also reducing the pay of some of its partners, sent shock waves through the industry and underscored the financial difficulties facing the legal profession.
 Sixty junior lawyers, known at firms as associates, lost their jobs. That amounts to roughly 7 percent of Weil's associates. Annual compensation will be reduced for roughly 30 of the firm's 300 partners, in many cases by hundreds of thousands of dollars. And 110 non-lawyers - roughly half of them secretaries - were let go.
The leadership of Weil, a New York-based firm of 1,200 lawyers that counts General Electric and Sanofi as marquee clients and handled the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers, informed its employees Monday morning about the reductions. 
"While we have been able to avoid these actions in the past, and it is very painful from a human perspective, the management committee believes that these actions are essential now to enable our firm to continue to excel and retain its historic profitability in the new normal," Barry M. Wolf, Weil's executive partner, wrote in a firmwide e-mail.
The "new normal," in the view of Weil's management and echoed by legal industry experts, is that the market for high-end legal services is continuing to shrink. Dan DiPietro, chairman of the law firm group at Citi Private Bank, said he believed that the profession could experience a wave of job cuts. He said that there were too many lawyers at the country's largest firms, estimating the excess capacity at as much as 10 percent of the lawyer population.
"My guess is that a good number of firms have been thinking about right-sizing and waiting for someone to provide them cover and we'll see more of these moves," Mr. DiPietro said. "As difficult as layoffs are, it seems that they will be necessary for some firms to get in sync with the current market dynamics."
Those market dynamics have shifted starkly from the boom years leading up to the financial crisis. Pre-2008, profitability exploded and the number of lawyers grew at the country's top firms as demand increased about 4 percent a year. But demand has been flat to down for the last five years, according to several industry reports, and shows little sign of picking up.
At Weil, whose partners make, on average, about $2.2 million a year, the situation is unique. During the depths of the downturn, the firm avoided the layoffs that some other firms were forced to make. That was largely because of the firm's pre-eminent bankruptcy practice, which advised both General Motors and Lehman on their Chapter 11 filings. Those assignments, particularly Lehman, generated hundreds of millions of dollars in fees, not only in bankruptcy work, but also from the reams of litigation that flowed from them.
In an interview last week, Mr. Wolf said that Weil's leaders thought that as the crisis-related assignments wound down and the economy recovered, the firm would see a pickup in its "transactional business," the lucrative work of advising corporations and private equity firms on acquisitions, as well as performing legal work for stock and bond offerings. But transactional activity at Weil remains soft and has not returned to anywhere near pre-2008 levels.
Nevertheless, the firm has performed well relative to its peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg and Thomson Reuters. In 2012, Weil was ranked No. 1 in private equity representations globally. It ranked No. 2 in domestic mergers and acquisitions last year and has maintained that position in 2013, advising on deals like the American Airlines merger with US Airways. Still, Mr. Wolf said, there was not enough work to keep Weil's army of lawyers sufficiently busy.
"Our market share has been improving, but the market has been shrinking," Mr. Wolf said.
Mr. Wolf, a corporate lawyer who joined Weil in 1984 straight out of law school, said that while the decision to cut associates and staff was personally distressing for him and the management committee, there was little disagreement that it was the right one.
"We believe that this not just a cycle but that the supply-demand balance is out of whack across the industry," he said. "If we thought this was a cycle and our business was going to pick up meaningfully next year, we would not be doing this."
Monday was a grim day at Weil, with partners informing associates of their dismissals in one-on-one meetings. Each gets six months of severance. Partners subject to salary reductions have already been informed by firm management. (There are no partner cuts because under Weil's partnership agreement, partners can be fired only for cause.)
The mass layoffs are the first in the 82-year history of Weil, which has 21 offices worldwide and headquarters in the General Motors building, one of New York's most coveted business addresses. Last year, the firm posted revenue of about $1.2 billion, and its profits per partner ranked 17th of all firms nationally.
In Monday's e-mail, Weil said it was taking the action "from a position of strength." It said that it had zero debt and a fully financed pension plan with more than $500 million in assets. It also noted that its partners did not have long-term compensation guarantees.
By listing those attributes, Weil appeared to be pre-emptively addressing comparisons to Dewey & LeBoeuf, a firm of a similar size that dissolved last year. Dewey collapsed after disappointing profits and a heavy debt load forced it to slash partners' salaries. Many Dewey partners had multiyear, multimillion-dollar contracts. When they did not get paid their guarantee, they fled, crippling the firm.
Now, a year after Dewey's demise, most industry specialists view the firm as an outlier, a victim of gross financial mismanagement. Still, some of Dewey's problems partly derived from the same industry trends facing successful firms like Weil.
Among the main factors hurting law firm profitability is that corporate clients have become stingy. Until recently, pricing pressure barely existed for premium legal services. Decades ago, clients would receive a bill with only a lump sum and the statement "for professional services rendered."
But today, big corporations, facing pressures of their own, have clamped down on legal expenses. They have beefed up their in-house legal staffs and perform much of the work themselves. They are demanding that for routine assignments like document discovery, work be sent to outsourcing firms and contract lawyers rather than given to expensive associates. And they ask for discounts or capped fees at places like Weil, which charge more than $1,000 an hour for some partners' work.
Steven J. Harper, a retired partner at Kirkland & Ellis and author of "The Lawyer Bubble: A Profession in Crisis" (Basic Books, 2013), said that Weil's move highlighted the inexorable long-term trend: big firm partnerships were now nothing more than bottom-line, profit-maximizing businesses.
Profits per partner - a statistic highlighted annually in the closely watched American Lawyer magazine rankings - have become an unhealthy obsession, Mr. Harper said. Driving this fixation is the frenzied lateral hiring market, in which firms are poaching lawyers with big books of business from rivals. Firms fear that if profitability wanes, they will lose their stars.
"The culture at most of these large law firms is that you must maintain astronomical levels of partner earnings in order to keep your top talent," Mr. Harper said. "Cutting staff is one way to do that."
Mr. Wolf of Weil said that while layoffs would help the firm's profits, the move was not motivated by reducing expenses to enrich partners.
"This is not about cost-cutting but about the future of the firm and strategically positioning us for the next five years," Mr. Wolf said.
Several industry experts applauded the move. Peter Zeughauser, a law firm consultant, said that many firms were in denial about slack demand, and Weil's cutbacks could pressure them into getting leaner.
"We have been telling our clients about these economic realities for some time," Mr. Zeughauser said. "Weil is a bellwether firm, and this will be a real wake-up call."

        
Debevoise & Plimpton Drops Trusts and Estates Practice
        
Prosecutor in Insider Crackdown Leaving U.S. Attorney's Office

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (92%); LAWYERS (92%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (92%); LEGAL SERVICES (92%); DISMISSALS (79%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (79%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); LAW FIRM PROFITABILITY (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%) Layoffs and Job Reductions; legal profession; Weil Gotshal & Manges; Legal Profession; Legal/Regulatory; Revolving Door

COMPANY: WEIL GOTSHAL & MANGES LLP (90%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (55%); SANOFI SA (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Weil Gotshal & Manges

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); GNE (PAR) (55%); GEC (LSE) (55%); GE (SWX) (55%); GE (NYSE) (55%); SNY (NYSE) (55%); SANF (BIT) (55%); SAN (PAR) (55%); GCVRZ (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (90%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2013



789 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 6493 words

HEADLINE: Live Analysis of Supreme Court Decision on Affirmative Action

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: The Supreme Court ruled on Thursday on Fisher v. University of Texas at Austin, a case concerning affirmative action. Times reporters and editors are analyzing the decision and its implications, as well as the public&#8217;s reaction to it. 

 BODY:
 The Supreme Court ruled Monday that lower courts did not apply a sufficiently high level of scrutiny to the University of Texas' use of race in admissions decisions, sending the case back to one of those lower courts to be reconsidered.
 3:39 P.M. | Four Takeaways From the Affirmative-Action Decision 
The Supreme Court did not reject the University of Texas at Austin's affirmative-action program on Monday, but it did ask a lower court to take a newly tough look at it. Adam Liptak, our Supreme Court correspondent, called the decision "simultaneously modest and significant" and said it was "likely to give rise to a wave of challenges to admissions programs at colleges and universities nationwide."
As part of The New York Times's coverage of the case, Fisher v. University of Texas, we posed four questions to several experts, of varying views, to analyze the decision. You can read the full answers on our blog, but here are four takeaways from their answers: 
1.The ruling was a surprise. Most court watchers expected a narrow, five-member majority, with Justice Anthony Kennedy writing a decision that the four other conservative-leaning justices joined. "We were not expecting a 7-1 vote," said Ada Meloy, general counsel at the American Council on Education, which represents college and university presidents. Only Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg dissented (and Justice Elena Kagan recused herself because of her prior involvement in the case as an Obama administration lawyer).
"What's remarkable is how broad a coalition agreed to handle the case in this moderate way," said Richard A. Primus, a law professor at the University of Michigan. Liberals can take comfort that the court did nothing to alter affirmative action immediately. Conservatives can take comfort that the justices held that courts were not currently applying sufficiently tough scrutiny to affirmative-action programs.
2.The court appears to have effectively raised the legal bar for affirmative-action programs in future cases. The justices held that colleges and universities were now too quick to used race-based admissions programs without searching for other ways to build diverse classes. In the process, colleges and universities may be violating the court's prior ruling that any programs based on race must pass a legal test known as strict scrutiny.
"When an affirmative action plan gets challenged in court, the court must be satisfied that there are 'no workable race-neutral alternatives' to achieve the educational benefits of diversity," Sheryll Cashin, a former Supreme Court clerk who is now a professor at Georgetown University, wrote.
The fact that two liberal justices, Stephen Breyer and Sonia Sotomayor, were willing to sign on to such a decision was one of the more surprising aspects of the ruling, said Richard D. Kahlenberg of the Century Foundation.
3.The most obvious alternatives to race-based affirmative action revolve around economic class. In such programs, universities would give students credit for coming from a more disadvantaged background - taking into account not just income, as many colleges now claim they do, but also potentially wealth, neighborhood and single-parent status. Such programs would almost certainly pass constitutional muster and would help many black and Latino applicants, but class-based programs are also more expensive than race-based programs, many of which result in predominantly wealthy student bodies.
"The new higher standard is likely to discourage universities from using race and opening themselves up to litigation," said Mr. Kahlenberg, an advocate of class-based affirmative action. "If that occurs, the decision will be a boon to low-income and working-class students of all racial backgrounds who have to date been effectively shut out of selective colleges."
4. Justice Kennedy has changed his argument over the last decade. In the 2003 Grutter case, which upheld the University of Michigan's affirmative-action program, he wrote an aggressive dissent. It is hard to square Texas's affirmative-action program with that dissent, but his majority decision in Fisher did not throw out the Texas program.
"Justice Kennedy seems to have made his peace with Grutter in part by putting his gloss on it," Ms. Cashin wrote. "He is very comfortable with the idea that universities have a compelling interest in the educational benefits of diversity. He reaffirmed that they even deserve deference on why diversity produces educational benefits. He made it clear, however, that any use of race must be narrowly tailored and that judges, not universities, get to decide what narrow tailoring means."
- David Leonhardt 
 3:12 P.M. | Fisher, U.T. Austin Respond to Court's Ruling 
Abigail Fisher, the young woman who sued the University of Texas over its affirmative action policy after she was denied admission, spoke briefly at the American Enterprise Institute in Washington on Monday.
"I am grateful to the justices," Ms. Fisher said, for the 7-to-1 decision sending the case back to the Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit for further consideration under a tougher standard of review. "I'm just very honored and grateful to have participated in this," she said. "I am very confident U.T. won't be able to use race as a factor in admissions in the future."
At a news conference, she stood with her parents, Richard and Rosalie Fisher, and Edward Blum, the man who has been the driving force behind the case. Though he is not a lawyer, he bankrolls litigation that pursues conservative ends through his Project on Fair Representation.
Mr. Blum said the decision "begins the restoration of the original colorblind principles to our nation's civil rights laws," and would hasten the end of racial preferences in schools across the nation. Of the court's requirement that racial distinctions in admissions be subject to strict scrutiny, he said, "It is very unlikely that most institutions will be able to overcome these hurdles."
Some groups favoring affirmative action claimed at least a partial victory because the court left the Texas program in place. Mr. Blum said, however, that while he wished the court had taken the step of invalidating the program, "if they are excited about this ruling, I think it's gravely misplaced."
Ms. Fisher, who now lives in Austin, Tex., and says she plays in a county orchestra and loves to bowl, agreed. "They gave us everything we asked for," she said with a diffident smile.
The lesson Ms. Fisher took away from the experience of taking a case all the way to the Supreme Court? "Stick by your ideals, even if it means some personal sacrifice."
William Powers Jr., president of the University of Texas at Austin, provided a different view of the decision in a statement released Monday afternoon.
"Today's ruling has no impact on admissions decisions we have already made or any immediate impact on our holistic admissions policy," the statement said.
- John Schwartz 
 2:35 P.M. | Courthouse Crowd Still Waiting for Main Event 
Affirmative action has historically been an explosive issue in American society. But in front of the Supreme Court, the rainbow-festooned crowd had little interest in the ruling on colorblind admissions issued by the justices Monday. Dozens of gay rights advocates waved flags and held signs in support of same-sex marriage as they waited to hear decisions on two cases that would affect gays and lesbians across the nation.
But the court did not rule on the federal Defense of Marriage Act or Proposition 8, California's gay marriage ban.
"I came up specifically for this. I am really disappointed. It just shows a lack of courage on the court's part," said Bob Kunst, a gay rights advocate from Miami. "Why keep the country divided? The majority of the country is with us, let's come together."
Many seemed to be detached from the proceedings inside the building and said they were not aware the court did not make a decision on gay marriage.
The Supreme Court is in its final week of session and has only a few days left to issue decisions on pending cases. The court said Monday that it would issue more decisions Tuesday morning at 10.
- Erin Banco 
 1:55 P.M. | Four Questions for Ada Meloy 
 Ada Meloy is the general counsel at the American Council on Education, which represents college and university presidents. She previously spent 28 years at New York University's Office of Legal Counsel. 
 Q. How would you summarize the decision in a single sentence? 
 A. The Supreme Court today affirmed the educational benefits of diversity on college and university campuses, allowing institutions to continue considering race and ethnicity as one factor in the admissions process as long as they show their plans are precisely tailored and necessary to achieve their goals.
 Q. Did anything in in it - or in the justices' votes - surprise you? 
 A. We were not expecting a 7-to-1 vote, regardless of what decision the court reached. While not surprised, we were gratified that the court affirmed the compelling government interest in diversity on college and university campuses.
 Q. How broad of an effect do you think the ruling is likely to have? Will it affect admissions policies anywhere other than the University of Texas, and will it affect areas outside higher education? 
 A. The Fisher decision has the potential to affect any college or university that considers race and ethnicity in the admissions process. The ruling does seem very much focused on higher education, but like any Supreme Court ruling it could set a precedent that will impact other parts of our society.
 Q. What's next for affirmative action? 
 A. It will take time to analyze the Fisher ruling and its impact on the use of race and ethnicity in the college admissions process. But college and universities that do use race and ethnicity as a factor should review their admissions policies to make sure they can document why that is necessary to achieving their goals.
- The New York Times 
 1:48 P.M. | Four Questions for Lee Cheng 
 Lee Cheng is a co-founder and secretary of the Asian American Legal Foundation, which was established in 1994. He was the co-author of an amicus brief in Fisher v. the University of Texas at Austin, arguing against the university's affirmative-action program. 
 Q. How would you summarize the decision in a single sentence? 
 A. The expansion of the Grutter doctrine has been halted: the court ruled today that universities like the University of Texas cannot discriminate on the basis of race, no matter how well-intentioned, and that the means and effects of all race-based programs must be subjected to the highest standards of review by courts.
 Q. Did anything in in it - or in the justices' votes - surprise you? 
The court's decision in Fisher v. Texas was not surprising. It was the most likely decision possible among the various options - the type of Solomonic baby splitting that Supreme Court justices seem to love.
We were surprised by the size of the majority in this decision, and the absence of more concurrences and dissents. We did not
expect Justices Breyer or Sotomator to join the majority, but are glad that so many of the justices were willing to recognize that all race-based programs should be questioned and challenged to determine whether they are indeed sufficiently designed to and actually
achieve their purported societal benefits.
 Q. How broad of an effect do you think the ruling is likely to have? Will it affect admissions policies anywhere other than the University of Texas, and will it affect areas outside higher education? 
 A. The court ruled today that all race-based programs, whether in higher education or not, must be, more than ever, subjected to the highest level of judicial scrutiny. I can see challenges to programs across the country in higher and even K-12 education, and eventually in employment and contracting.
 Q. What's next for affirmative action? 
 A. While the use of race as one of many factors to consider continues to be permitted, as it was in Grutter, the court arguably enhanced the level of scrutiny for all programs using race as a consideration based on the means used and the effects of such programs. It's like the court is theoretically allowing race to be considered but also requiring accountability for all programs using race.
In terms of tangible effects, the decision likely means two things: a) the expansion of the number and sophistication of programs
that use race in admissions, and b) additional litigation challenging race-based programs across the country.
- The New York Times 
 1:02 P.M. | Four Questions for Desiree C. Boykin 
 Desiree C. Boykin is the interim general counsel and assistant secretary of the United Negro College Fund. She is a co-author of a recent amicus brief to the Supreme Court on Fisher v. University of Texas at Austin, arguing for the university's affirmative-action program.

 Q. How would you summarize the decision in a single sentence? 
A. In requiring the lower court to follow the standards set forth in Grutter, the Supreme Court has preserved its earlier holding that a
diverse learning environment is a compelling interest that benefits all students and our country as a whole.
 Q. Did anything in in it - or in the justices' votes - surprise you? 
 A. No. In remanding the case, the court is requiring that its prior rulings in Grutter and Bakke are followed and that the appropriate burden of proof is applied.
 Q. How broad of an effect do you think the ruling is likely to have? Will it affect admissions policies anywhere other than the University of Texas, and will it affect areas outside higher education? 
 A. Any impact to admissions policies will not be known until after the lower court's review.
 Q. What's next for affirmative action? 
 A. We believe that the University of Texas at Austin's admissions policy is a carefully crafted policy that will ultimately be upheld by the courts.
- The New York Times 
 12:50 P.M. | Four Questions for Roger Clegg 
 Roger Clegg is the president and general counsel of the Center for Equal Opportunity, a conservative organization. From 1982 to 1993, he held a number of positions at the United States Department of Justice, and he argued three cases before the United States Supreme Court. 
 Q. How would you summarize the decision in a single sentence? 
 A. Strict means strict.
 Q. Did anything in in it - or in the justices' votes - surprise you? 
 A. That we had to wait so long for a decision that, while ultimately positive, is still quite limited and brief.
 Q. How broad of an effect do you think the ruling is likely to have? 
 A. The combination of the ruling and the run-up to the ruling - in which it has become clear how increasingly unpopular and discredited racial preferences in admissions are - will result in some serious soul-searching among university presidents on whether "diversity" is really worth the price of racial discrimination. At least, I hope so.
 Q. Will it affect admissions policies anywhere other than the University of Texas, and will it affect areas outside higher education? 
 A. Certainly the soul-searching I describe should take place at all universities that use racial preferences. It might cause for some corporate soul-searching, too, since unfortunately corporate America has bought into the diversity-via-discrimination approach in a big way.
 Q. What's next for affirmative action? 
Preferential treatment based on race, ethnicity, and sex - the sort of "affirmative action" that is objectionable as a policy and legal matter - will continue its steady march to the dustbin of history. And deservedly so.
- The New York Times 
 12:44 P.M. | Four Questions for Richard D. Kahlenberg 
 Richard D. Kahlenberg is a senior fellow at the Century Foundation. He is the author of "The Remedy," a 1996 book about affirmative action, as well as a co-author of the recent report "A Better Affirmative Action." 
 Q. How would you summarize the decision in a single sentence? 
 A. By making it much harder for universities to employ racial preferences, the Supreme Court has paved the way for a new affirmative action based on economic disadvantage.
 Q. Did anything in in it - or in the justices' votes - surprise you? 
 A. I was surprised that the court sent the case back to the lower court and surprised that Justices Breyer and Sotomayor were willing to sign on to a tougher standard - that on the question of narrow tailoring "the university receives no deference," and the requirement that "judges must ultimately be satisfied that no workable race-neutral alternative would produce the educational benefits of diversity."
 Q. How broad of an effect do you think the ruling is likely to have? Will it affect admissions policies anywhere other than the University of Texas, and will it affect areas outside higher education? 
 A. The effect will be national in scope, influencing the admissions policies at both public and private colleges and universities across the country. In the past universities have relied heavily on racial preferences and given almost no consideration to economic disadvantage. By requiring universities to first pursue "race-neutral" alternatives like economic status, the Supreme Court could effectively flip the equation. If universities want racial diversity, they will first have to try to achieve it by using alternative means such as economic status.
 Q. What's next for affirmative action? 
 A. While the Supreme Court left the door open a crack for using race (in cases where "no workable race-neutral alternatives" are available), economic affirmative action will likely come to predominate in college admissions over time. In the 2007 Supreme Court striking down racial integration plans in Louisville and Seattle in 2007, Justice Kennedy described ways in which race could still be used, but virtually all school districts pursuing integration shifted to emphasizing socioeconomic status rather than race. The new higher standard is likely to discourage universities from using race and opening themselves up to litigation. If that occurs, the decision will be a boon to low-income and working-class students of all racial backgrounds who have to date been effectively shut out of selective colleges.
- The New York Times 
 12:36 P.M. | How Minorities Have Fared in States With Bans 
In states that have banned affirmative action in college admissions, prominent public universities have tended to enroll fewer black and Hispanic freshmen. This interactive graphic shows which prominent colleges have been the most successful at keeping pace with demographic changes. View the Graphic
- Graphics Desk 
 12:13 P.M. | Four Questions for Sheryll Cashin 
 Sheryll Cashin is a law professor at Georgetown University and a former law clerk to Thurgood Marshall. Next year, she will publish a book entitled "Place Not Race: Creating Opportunity for All After Affirmative Action." 
 Q. How would you summarize the decision in a single sentence? 
 A. After nearly a year of debate and anxiety on both sides of the question, the court in a 7-to-1 decision largely maintained the status quo, i.e., universities have a compelling interest in pursuing diversity but they cannot use rigid racial quotas.
 Q. Did anything in in it - or in the justices' votes - surprise you? 
 A. I was surprised that the court left intact its decision in Grutter (the Michigan affirmative case). Although Justice Kennedy dissented in that case, writing for the majority today he took Grutter and Bakke as givens. Justice Kennedy seems to have made his peace with Grutter in part by putting his gloss on it. He is very comfortable with the idea that universities have a compelling interest in the educational benefits of diversity. He reaffirmed that they even deserve deference on why diversity produces educational benefits. He made it clear, however, that any use of race must be narrowly tailored and that judges, not universities, get to decide what narrow tailoring means. His bottom line was this: when an affirmative action plan gets challenged in court, the court must be satisfied that there are "no workable race-neutral alternatives" to achieve the educational benefits of diversity.
 Q. How broad of an effect do you think the ruling is likely to have? Will it affect admissions policies anywhere other than the University of Texas, and will it affect areas outside higher education? 
 A. In the near term I think many universities are breathing a sigh of relief. In theory, a race-based affirmative action plan can still survive strict scrutiny, although Justice Kennedy has placed his thumb on the scale against it in demanding that universities that are sued must make a showing that there were no viable race-neutral alternatives. I think universities will be reviewing their admissions plans carefully over the summer and watching to see what happens to the University of Texas' plan on remand. The decision is more important for U.T. than other universities; U.T. could lose on remand.
 Q. What's next for affirmative action? 
 A. There will always be another Abigail Fisher. Opponents in this case did not ask the court to overrule Grutter. There are four votes to overrule Grutter, but Kennedy has indicated in this opinion that he is not inclined to do it. I think opponents of affirmative action will keep chipping away at it through litigation and in the political sphere, lobbying Republicans in state legislatures to adopt bans. We are up to eight state bans, and this opinion may galvanize more political opposition. I also think university admissions offices will continue experimenting with race-neutral alternatives that help create racial and economic diversity in a less divisive way. Hopefully the anxiety about lawsuits will cause universities to revisit admissions policies that are exclusionary, like standardized tests and legacy admissions.
- The New York Times 
 11:57 A.M. | Decision Lands on a Busy Day at the White House 
White House officials in every administration like to brag about being able to multitask during days when the news hits them from all sides.
This is one of those days.
National security officials are chasing Edward Snowden, the National Security Agency leaker, across the globe. The immigration battle in the Senate is entering its final week. The president is preparing for a huge climate policy announcement on Tuesday. Diplomatic officials are bracing for the possibility that Nelson Mandela might die in hours before the president's trip to the African continent.
Oh, and the Supreme Court on Monday morning issued a ruling on affirmative action programs at the nation's colleges, the first of what could be landmark rulings in four cases this week that have broad implications for the nation.
"The president has to be able to walk, chew gum, juggle and ride a unicycle all at the same time," Robert Gibbs, Mr. Obama's first press secretary, said once.
A statement from the West Wing on the affirmative action ruling is expected soon (though the White House counsel's office, no doubt, is in the same position as everyone else: trying to figure out exactly what it means).
The affirmative action statement would follow a series of late-night communications by the national security staff at the White House on Mr. Snowden, who appears not to have boarded the flight to Cuba that everyone expected him to be on Monday morning.
And later Monday, White House officials are holding a briefing for reporters to preview the president's remarks on climate change. Mr. Obama is expected to announce his intention to propose new regulations limiting carbon dioxide emissions from existing power plants.
Meanwhile, the president's travel and protocol offices are waiting to see what happens with Mr. Mandela, who has been in a hospital for three weeks, battling a long-standing lung infection. On Sunday, South African officials said his condition had become critical.
Mr. Obama is slated to leave Wednesday for his weeklong, three-country trip that includes two days in South Africa. If Mr. Mandela dies ahead of the trip, it is unclear how that could change Mr. Obama's travel plans.
For the moment, White House officials are just going to have to be flexible. Or, as Jay Carney, the president's current press secretary, said recently, "We can walk and chew gum at the same time."
- Michael D. Shear 
 11:36 A.M. | Four Questions for Richard Primus 
 Richard Primus is a professor specializing in constitutional law at the University of Michigan Law School. He is a former Rhodes Scholar and served as a clerk to Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg. 
 Q. How would you summarize the decision in a single sentence? 
 A. The Michigan model of affirmative action - upheld by the court in 2003 - remains valid for now, and the court will watch universities closely to make sure they don't go an inch beyond it.
 Q. Did anything in in it - or in the justices' votes - surprise you?
 A. Many people predicted that a 5-to-4 conservative majority would use this case to eliminate affirmative action. Those predictions were probably based more on fear (from the left) and wishful thinking (from the right) than on careful consideration of what the center of this court - Justice Kennedy - has said in the past. The result in this case is perfectly Kennedyesque: universities may consider race to ensure diverse student bodies, but only if they really need to, and Justice Kennedy's court will be in charge of deciding whether they really need to.
What's remarkable is how broad a coalition agreed to handle the case in this moderate way. Sometime in the future, the ultimate question of the validity of race-based affirmative action may have to be confronted again. But for now, even most of the court's conservative justices declined to use this occasion to say that they believe affirmative action to be flatly unconstitutional.
 Q. How broad of an effect do you think the ruling is likely to have? Will it affect admissions policies anywhere other than the University of Texas, and will it affect areas outside higher education?
 A. The ruling will change little. It reaffirms the status quo, with emphasis on the court's own role as arbiter. After a lot of buildup and drama, this round ends with a whimper and not a bang.
 If we believed that the court was in the business of applying precedent scrupulously and cautiously, this shouldn't surprise us. The big story here is the gap between the public's expectation of big news and the quiet, technical resolution the court chose. For which there can be two explanations: Either the public has come to expect the court to act even more ideologically than it does, or else affirmative action touches a nerve raw enough that we expect it to produce fireworks. Or both.
 Q. What's next for affirmative action? 

A. There will be more rounds of argument about whether "race-neutral alternatives" can produce diversity. "Race-neutral" needs to be in quotation marks, because people have very different ideas about what counts as race-neutral. (Is class-based affirmative action race-neutral if it is intended to produce racial diversity?) Nobody can predict where those arguments will end up, and nobody knows what the court will look like when the issue comes back - which it eventually will. For now, though, this decision will change little about either what universities do in practice or how people more broadly talk about affirmative action. The conversation goes on with just a minor bump.
- The New York Times 
 11:21 A.M. | Bans on Racial Preferences Have Had Mixed Results 
Though Monday's decision will most likely have few immediate implications for affirmative action programs around the country, it may represent the start of a new wave of challenges to the use of race in admissions decisions.
The following states have already banned affirmative action, a move that blocks consideration of race or ethnicity in admission to state colleges: California, Washington, Florida, Michigan, Arizona, New Hampshire, Nebraska and Oklahoma.
In most states, the bans have been followed by an initial sharp drop in enrollment of black, Hispanic and Native American students. The states have responded with a range of policies intended to boost diversity through race-blind means.
But the results have been mixed, both racially and socioeconomically. The affected state universities vary widely in the racial mix of their state populations, their selectivity, their levels of support from state government and how aggressively they have pursued diversity programs.
- Richard P&#233;rez-Pe&#241;a 
 11:14 A.M. | Four Questions for Stuart Taylor 
 Stuart Taylor Jr. has covered the Supreme Court and other matters for National Journal, The New York Times, Newsweek, The American Lawyer and Legal Times. Last year, he and Richard Sander published "Mismatch: How Affirmative Action Hurts Students It's Intended to Help, and Why Universities Won't Admit It." 
 Q: How would you summarize the decision in a single sentence? 
 A. This is an extremely narrow decision reversing the lower court for giving too much credence to the "good faith" of the University of Texas in its use of race and for failing to consider race-neutral alternatives.
 Q. Did anything in in it - or in the justices' votes - surprise you? 
 A. Yes. It was widely expected to be a 5-to-3 decision (with Justice Kagan recused) cutting back on universities' ability to use racial preferences. Instead, Justice Kennedy's majority opinion did not change the law at all.
 Q. How broad of an effect do you think the ruling is likely to have? Will it affect admissions policies anywhere other than the University of Texas, and will it affect areas outside higher education? 
 A. The effect will be very narrow, and the lower court's options include reaffirming its support for the Texas racial-preference plan that the Supreme Court had agreed to review.[#x200b]
 Q. What's next for affirmative action?

 A. The Supreme Court will hear arguments this fall in another big case, Schuette v. Coalition to Defend Affirmative Action, involving a 2006 ballot measure amending the Michigan constitution to prohibit (among other things) racial preferences in state university admissions. The United States Court of Appeals for the 6th Circuit struck down that provision by a party-line vote, with eight Democratic appointees outvoting seven Republican appointees. The majority reasoned that it violated the Constitution's guarantee of equal protection of the laws for a state constitutional amendment to require equal treatment of all racial groups, because the ballot measure had made it harder for racial minorities than for other groups (such as alumni children) to win preferential treatment. Dissenters countered that "a state does not deny equal treatment by mandating it," in the words of Judge Jeffrey Sutton.
- The New York Times 
 11:09 A.M. | Video: Affirmative Action's Contentious History 
- The New York Times 
 10:51 A.M. | Court Calls for More Scrutiny 
The Supreme Court ruled Monday that lower courts did not apply a sufficiently high level of scrutiny to the University of Texas at Austin's use of race in admissions decisions, sending the case back to one of those lower courts to be reconsidered.
The decision will most likely have few immediate implications for affirmative action programs around the country, including in Texas. But it may represent the start of a new wave of challenges to the use of race in admissions decisions.
In a 7-to-1 decision, with Justice Anthony Kennedy writing the majority opinion, the court ruled that the lower court did not use a legal standard known as strict scrutiny to assess the university's program.
"Strict scrutiny," the opinion read, "does not permit a court to accept a school's assertion that its admissions process uses race in a permissible way without closely examining how the process works in practice."
Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg was the lone dissenter in the case, Fisher v. the University of Texas.
Read the decision.
- The New York Times 
 10:47 A.M. | On Affirmative Action, Focus Is on Public Schools 
All of the major rulings on affirmative action, from Bakke in 1978 to Hopwood in 1996 to Grutter and Gratz in 2003 to Fisher today, have involved public universities.
But legal experts say it is only a matter of time before similar challenges are filed against private colleges, as well - and they are likely to succeed.
Plaintiffs have challenged affirmative action as a violation of the 14th Amendment, whose equal protection clause bars discrimination by government, but not by private parties. But Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 prohibits discrimination by any entity that uses federal funds - which describes almost all colleges and universities.
Many private college administrators say they already operate under the assumption that the restrictions the Supreme Court has placed on public universities also apply to them.
- Richard P&#233;rez-Pe&#241;a 
 10:43 A.M. | Public Is Split Along Racial and Partisan Lines 
The public is deeply divided across racial and partisan lines on affirmative action, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News poll conducted early this month.
The poll found that more than half of Americans, 53 percent, favor affirmative action programs for minorities in hiring, promoting and college admissions, while 38 percent oppose them. (Other polls in the past that have asked about giving minorities "preference" have shown less support.)
Three-quarters of black respondents support such programs, but fewer than half of whites agree. And while support is at 75 percent among Democrats, it drops to 51 percent among independents and falls even further to just 37 percent among Republicans.
Among those who favor such programs, most say the main reason is to increase diversity, rather than to make up for discrimination.
- Dalia Sussman 
 10:33 A.M. | Read the Decision 
Supreme Court Decision in Fisher v. University of Texas (PDF)
Supreme Court Decision in Fisher v. University of Texas (Text)
- The New York Times 
 10:29 A.M. | Inside the Decision 
The court's decision seems to instruct lower courts on how to handle cases concerning affirmative action.
From SCOTUSblog:
Here's the money quote: "The reviewing court must ultimately be satisfied that no workable race-neutral alternatives would produce the educational benefits of diversity."
- The New York Times 
 10:28 A.M. | History of Affirmative Action and Important Cases 
Texas was one of the first states to have a ban on affirmative action, and though the prohibition was later overturned, it has had a lasting effect on higher education in that state, and an influence on the Fisher case.
In March 1996, in Hopwood v. Texas, the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals struck down affirmative action, in a case involving admission to the University of Texas Law School. The ruling held sway in the states of that circuit, Texas, Louisiana and Mississippi.
It was in response to that ruling that Texas adopted the practice of admitting all students in the top 10 percent of their high school classes to the state's universities, including the flagship at Austin.

Other Cases 
The End of Quotas: Regents of the University of California v. Bakke, 1978
The high court ruled that racial quotas in the college admissions process violate the Equal Protection Clause, a part of the 14th Amendment. But, it said, race can be a factor in admission decisions. That said, California has the oldest lasting ban on affirmative action, adopted by voters in November 1996 as Proposition 209.
The Michigan Cases: Gratz v. Bollinger and Grutter v. Bollinger, 2003
How exactly can a university factor in race? Not with points, the court ruled. Jennifer Gratz sued the University of Michigan when she was not admitted as an undergraduate in 1995. The college assigned each applicant points. Race could offer up to 20 points. Leadership and service, up to five. With a vote of six to three, the court said that system violated the Equal Protection Clause.
By a vote of five to four, however, the justices rejected the parallel argument of Barbara Grutter. In 1996, she was denied admission from the University of Michigan's Law School, which, wrote Sandra Day O'Connor, used a "narrowly tailored use of race in admissions decisions to further a compelling interest in obtaining the educational benefits that flow from a diverse student body."
- Richard P&#233;rez-Pe&#241;a and Sarah Wheaton 
 10:19 A.M. | Court Rules in Affirmative Action Case 
The Supreme Court issued a ruling on Monday in Fisher v. University of Texas at Austin, a case concerning affirmative action.
From SCOTUSblog:
The opinion by Kennedy. The Fifth Circuit is vacated and remanded. The holding is because the Fifth Circuit did not hold the university to the demanding burden of strict scrutiny articulated in Grutter and Bakke, its decision affiming the district court's grant of summary judgment was incorrect.
There is one dissent. It is 7-1. Ginsburg dissents alone. There are separate concurring opinions by Scalia and Thomas. Kagan was recused.
- The New York Times 
 9:32 A.M. | Explaining The Times's Coverage of the Decision 
We realize that people will be eager to know what the ruling means as soon as it comes out (and you can read the decision yourself when it is posted on the court's Web site). But we also want to point out that the immediate descriptions of any ruling may not be very meaningful.
For one thing, a ruling could be complicated, as were last year's health care ruling and the 2000 Bush v. Gore ruling, and not amenable to instant summarizing. The court could even announce one portion of a decision - especially on same-sex marriage, given the two different cases - before it releases another portion.
Dozens of Times journalists, in Washington, New York and around the country, are covering the ruling and the reaction to it by the public and those affected by it. At the center of the coverage is Adam Liptak, the Supreme Court reporter (and a lawyer) of The Times, who will be in court to hear the ruling.
We plan to explain the ruling the moment we feel comfortable with its basic meaning - which could be almost immediately. We promise not to bombard you with guesswork or unintelligible legal technicalities. The Times will also run blog posts from the legal experts at SCOTUSblog on our own site, as well as ask other outside experts to help readers understand the decision. Once the fundamentals of the ruling are clear, Times reporters and editors will be analyzing it in real time, on our live blog dedicated to the ruling and on stories appearing across our digital platforms. We will also post updates to Twitter on @thecaucus and @nytimes, and post selected reactions from readers.
We expect to have Mr. Liptak's initial story about any ruling by late morning or shortly after noon, not long after the court's session has ended. Whatever happens Thursday, we also expect at least one major ruling to come next week.
Thanks for being with us.
- The New York Times 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SUPREME COURTS (95%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (94%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (93%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (92%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); APPEALS (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EDUCATION (90%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (89%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); CONSERVATISM (72%); LIBERALISM (72%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (65%) News from the Court; Supreme Court

PERSON: RUTH BADER GINSBURG (58%); SONIA SOTOMAYOR (58%); ELENA KAGAN (58%); ANTHONY KENNEDY (58%); STEPHEN BREYER (58%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (94%) TEXAS, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2013



790 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: Deals in the Works Involving 2 Luxury Retailers

BYLINE: MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED


HIGHLIGHT: Neiman Marcus filed to go public on Monday, more than eight years after agreeing to go private in a sale to the investment firms TPG Capital and Warburg Pincus. 

 BODY:
High-end fashion still has plenty of appeal for Wall Street as two of the biggest luxury brands tested their worth to the market.
The private equity owners of Neiman Marcus, one of the country's most upscale department stores and the owner of Bergdorf Goodman in Manhattan, on Monday filed for an initial public offering, the first step toward becoming a publicly traded company.
 And the owner of Lord & Taylor is exploring a potential bid for Saks Inc., the 90-year-old department store chain, according to someone who had been briefed on the matter but was not authorized to speak publicly. 
Interest in both companies highlights how the market for Chanel dresses and Louis Vuitton handbags has stayed strong, despite the financial crisis. Revenue at the two retailers hovers just below 2008 levels.
The filing of Neiman Marcus has been long expected, as private equity firms are moving to sell their holdings to take advantage of relatively robust stock markets. The retailer, known for selling wares like Christian Louboutin heels and $100,000 aquatic jet packs, agreed to sell itself to the investment firms TPG Capital and Warburg Pincus more than eight years ago.
TPG and Warburg Pincus had explored selling the company before, including in 2007, but held on as the weakening economy began to roil nearly every segment of the retail industry. In a low, the company reported a $668 million loss in 2009, immediately after the financial crisis.
Neiman Marcus, which operates 41 stores around the country and other brands, has rebounded since then. On Monday, the retailer disclosed that it earned $140.1 million last year, in addition to $4.3 billion in revenue, its best fiscal year since before the 2008 crisis. For the 39 weeks that ended April 27, it made a $160.8 million profit, up 6 percent from the period last year.
The prospectus was light on other details, including how many shares the company plans to sell, at what price and on what stock exchange it will list.
Saks may find itself joining forces with other department stores with rich histories. Among the potential bidders for the chain is said to be Richard A. Baker, the shopping mall developer-turned-retailing mogul who owns both Lord & Taylor and Hudson's Bay.
Among other potential buyers or investors are Kohlberg Kravis Roberts, the private equity giant, and the Qatar Investment Authority, a sovereign wealth fund for the Middle Eastern emirate, the person briefed on the matter said.
The destinies of Neiman Marcus and Saks at one point could have been intertwined. K.K.R. approached Neiman Marcus's owners this year with a preliminary proposal to merge the retailer with Saks, a person briefed on the discussions said previously, potentially creating one of the biggest upscale department stores in the country. But TPG and Warburg Pincus were cool to the idea.
For Mr. Baker, chief executive of Hudson's Bay, the parent of The Bay stores in Canada and Lord & Taylor in the United States, an acquisition of Saks would cap an extraordinary run of deals. In 2006, at the market peak, he acquired Lord & Taylor for $1.2 billion. He later acquired Hudson's Bay and combined the two into one company, which posted about $4.1 billion in revenue during its 2012 fiscal year.
Last November, Mr. Baker orchestrated an initial public offering of Hudson's Bay, listing the company on the Toronto Stock Exchange.
Adding Saks to his portfolio holds great appeal to Mr. Baker, 47, who lives in Greenwich, Conn., and whose business is based in New York. In the United States, the flagship stores of Saks and Lord & Taylor are 11 blocks apart on Fifth Avenue. And there is also growth potential in Canada for both the 43 Saks Fifth Avenue department stores, and the 66 stores that are part of its discount arm, Off 5th.
If Mr. Baker bids for Saks, presumably real estate could be part of the attraction. After acquiring Hudson's Bay, he struck a complex deal to sell the rights to leases on an underperforming division of Hudson's Bay to Target for about $1.8 billion. The deal enabled him to pay down a large amount of debt.
Mr. Baker's interest in Saks was first reported on Monday by Women's Wear Daily.

        
Caesars Blinds Market With Science
        
Chipping Away at the Glass Ceiling in Private Equity

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LUXURY GOODS (92%); PRIVATE EQUITY (92%); RETAILERS (91%); CLOTHING LABELS (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); GOING PRIVATE (90%); DEPARTMENT STORES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (88%); FASHION DESIGNERS (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (77%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (73%); SHOPPING CENTER DEVELOPMENT (60%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Initial Public Offerings; Neiman Marcus Group; TPG Capital; Warburg Pincus; I.P.O./Offerings; Mergers & Acquisitions; Private Equity; Retail/Leisure

COMPANY: NEIMAN MARCUS GROUP INC (92%); SAKS INC (84%); KKR & CO LP (80%); LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (70%); TPG CAPITAL LP (58%); WARBURG PINCUS LLC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Neiman Marcus Group; TPG Capital; Warburg Pincus

TICKER: SKS (NYSE) (84%); KKR (NYSE) (80%); MC (PAR) (70%); LVMH (BIT) (70%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (80%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (80%); NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (70%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (70%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (58%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (55%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (55%); SIC6726 UNIT INVESTMENT TRUSTS, FACE-AMOUNT CERTIFICATE OFFICES, & CLOSED-END MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES (55%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); QATAR (79%); MIDDLE EAST (69%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2013



791 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 3810 words

HEADLINE: Live Analysis of Supreme Court Decision on Affirmative Action

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: The Supreme Court ruled on Thursday on Fisher v. University of Texas at Austin, a case concerning affirmative action. Times reporters and editors are analyzing the decision and its implications, as well as the public&#8217;s reaction to it. 

 BODY:
 The Supreme Court ruled Monday that lower courts did not apply a sufficiently high level of scrutiny to the University of Texas' use of race in admissions decisions, sending the case back to one of those lower courts to be reconsidered.
 12:44 P.M. | Four Questions for Richard D. Kahlenberg 
 Richard D. Kahlenberg is a senior fellow at The Century Foundation. He is author of "The Remedy," a 1996 book about affirmative action, as well as a coauthor of the recent report "A Better Affirmative Action." 
 Q. How would you summarize the decision in a single sentence? 
 A. By making it much harder for universities to employ racial preferences, the Supreme Court has paved the way for a new affirmative action based on economic disadvantage.
 Q. Did anything in in it - or in the justices' votes - surprise you? 
 A. I was surprised that the court sent the case back to the lower court and surprised that Justices Breyer and Sotomayor were willing to sign on to a tougher standard - that on the question of narrow tailoring "the university receives no deference," and the requirement that "judges must ultimately be satisfied that no workable race-neutral alternative would produce the educational benefits of diversity."
 Q. How broad of an effect do you think the ruling is likely to have? Will it affect admissions policies anywhere other than the University of Texas, and will it affect areas outside higher education? 
 A. The effect will be national in scope, influencing the admissions policies at both public and private colleges and universities across the country. In the past universities have relied heavily on racial preferences and given almost no consideration to economic disadvantage. By requiring universities to first pursue "race-neutral" alternatives like economic status, the Supreme Court could effectively flip the equation. If universities want racial diversity, they will first have to try to achieve it by using alternative means such as economic status.
 Q. What's next for affirmative action? 
 A. While the Supreme Court left the door open a crack for using race (in cases where "no workable race-neutral alternatives" are available) economic affirmative action will likely come to predominate in college admissions over time. In the 2007 Supreme Court striking down racial integration plans in Louisville and Seattle in 2007, Justice Kennedy described ways in which race could still be used, but virtually all school districts pursuing integration shifted to emphasizing socioeconomic status rather than race. The new higher standard is likely to discourage universities from using race and opening themselves up to litigation. If that occurs, the decision will be a boon to low income and working class students of all racial backgrounds who have to date been effectively shut out of selective colleges.
- The New York Times 
 12:36 P.M. | How Minorities Have Fared in States With Bans 
In states that have banned affirmative action in college admissions, prominent public universities have tended to enroll fewer black and Hispanic freshmen. This interactive graphic shows which prominent colleges have been the most successful at keeping pace with demographic changes. View the Graphic
- Graphics Desk 
 12:13 P.M. | Four Questions for Sheryll Cashin 
 Sheryll Cashin is a law professor at Georgetown and former law clerk to Thurgood Marshall. Next year, she will publish a book entitled, "Place Not Race: Creating Opportunity for All After Affirmative Action." 
 Q. How would you summarize the decision in a single sentence? 
 A. After nearly a year of debate and anxiety on both sides of the question, the court in a 7 to 1 decision largely maintained the status quo, i.e. universities have a compelling interest in pursuing diversity but they cannot use rigid racial quotas.
 Q. Did anything in in it - or in the justices' votes - surprise you? 
 A. I was surprised that the court left intact its decision in Grutter (the Michigan affirmative case). Although Justice Kennedy dissented in that case, writing for the majority today he took Grutter and Bakke as givens. Justice Kennedy seems to have made his peace with Grutter in part by putting his gloss on it. He is very comfortable with the idea that universities have a compelling interest in the educational benefits of diversity. He reaffirmed that they even deserve deference on why diversity produces educational benefits. He made it clear, however, that any use of race must be narrowly tailored and that judges, not universities, get to decide what narrow tailoring means. His bottom line was this: when an affirmative action plan gets challenged in court, the court must be satisfied that there are "no workable race-neutral alternatives" to achieve the educational benefits of diversity.
 Q. How broad of an effect do you think the ruling is likely to have? Will it affect admissions policies anywhere other than the University of Texas, and will it affect areas outside higher education? 
 A. In the near term I think many universities are breathing a sigh of relief. In theory, a race-based affirmative action plan can still survive strict scrutiny although Justice Kennedy has placed his thumb on the scale against it in demanding that universities that are sued must make a showing that there were no viable race-neutral alternatives. I think universities will be reviewing their admissions plans carefully over the summer and watching to see what happens to the University of Texas's plan on remand. The decision is more important for U.T. than other universities; U.T. could lose on remand.
 Q. What's next for affirmative action? 
 A. There will always be another Abigail Fisher. Opponents in this case did not ask the court to overrule Grutter. There are four votes to overrule Grutter but Kennedy has indicated in this opinion that he is not inclined to do it. I think opponents of affirmative action will keep chipping away at it through litigation and in the political sphere, lobbying Republicans in state legislators to adopt bans. We are up to eight state bans, and this opinion may galvanize more political opposition. I also think university admissions offices will continue experimenting with race-neutral alternatives that help create racial and economic diversity in a less divisive way. Hopefully the anxiety about lawsuits will cause universities to revisit admissions policies that are exclusionary, like standardized tests and legacy admissions.
- The New York Times 
 11:57 A.M. | Decision Lands on a Busy Day at the White House 
White House officials in every administration like to brag about being able to multitask during days when the news hits them from all sides.
This is one of those days.
National security officials are chasing Edward Snowden, the National Security Agency leaker, across the globe. The immigration battle in the Senate is entering its final week. The president is preparing for a huge climate policy announcement on Tuesday. Diplomatic officials are bracing for the possibility that Nelson Mandela might die in hours before the president's trip to the African continent.
Oh, and the Supreme Court on Monday morning issued a ruling on affirmative action programs at the nation's colleges, the first of what could be landmark rulings in four cases this week that have broad implications for the nation.
"The president has to be able to walk, chew gum, juggle and ride a unicycle all at the same time," Robert Gibbs, Mr. Obama's first press secretary, said once.
A statement from the West Wing on the affirmative action ruling is expected soon (though the White House counsel's office, no doubt, is in the same position as everyone else: trying to figure out exactly what it means).
The affirmative action statement would follow a series of late-night communications by the national security staff at the White House on Mr. Snowden, who appears not to have boarded the flight to Cuba that everyone expected him to be on Monday morning.
And later Monday, White House officials are holding a briefing for reporters to preview the president's remarks on climate change. Mr. Obama is expected to announce his intention to propose new regulations limiting carbon dioxide emissions from existing power plants.
Meanwhile, the president's travel and protocol offices are waiting to see what happens with Mr. Mandela, who has been in a hospital for three weeks, battling a long-standing lung infection. On Sunday, South African officials said his condition had become critical.
Mr. Obama is slated to leave Wednesday for his weeklong, three-country trip that includes two days in South Africa. If Mr. Mandela dies ahead of the trip, it is unclear how that could change Mr. Obama's travel plans.
For the moment, White House officials are just going to have to be flexible. Or, as Jay Carney, the president's current press secretary, said recently, "We can walk and chew gum at the same time."
- Michael D. Shear 
 11:36 A.M. | Four Questions for Richard Primus 
 Richard Primus is a professor specializing in constitutional law at the University of Michigan Law School. He is a former Rhodes Scholar and served as a clerk to Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg. 
 Q. How would you summarize the decision in a single sentence? 
 A. The Michigan model of affirmative action - upheld by the court in 2003 - remains valid for now, and the court will watch universities closely to make sure they don't go an inch beyond it.
 Q. Did anything in in it - or in the justices' votes - surprise you?
 A. Many people predicted that a 5-to-4 conservative majority would use this case to eliminate affirmative action. Those predictions were probably based more on fear (from the left) and wishful thinking (from the right) than on careful consideration of what the center of this court - Justice Kennedy - has said in the past. The result in this case is perfectly Kennedyesque: universities may consider race to ensure diverse student bodies, but only if they really need to, and Justice Kennedy's court will be in charge of deciding whether they really need to.
What's remarkable is how broad a coalition agreed to handle the case in this moderate way. Sometime in the future, the ultimate question of the validity of race-based affirmative action may have to be confronted again. But for now, even most of the court's conservative justices declined to use this occasion to say that they believe affirmative action to be flatly unconstitutional.
 Q. How broad of an effect do you think the ruling is likely to have? Will it affect admissions policies anywhere other than the University of Texas, and will it affect areas outside higher education?
 A. The ruling will change little. It reaffirms the status quo, with emphasis on the court's own role as arbiter. After a lot of buildup and drama, this round ends with a whimper and not a bang.
 If we believed that the court was in the business of applying precedent scrupulously and cautiously, this shouldn't surprise us. The big story here is the gap between the public's expectation of big news and the quiet, technical resolution the court chose. For which there can be two explanations: Either the public has come to expect the court to act even more ideologically than it does, or else affirmative action touches a nerve raw enough that we expect it to produce fireworks. Or both.
 Q. What's next for affirmative action? 

A. There will be more rounds of argument about whether "race-neutral alternatives" can produce diversity. "Race-neutral" needs to be in quotation marks, because people have very different ideas about what counts as race-neutral. (Is class-based affirmative action race-neutral if it is intended to produce racial diversity?) Nobody can predict where those arguments will end up, and nobody knows what the court will look like when the issue comes back - which it eventually will. For now, though, this decision will change little about either what universities do in practice or how people more broadly talk about affirmative action. The conversation goes on with just a minor bump.
- The New York Times 
 11:21 A.M. | Bans on Racial Preferences Have Had Mixed Results 
Though Monday's decision will most likely have few immediate implications for affirmative action programs around the country, it may represent the start of a new wave of challenges to the use of race in admissions decisions.
The following states have already banned affirmative action, a move that blocks consideration of race or ethnicity in admission to state colleges: California, Washington, Florida, Michigan, Arizona, New Hampshire, Nebraska and Oklahoma.
In most states, the bans have been followed by an initial sharp drop in enrollment of black, Hispanic and Native American students. The states have responded with a range of policies intended to boost diversity through race-blind means.
But the results have been mixed, both racially and socioeconomically. The affected state universities vary widely in the racial mix of their state populations, their selectivity, their levels of support from state government and how aggressively they have pursued diversity programs.
- Richard P&#233;rez-Pe&#241;a 
 11:14 A.M. | Four Questions for Stuart Taylor 
 Stuart Taylor Jr. has covered the Supreme Court and other matters for National Journal, The New York Times, Newsweek, The American Lawyer and Legal Times. Last year, he and Richard Sander published "Mismatch: How Affirmative Action Hurts Students It's Intended to Help, and Why Universities Won't Admit It." 
 Q: How would you summarize the decision in a single sentence? 
 A. This is an extremely narrow decision reversing the lower court for giving too much credence to the "good faith" of the University of Texas in its use of race and for failing to consider race-neutral alternatives.
 Q. Did anything in in it - or in the justices' votes - surprise you? 
 A. Yes. It was widely expected to be a 5-to-3 decision (with Justice Kagan recused) cutting back on universities' ability to use racial preferences. Instead, Justice Kennedy's majority opinion did not change the law at all.
 Q. How broad of an effect do you think the ruling is likely to have? Will it affect admissions policies anywhere other than the University of Texas, and will it affect areas outside higher education? 
 A. The effect will be very narrow, and the lower court's options include reaffirming its support for the Texas racial-preference plan that the Supreme Court had agreed to review.[#x200b]
 Q. What's next for affirmative action?

 A. The Supreme Court will hear arguments this fall in another big case, Schuette v. Coalition to Defend Affirmative Action, involving a 2006 ballot measure amending the Michigan constitution to prohibit (among other things) racial preferences in state university admissions. The United States Court of Appeals for the 6th Circuit struck down that provision by a party-line vote, with eight Democratic appointees outvoting seven Republican appointees. The majority reasoned that it violated the Constitution's guarantee of equal protection of the laws for a state constitutional amendment to require equal treatment of all racial groups, because the ballot measure had made it harder for racial minorities than for other groups (such as alumni children) to win preferential treatment. Dissenters countered that "a state does not deny equal treatment by mandating it," in the words of Judge Jeffrey Sutton.
- The New York Times 
 11:09 A.M. | Video: Affirmative Action's Contentious History 
- The New York Times 
 10:51 A.M. | Court Calls for More Scrutiny 
The Supreme Court ruled Monday that lower courts did not apply a sufficiently high level of scrutiny to the University of Texas at Austin's use of race in admissions decisions, sending the case back to one of those lower courts to be reconsidered.
The decision will most likely have few immediate implications for affirmative action programs around the country, including in Texas. But it may represent the start of a new wave of challenges to the use of race in admissions decisions.
In a 7-to-1 decision, with Justice Anthony Kennedy writing the majority opinion, the court ruled that the lower court did not use a legal standard known as strict scrutiny to assess the university's program.
"Strict scrutiny," the opinion read, "does not permit a court to accept a school's assertion that its admissions process uses race in a permissible way without closely examining how the process works in practice."
Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg was the lone dissenter in the case, Fisher v. the University of Texas.
Read the decision.
- The New York Times 
 10:47 A.M. | On Affirmative Action, Focus Is on Public Schools 
All of the major rulings on affirmative action, from Bakke in 1978 to Hopwood in 1996 to Grutter and Gratz in 2003 to Fisher today, have involved public universities.
But legal experts say it is only a matter of time before similar challenges are filed against private colleges, as well - and they are likely to succeed.
Plaintiffs have challenged affirmative action as a violation of the 14th Amendment, whose equal protection clause bars discrimination by government, but not by private parties. But Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 prohibits discrimination by any entity that uses federal funds - which describes almost all colleges and universities.
Many private college administrators say they already operate under the assumption that the restrictions the Supreme Court has placed on public universities also apply to them.
- Richard P&#233;rez-Pe&#241;a 
 10:43 A.M. | Public Is Split Along Racial and Partisan Lines 
The public is deeply divided across racial and partisan lines on affirmative action, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News poll conducted early this month.
The poll found that more than half of Americans, 53 percent, favor affirmative action programs for minorities in hiring, promoting and college admissions, while 38 percent oppose them. (Other polls in the past that have asked about giving minorities "preference" have shown less support.)
Three-quarters of black respondents support such programs, but fewer than half of whites agree. And while support is at 75 percent among Democrats, it drops to 51 percent among independents and falls even further to just 37 percent among Republicans.
Among those who favor such programs, most say the main reason is to increase diversity, rather than to make up for discrimination.
- Dalia Sussman 
 10:33 A.M. | Read the Decision 
 Supreme Court Decision in Fisher v. University of Texas (PDF)
Supreme Court Decision in Fisher v. University of Texas (Text)
- The New York Times 
 10:29 A.M. | Inside the Decision 
The court's decision seems to instruct lower courts on how to handle cases concerning affirmative action.
From SCOTUSblog:
Here's the money quote: "The reviewing court must ultimately be satisfied that no workable race-neutral alternatives would produce the educational benefits of diversity."
- The New York Times 
 10:28 A.M. | Texas Has History on Affirmative Action 
Texas was one of the first states to have a ban on affirmative action, and though the prohibition was later overturned, it has had a lasting effect on higher education in that state, and an influence on the Fisher case.
In March 1996, in Hopwood v. Texas, the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals struck down affirmative action, in a case involving admission to the University of Texas Law School. The ruling held sway in the states of that circuit, Texas, Louisiana and Mississippi.
It was in response to that ruling that Texas adopted the practice of admitting all students in the top 10 percent of their high school classes to the state's universities, including the flagship at Austin.
But in 2003, in Grutter v. Bollinger, a case involving the University of Michigan, the Supreme Court overturned the Hopwood decision. That allowed state colleges in the Fifth Circuit to return to a limited consideration of race, which the University of Texas did. But Texas kept the percentage approach in place as the primary means of admitting students. A secondary avenue, which considers race among many factors, was added, and is at issue in the Fisher case.
California has the oldest lasting ban on affirmative action, adopted by voters in November 1996 as Proposition 209.
- Richard P&#233;rez-Pe&#241;a 
 10:19 A.M. | Court Rules in Affirmative Action Case 
The Supreme Court issued a ruling on Monday in Fisher v. University of Texas at Austin, a case concerning affirmative action.
From SCOTUSblog:
The opinion by Kennedy. The Fifth Circuit is vacated and remanded. The holding is because the Fifth Circuit did not hold the university to the demanding burden of strict scrutiny articulated in Grutter and Bakke, its decision affiming the district court's grant of summary judgment was incorrect.
There is one dissent. It is 7-1. Ginsburg dissents alone. There are separate concurring opinions by Scalia and Thomas. Kagan was recused.
- The New York Times 
 9:32 A.M. | Explaining The Times's Coverage of the Decision 
We realize that people will be eager to know what the ruling means as soon as it comes out (and you can read the decision yourself when it is posted on the court's Web site). But we also want to point out that the immediate descriptions of any ruling may not be very meaningful.
For one thing, a ruling could be complicated, as were last year's health care ruling and the 2000 Bush v. Gore ruling, and not amenable to instant summarizing. The court could even announce one portion of a decision - especially on same-sex marriage, given the two different cases - before it releases another portion.
Dozens of Times journalists, in Washington, New York and around the country, are covering the ruling and the reaction to it by the public and those affected by it. At the center of the coverage is Adam Liptak, the Supreme Court reporter (and a lawyer) of The Times, who will be in court to hear the ruling.
We plan to explain the ruling the moment we feel comfortable with its basic meaning - which could be almost immediately. We promise not to bombard you with guesswork or unintelligible legal technicalities. The Times will also run blog posts from the legal experts at SCOTUSblog on our own site, as well as ask other outside experts to help readers understand the decision. Once the fundamentals of the ruling are clear, Times reporters and editors will be analyzing it in real time, on our live blog dedicated to the ruling and on stories appearing across our digital platforms. We will also post updates to Twitter on @thecaucus and @nytimes, and post selected reactions from readers.
We expect to have Mr. Liptak's initial story about any ruling by late morning or shortly after noon, not long after the court's session has ended. Whatever happens Thursday, we also expect at least one major ruling to come next week.
Thanks for being with us.
- The New York Times 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (97%); SUPREME COURTS (94%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (93%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (92%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); APPEALS (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EDUCATION (90%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (90%); WRITERS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); LITIGATION (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (65%) News from the Court; Supreme Court

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (92%) TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2013



792 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 4752 words

HEADLINE: Live Analysis of Supreme Court Decision on Affirmative Action

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: The Supreme Court ruled on Thursday on Fisher v. University of Texas at Austin, a case concerning affirmative action. Times reporters and editors are analyzing the decision and its implications, as well as the public&#8217;s reaction to it. 

 BODY:
 The Supreme Court ruled Monday that lower courts did not apply a sufficiently high level of scrutiny to the University of Texas' use of race in admissions decisions, sending the case back to one of those lower courts to be reconsidered.
 1:48 P.M. | Four Questions for Lee Cheng 
 Lee Cheng is a co-founder and secretary of the Asian American Legal Foundation, which was established in 1994. He was the co-author of an amicus brief in Fisher v. the University of Texas at Austin, arguing against the university's affirmative-action program. 
 Q. How would you summarize the decision in a single sentence? 
 A. The expansion of the Grutter doctrine has been halted: the court ruled today that universities like the University of Texas cannot discriminate on the basis of race, no matter how well-intentioned, and that the means and effects of all race-based programs must be subjected to the highest standards of review by courts.
 Q. Did anything in in it - or in the justices' votes - surprise you? 
The court's decision in Fisher v. Texas was not surprising. It was the most likely decision possible among the various options - the type of Solomonic baby splitting that Supreme Court justices seem to love.
We were surprised by the size of the majority in this decision, and the absence of more concurrences and dissents. We did not
expect Justices Breyer or Sotomator to join the majority, but are glad that so many of the justices were willing to recognize that all race-based programs should be questioned and challenged to determine whether they are indeed sufficiently designed to and actually
achieve their purported societal benefits.
 Q. How broad of an effect do you think the ruling is likely to have? Will it affect admissions policies anywhere other than the University of Texas, and will it affect areas outside higher education? 
 A. The court ruled today that all race-based programs, whether in higher education or not, must be, more than ever, subjected to the highest level of judicial scrutiny. I can see challenges to programs across the country in higher and even K-12 education, and eventually in employment and contracting.
 Q. What's next for affirmative action? 
 A. While the use of race as one of many factors to consider continues to be permitted, as it was in Grutter, the court arguably enhanced the level of scrutiny for all programs using race as a consideration based on the means used and the effects of such programs. It's like the court is theoretically allowing race to be considered but also requiring accountability for all programs using race.
In terms of tangible effects, the decision likely means two things: (a) the expansion of the number and sophistication of programs
that use race in admissions, and (b) additional litigation challenging race-based programs across the country.
- The New York Times 
 1:02 P.M. | Four Questions for Desiree C. Boykin 
 Desiree C. Boykin is the interim general counsel assistant secretary of the United Negro College Fund. She is a co-author of a recent amicus brief to the Supreme Court on Fisher v. University of Texas at Austin, arguing for the university's affirmative-action program.

 Q. How would you summarize the decision in a single sentence? 
A. In requiring the lower Court to follow the standards set forth in Grutter, the Supreme Court has preserved its earlier holding that a
diverse learning environment is a compelling interest that benefits all students and our country as a whole.
 Q. Did anything in in it - or in the justices' votes - surprise you? 
 A. No. In remanding the case, the Court is requiring that its prior rulings in Grutter and Bakke are followed and that the appropriate burden of proof is applied.
 Q. How broad of an effect do you think the ruling is likely to have? Will it affect admissions policies anywhere other than the University of Texas, and will it affect areas outside higher education? 
 A. Any impact to admissions policies will not be known until after the lower court's review.
 Q. What's next for affirmative action? 
 A. We believe that the University of Texas at Austin's admissions policy is a carefully crafted policy that will ultimately be upheld by the Courts.
- The New York Times 
 12:50 P.M. | Four Questions for Roger Clegg 
 Roger Clegg is the president and general counsel of the Center for Equal Opportunity, a conservative organization. From 1982 to 1993, he held a number of positions at the U.S. Department of Justice and he argued three cases before the United States Supreme Court. 
 Q. How would you summarize the decision in a single sentence? 
 A. Strict means strict.
 Q. Did anything in in it - or in the justices' votes - surprise you? 
 A. That we had to wait so long for a decision that, while ultimately positive, is still quite limited and brief.
 Q. How broad of an effect do you think the ruling is likely to have? 
 A. The combination of the ruling and the run-up to the ruling - in which it has become clear how increasingly unpopular and discredited racial preferences in admissions are - will result in some serious soul-searching among university presidents on whether "diversity" is really worth the price of racial discrimination. At least, I hope so.
 Q. Will it affect admissions policies anywhere other than the University of Texas, and will it affect areas outside higher education? 
 A. Certainly the soul-searching I describe should take place at all universities that use racial preferences. It might cause for some corporate soul-searching, too, since unfortunately corporate America has bought into the diversity-via-discrimination approach in a big way.
 Q. What's next for affirmative action? 
Preferential treatment based on race, ethnicity, and sex - the sort of"affirmative action" that is objectionable as a policy and legal matter - will continue its steady march to the dustbin of history. And deservedly so.
- The New York Times 
 12:44 P.M. | Four Questions for Richard D. Kahlenberg 
 Richard D. Kahlenberg is a senior fellow at The Century Foundation. He is author of "The Remedy," a 1996 book about affirmative action, as well as a coauthor of the recent report "A Better Affirmative Action." 
 Q. How would you summarize the decision in a single sentence? 
 A. By making it much harder for universities to employ racial preferences, the Supreme Court has paved the way for a new affirmative action based on economic disadvantage.
 Q. Did anything in in it - or in the justices' votes - surprise you? 
 A. I was surprised that the court sent the case back to the lower court and surprised that Justices Breyer and Sotomayor were willing to sign on to a tougher standard - that on the question of narrow tailoring "the university receives no deference," and the requirement that "judges must ultimately be satisfied that no workable race-neutral alternative would produce the educational benefits of diversity."
 Q. How broad of an effect do you think the ruling is likely to have? Will it affect admissions policies anywhere other than the University of Texas, and will it affect areas outside higher education? 
 A. The effect will be national in scope, influencing the admissions policies at both public and private colleges and universities across the country. In the past universities have relied heavily on racial preferences and given almost no consideration to economic disadvantage. By requiring universities to first pursue "race-neutral" alternatives like economic status, the Supreme Court could effectively flip the equation. If universities want racial diversity, they will first have to try to achieve it by using alternative means such as economic status.
 Q. What's next for affirmative action? 
 A. While the Supreme Court left the door open a crack for using race (in cases where "no workable race-neutral alternatives" are available) economic affirmative action will likely come to predominate in college admissions over time. In the 2007 Supreme Court striking down racial integration plans in Louisville and Seattle in 2007, Justice Kennedy described ways in which race could still be used, but virtually all school districts pursuing integration shifted to emphasizing socioeconomic status rather than race. The new higher standard is likely to discourage universities from using race and opening themselves up to litigation. If that occurs, the decision will be a boon to low income and working class students of all racial backgrounds who have to date been effectively shut out of selective colleges.
- The New York Times 
 12:36 P.M. | How Minorities Have Fared in States With Bans 
In states that have banned affirmative action in college admissions, prominent public universities have tended to enroll fewer black and Hispanic freshmen. This interactive graphic shows which prominent colleges have been the most successful at keeping pace with demographic changes. View the Graphic
- Graphics Desk 
 12:13 P.M. | Four Questions for Sheryll Cashin 
 Sheryll Cashin is a law professor at Georgetown and former law clerk to Thurgood Marshall. Next year, she will publish a book entitled, "Place Not Race: Creating Opportunity for All After Affirmative Action." 
 Q. How would you summarize the decision in a single sentence? 
 A. After nearly a year of debate and anxiety on both sides of the question, the court in a 7 to 1 decision largely maintained the status quo, i.e. universities have a compelling interest in pursuing diversity but they cannot use rigid racial quotas.
 Q. Did anything in in it - or in the justices' votes - surprise you? 
 A. I was surprised that the court left intact its decision in Grutter (the Michigan affirmative case). Although Justice Kennedy dissented in that case, writing for the majority today he took Grutter and Bakke as givens. Justice Kennedy seems to have made his peace with Grutter in part by putting his gloss on it. He is very comfortable with the idea that universities have a compelling interest in the educational benefits of diversity. He reaffirmed that they even deserve deference on why diversity produces educational benefits. He made it clear, however, that any use of race must be narrowly tailored and that judges, not universities, get to decide what narrow tailoring means. His bottom line was this: when an affirmative action plan gets challenged in court, the court must be satisfied that there are "no workable race-neutral alternatives" to achieve the educational benefits of diversity.
 Q. How broad of an effect do you think the ruling is likely to have? Will it affect admissions policies anywhere other than the University of Texas, and will it affect areas outside higher education? 
 A. In the near term I think many universities are breathing a sigh of relief. In theory, a race-based affirmative action plan can still survive strict scrutiny although Justice Kennedy has placed his thumb on the scale against it in demanding that universities that are sued must make a showing that there were no viable race-neutral alternatives. I think universities will be reviewing their admissions plans carefully over the summer and watching to see what happens to the University of Texas's plan on remand. The decision is more important for U.T. than other universities; U.T. could lose on remand.
 Q. What's next for affirmative action? 
 A. There will always be another Abigail Fisher. Opponents in this case did not ask the court to overrule Grutter. There are four votes to overrule Grutter but Kennedy has indicated in this opinion that he is not inclined to do it. I think opponents of affirmative action will keep chipping away at it through litigation and in the political sphere, lobbying Republicans in state legislators to adopt bans. We are up to eight state bans, and this opinion may galvanize more political opposition. I also think university admissions offices will continue experimenting with race-neutral alternatives that help create racial and economic diversity in a less divisive way. Hopefully the anxiety about lawsuits will cause universities to revisit admissions policies that are exclusionary, like standardized tests and legacy admissions.
- The New York Times 
 11:57 A.M. | Decision Lands on a Busy Day at the White House 
White House officials in every administration like to brag about being able to multitask during days when the news hits them from all sides.
This is one of those days.
National security officials are chasing Edward Snowden, the National Security Agency leaker, across the globe. The immigration battle in the Senate is entering its final week. The president is preparing for a huge climate policy announcement on Tuesday. Diplomatic officials are bracing for the possibility that Nelson Mandela might die in hours before the president's trip to the African continent.
Oh, and the Supreme Court on Monday morning issued a ruling on affirmative action programs at the nation's colleges, the first of what could be landmark rulings in four cases this week that have broad implications for the nation.
"The president has to be able to walk, chew gum, juggle and ride a unicycle all at the same time," Robert Gibbs, Mr. Obama's first press secretary, said once.
A statement from the West Wing on the affirmative action ruling is expected soon (though the White House counsel's office, no doubt, is in the same position as everyone else: trying to figure out exactly what it means).
The affirmative action statement would follow a series of late-night communications by the national security staff at the White House on Mr. Snowden, who appears not to have boarded the flight to Cuba that everyone expected him to be on Monday morning.
And later Monday, White House officials are holding a briefing for reporters to preview the president's remarks on climate change. Mr. Obama is expected to announce his intention to propose new regulations limiting carbon dioxide emissions from existing power plants.
Meanwhile, the president's travel and protocol offices are waiting to see what happens with Mr. Mandela, who has been in a hospital for three weeks, battling a long-standing lung infection. On Sunday, South African officials said his condition had become critical.
Mr. Obama is slated to leave Wednesday for his weeklong, three-country trip that includes two days in South Africa. If Mr. Mandela dies ahead of the trip, it is unclear how that could change Mr. Obama's travel plans.
For the moment, White House officials are just going to have to be flexible. Or, as Jay Carney, the president's current press secretary, said recently, "We can walk and chew gum at the same time."
- Michael D. Shear 
 11:36 A.M. | Four Questions for Richard Primus 
 Richard Primus is a professor specializing in constitutional law at the University of Michigan Law School. He is a former Rhodes Scholar and served as a clerk to Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg. 
 Q. How would you summarize the decision in a single sentence? 
 A. The Michigan model of affirmative action - upheld by the court in 2003 - remains valid for now, and the court will watch universities closely to make sure they don't go an inch beyond it.
 Q. Did anything in in it - or in the justices' votes - surprise you?
 A. Many people predicted that a 5-to-4 conservative majority would use this case to eliminate affirmative action. Those predictions were probably based more on fear (from the left) and wishful thinking (from the right) than on careful consideration of what the center of this court - Justice Kennedy - has said in the past. The result in this case is perfectly Kennedyesque: universities may consider race to ensure diverse student bodies, but only if they really need to, and Justice Kennedy's court will be in charge of deciding whether they really need to.
What's remarkable is how broad a coalition agreed to handle the case in this moderate way. Sometime in the future, the ultimate question of the validity of race-based affirmative action may have to be confronted again. But for now, even most of the court's conservative justices declined to use this occasion to say that they believe affirmative action to be flatly unconstitutional.
 Q. How broad of an effect do you think the ruling is likely to have? Will it affect admissions policies anywhere other than the University of Texas, and will it affect areas outside higher education?
 A. The ruling will change little. It reaffirms the status quo, with emphasis on the court's own role as arbiter. After a lot of buildup and drama, this round ends with a whimper and not a bang.
 If we believed that the court was in the business of applying precedent scrupulously and cautiously, this shouldn't surprise us. The big story here is the gap between the public's expectation of big news and the quiet, technical resolution the court chose. For which there can be two explanations: Either the public has come to expect the court to act even more ideologically than it does, or else affirmative action touches a nerve raw enough that we expect it to produce fireworks. Or both.
 Q. What's next for affirmative action? 

A. There will be more rounds of argument about whether "race-neutral alternatives" can produce diversity. "Race-neutral" needs to be in quotation marks, because people have very different ideas about what counts as race-neutral. (Is class-based affirmative action race-neutral if it is intended to produce racial diversity?) Nobody can predict where those arguments will end up, and nobody knows what the court will look like when the issue comes back - which it eventually will. For now, though, this decision will change little about either what universities do in practice or how people more broadly talk about affirmative action. The conversation goes on with just a minor bump.
- The New York Times 
 11:21 A.M. | Bans on Racial Preferences Have Had Mixed Results 
Though Monday's decision will most likely have few immediate implications for affirmative action programs around the country, it may represent the start of a new wave of challenges to the use of race in admissions decisions.
The following states have already banned affirmative action, a move that blocks consideration of race or ethnicity in admission to state colleges: California, Washington, Florida, Michigan, Arizona, New Hampshire, Nebraska and Oklahoma.
In most states, the bans have been followed by an initial sharp drop in enrollment of black, Hispanic and Native American students. The states have responded with a range of policies intended to boost diversity through race-blind means.
But the results have been mixed, both racially and socioeconomically. The affected state universities vary widely in the racial mix of their state populations, their selectivity, their levels of support from state government and how aggressively they have pursued diversity programs.
- Richard P&#233;rez-Pe&#241;a 
 11:14 A.M. | Four Questions for Stuart Taylor 
 Stuart Taylor Jr. has covered the Supreme Court and other matters for National Journal, The New York Times, Newsweek, The American Lawyer and Legal Times. Last year, he and Richard Sander published "Mismatch: How Affirmative Action Hurts Students It's Intended to Help, and Why Universities Won't Admit It." 
 Q: How would you summarize the decision in a single sentence? 
 A. This is an extremely narrow decision reversing the lower court for giving too much credence to the "good faith" of the University of Texas in its use of race and for failing to consider race-neutral alternatives.
 Q. Did anything in in it - or in the justices' votes - surprise you? 
 A. Yes. It was widely expected to be a 5-to-3 decision (with Justice Kagan recused) cutting back on universities' ability to use racial preferences. Instead, Justice Kennedy's majority opinion did not change the law at all.
 Q. How broad of an effect do you think the ruling is likely to have? Will it affect admissions policies anywhere other than the University of Texas, and will it affect areas outside higher education? 
 A. The effect will be very narrow, and the lower court's options include reaffirming its support for the Texas racial-preference plan that the Supreme Court had agreed to review.[#x200b]
 Q. What's next for affirmative action?

 A. The Supreme Court will hear arguments this fall in another big case, Schuette v. Coalition to Defend Affirmative Action, involving a 2006 ballot measure amending the Michigan constitution to prohibit (among other things) racial preferences in state university admissions. The United States Court of Appeals for the 6th Circuit struck down that provision by a party-line vote, with eight Democratic appointees outvoting seven Republican appointees. The majority reasoned that it violated the Constitution's guarantee of equal protection of the laws for a state constitutional amendment to require equal treatment of all racial groups, because the ballot measure had made it harder for racial minorities than for other groups (such as alumni children) to win preferential treatment. Dissenters countered that "a state does not deny equal treatment by mandating it," in the words of Judge Jeffrey Sutton.
- The New York Times 
 11:09 A.M. | Video: Affirmative Action's Contentious History 
- The New York Times 
 10:51 A.M. | Court Calls for More Scrutiny 
The Supreme Court ruled Monday that lower courts did not apply a sufficiently high level of scrutiny to the University of Texas at Austin's use of race in admissions decisions, sending the case back to one of those lower courts to be reconsidered.
The decision will most likely have few immediate implications for affirmative action programs around the country, including in Texas. But it may represent the start of a new wave of challenges to the use of race in admissions decisions.
In a 7-to-1 decision, with Justice Anthony Kennedy writing the majority opinion, the court ruled that the lower court did not use a legal standard known as strict scrutiny to assess the university's program.
"Strict scrutiny," the opinion read, "does not permit a court to accept a school's assertion that its admissions process uses race in a permissible way without closely examining how the process works in practice."
Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg was the lone dissenter in the case, Fisher v. the University of Texas.
Read the decision.
- The New York Times 
 10:47 A.M. | On Affirmative Action, Focus Is on Public Schools 
All of the major rulings on affirmative action, from Bakke in 1978 to Hopwood in 1996 to Grutter and Gratz in 2003 to Fisher today, have involved public universities.
But legal experts say it is only a matter of time before similar challenges are filed against private colleges, as well - and they are likely to succeed.
Plaintiffs have challenged affirmative action as a violation of the 14th Amendment, whose equal protection clause bars discrimination by government, but not by private parties. But Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 prohibits discrimination by any entity that uses federal funds - which describes almost all colleges and universities.
Many private college administrators say they already operate under the assumption that the restrictions the Supreme Court has placed on public universities also apply to them.
- Richard P&#233;rez-Pe&#241;a 
 10:43 A.M. | Public Is Split Along Racial and Partisan Lines 
The public is deeply divided across racial and partisan lines on affirmative action, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News poll conducted early this month.
The poll found that more than half of Americans, 53 percent, favor affirmative action programs for minorities in hiring, promoting and college admissions, while 38 percent oppose them. (Other polls in the past that have asked about giving minorities "preference" have shown less support.)
Three-quarters of black respondents support such programs, but fewer than half of whites agree. And while support is at 75 percent among Democrats, it drops to 51 percent among independents and falls even further to just 37 percent among Republicans.
Among those who favor such programs, most say the main reason is to increase diversity, rather than to make up for discrimination.
- Dalia Sussman 
 10:33 A.M. | Read the Decision 
 Supreme Court Decision in Fisher v. University of Texas (PDF)
Supreme Court Decision in Fisher v. University of Texas (Text)
- The New York Times 
 10:29 A.M. | Inside the Decision 
The court's decision seems to instruct lower courts on how to handle cases concerning affirmative action.
From SCOTUSblog:
Here's the money quote: "The reviewing court must ultimately be satisfied that no workable race-neutral alternatives would produce the educational benefits of diversity."
- The New York Times 
 10:28 A.M. | Texas Has History on Affirmative Action 
Texas was one of the first states to have a ban on affirmative action, and though the prohibition was later overturned, it has had a lasting effect on higher education in that state, and an influence on the Fisher case.
In March 1996, in Hopwood v. Texas, the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals struck down affirmative action, in a case involving admission to the University of Texas Law School. The ruling held sway in the states of that circuit, Texas, Louisiana and Mississippi.
It was in response to that ruling that Texas adopted the practice of admitting all students in the top 10 percent of their high school classes to the state's universities, including the flagship at Austin.
But in 2003, in Grutter v. Bollinger, a case involving the University of Michigan, the Supreme Court overturned the Hopwood decision. That allowed state colleges in the Fifth Circuit to return to a limited consideration of race, which the University of Texas did. But Texas kept the percentage approach in place as the primary means of admitting students. A secondary avenue, which considers race among many factors, was added, and is at issue in the Fisher case.
California has the oldest lasting ban on affirmative action, adopted by voters in November 1996 as Proposition 209.
- Richard P&#233;rez-Pe&#241;a 
 10:19 A.M. | Court Rules in Affirmative Action Case 
The Supreme Court issued a ruling on Monday in Fisher v. University of Texas at Austin, a case concerning affirmative action.
From SCOTUSblog:
The opinion by Kennedy. The Fifth Circuit is vacated and remanded. The holding is because the Fifth Circuit did not hold the university to the demanding burden of strict scrutiny articulated in Grutter and Bakke, its decision affiming the district court's grant of summary judgment was incorrect.
There is one dissent. It is 7-1. Ginsburg dissents alone. There are separate concurring opinions by Scalia and Thomas. Kagan was recused.
- The New York Times 
 9:32 A.M. | Explaining The Times's Coverage of the Decision 
We realize that people will be eager to know what the ruling means as soon as it comes out (and you can read the decision yourself when it is posted on the court's Web site). But we also want to point out that the immediate descriptions of any ruling may not be very meaningful.
For one thing, a ruling could be complicated, as were last year's health care ruling and the 2000 Bush v. Gore ruling, and not amenable to instant summarizing. The court could even announce one portion of a decision - especially on same-sex marriage, given the two different cases - before it releases another portion.
Dozens of Times journalists, in Washington, New York and around the country, are covering the ruling and the reaction to it by the public and those affected by it. At the center of the coverage is Adam Liptak, the Supreme Court reporter (and a lawyer) of The Times, who will be in court to hear the ruling.
We plan to explain the ruling the moment we feel comfortable with its basic meaning - which could be almost immediately. We promise not to bombard you with guesswork or unintelligible legal technicalities. The Times will also run blog posts from the legal experts at SCOTUSblog on our own site, as well as ask other outside experts to help readers understand the decision. Once the fundamentals of the ruling are clear, Times reporters and editors will be analyzing it in real time, on our live blog dedicated to the ruling and on stories appearing across our digital platforms. We will also post updates to Twitter on @thecaucus and @nytimes, and post selected reactions from readers.
We expect to have Mr. Liptak's initial story about any ruling by late morning or shortly after noon, not long after the court's session has ended. Whatever happens Thursday, we also expect at least one major ruling to come next week.
Thanks for being with us.
- The New York Times 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: DECISIONS & RULINGS (95%); SUPREME COURTS (94%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (93%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (92%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); APPEALS (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EDUCATION (90%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (89%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (89%); LITIGATION (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (78%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); DISCRIMINATION (73%); ASIAN AMERICANS (71%); WRITERS (71%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (60%) News from the Court; Supreme Court

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (93%) TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2013



793 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: Making Misconduct a Crime

BYLINE: PETER J. HENNING


HIGHLIGHT: A proposal in Britain to allow the prosecution of bank executives when they engage in reckless misconduct raises the question of whether the United States should consider a similar measure. 

 BODY:
A persistent criticism since the financial crisis hit has been the lack of any significant prosecutions of senior executives at the financial firms that received billions of dollars in taxpayer-financed bailouts. In Britain, the Parliamentary Commission on Banking Standards suggested adding a new law to allow the prosecution of British bank executives when they recklessly engage in misconduct that puts the bank and its customers at risk of severe losses.
It is an interesting question whether Congress should consider similar legislation to make it easier to hold financial executives criminally liable for decisions that can result in billions of dollars of losses, much of which may be borne by taxpayers as long as there are institutions considered "too big to fail." 
One reason given by the Justice Department for the absence of any significant prosecutions of corporate executives is the difficulty prosecutors face in proving an individual's specific intent to commit a crime. Lanny A. Breuer, the former head of the Justice Department's criminal division, offered that explanation in a PBS "Frontline" special entitled "The Untouchables" about the lack of financial crime prosecutions: "But when we cannot prove beyond a reasonable doubt that there was criminal intent, then we have a constitutional duty not to bring those cases."
This is especially problematic when chief executives and other officers may be well removed from the actual decisions that led to the losses. They can plausibly assert their ignorance about what actually happened. When authority is diffused through an organization, it can be almost impossible to hold anyone accountable.
The British proposal would obviate at least some of that difficulty by using a lower threshold to allow a conviction if the government proved that an executive recklessly engaged in misconduct. Under American law in general, recklessness is defined as consciously disregarding a substantial and unjustifiable risk of harm from conduct that is a gross deviation from what a reasonable person would do. A defense of "I didn't know" can be more easily overcome if the person should have been aware of what was happening but charged headlong into risky transactions.
There is nothing comparable to the British proposal in the United States to prosecute this type of financial misconduct by executives. At one time, the federal mail and wire fraud statutes were used against corporate leaders who breached the duty of honest services that involved conflicts of interest and other actions that put their own interests ahead of those of an employer.
Among those prosecuted under this theory was Jeffrey K. Skilling, the former chief executive of Enron. The Supreme Court used his case to limit honest services fraud prosecutions to only instances of bribery and kickbacks, not more general corporate mismanagement that caused harm to the enterprise through dishonesty. Mr. Skilling's sentence was reduced by 10 years last week in exchange for his dropping any further appeals in his case.
With the honest services fraud theory off the table, few options are available to pursue corporate executives for misconduct that does not require proving the higher level of intent bemoaned by the Justice Department.
Civil enforcement actions by the Securities and Exchange Commission can be brought for reckless violations, and some fraud violations require only proof of negligence. But even that lower threshold has proved to be a challenge in cases arising from the financial crisis.
For example, a jury found in favor of Bruce Bent Sr. for his statements about the stability of the Primary Reserve Fund, a money-market fund whose meltdown during the financial crisis unnerved investors, even though the S.E.C. had to prove only negligence. Similarly, a former Citigroup middle manager was cleared of securities fraud charges under the same standard for his role in selling a collateralized debt obligation tied to subprime mortgages that lost much of its value within months of its issuance. The S.E.C. has a trial scheduled next month against Fabrice Tourre, formerly of Goldman Sachs, for his role in peddling a faulty security that will present a significant challenge in whether it can prove he was reckless.
Adopting a statute along the lines of the parliamentary commission's recommendation might have some modest deterrent effect on financial executives, who could fear that they might be made an example by prosecutors seeking to hold someone accountable for a bank's failure. Whether that would make them overly timid in how they manage the bank's operations by avoiding any risk of failure is one plausible response.
Requiring proof of recklessness would not necessarily mean that more executives would be prosecuted successfully for the type of decisions that led to the financial crisis. The recommendation for the new crime in Britain candidly admits that "all concerned should be under no illusions about the difficulties of securing a conviction for such a new offense." The parliamentary commission also said that this new authority could be used only when there are substantial costs imposed on taxpayers or the threat of serious harm to customers, a fairly small class of cases.
In the end, the frustration expressed over the lack of any prominent criminal prosecutions of bankers that captured the public's imagination like the case against Mr. Skilling may be less about the standard for proving a violation than finding proof to link executives to decisions that were clearly criminal. For all the talk about how the financial crisis must have entailed fraud, much of the conduct during that period seemed to involve a headlong rush into risky transactions without understanding the consequences. Whether that was misconduct or just stupidity is not an easy question to answer.
The British proposal for a new crime of reckless mismanagement would give prosecutors another tool to use in the next financial crisis. A lower standard for proving intent might encourage the government to take on tough cases because it would be harder for financial executives to offer up their ignorance or good faith about the details of risky transactions as a shield against being held responsible.
But a new criminal offense would not have any effect on the financial crisis of a few years ago because the Constitution prevents applying a new law to old conduct.

        
After Financial Crisis, Prosecutors Navigate Tricky Waters
        
Ex-TV Cop's New Role: Confidential Informant

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (93%); MISCONDUCT (92%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BAILOUTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BRIBERY (78%); EVIDENCE (77%); SENTENCING (77%); SUPREME COURTS (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (74%); WIRE FRAUD (73%); SUBPRIME LENDING (71%); MAIL FRAUD (60%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (59%) Breuer, Lanny A; Frauds and Swindling; Justice Department; Law and Legislation; Securities and Commodities Violations; Securities and Exchange Commission; Skilling, Jeffrey K; Subprime Mortgage Crisis; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 1; White Collar Watch

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Justice Department; Securities and Exchange Commission

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (51%)

PERSON: Breuer, Lanny A; Skilling, Jeffrey K

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2013



794 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1003 words

HEADLINE: Lessons of the Great Recession: How the Safety Net Performed

BYLINE: JARED BERNSTEIN


HIGHLIGHT: As markets failed, programs to help those hardest hit had uneven results, but showed their value in keeping poverty from escalating, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Jared Bernstein is a senior fellow at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities in Washington and a former chief economist to Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. 
Though the economy is clearly improving, we've yet to fully escape the gravitation pull of the great recession. The job market remains weak, and wages and middle-class incomes remain stagnant.
But we're on the mend, and the likelihood of slipping back into recession is low. So it's none too soon to begin asking the question: what have we learned about economic policy in this crash that should inform our thinking for the next downturn? Lord (Keynes) knows, there's been a lot of policy - fiscal, monetary and financial - to evaluate. 
Let's start with the safety net since it's a fixture of advanced economies and serves the critical function of catching (or not) the most economically vulnerable when the market fails. What follows is a brief overview of a many-faceted topic, but there's solid evidence that key parts of the safety net performed well - probably better than you thought.
Before I get to the evidence, a word about context. First, as suggested above, there's another recession lurking out there somewhere, so let's learn what worked and what didn't.
Second, and this is particularly important in today's political economy, too many policy makers devalue the safety net. In Representative Paul Ryan's terminology, it's a "hammock." For Ronald Reagan, it was a feckless weapon in the "failed" war on poverty (though to his credit, he extended a wage subsidy for low-wage workers that has become a highly effective anti-poverty tool). For many of today's conservatives, the increased use of a safety-net program is proof that there's something wrong with the user, not the underlying economy.
But while people do abuse safety nets - and not just poor people (think bank bailouts and special tax treatment of multinational corporations) - I want to see receipt of unemployment insurance, the rolls of the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (food stamps), and so on go up in recessions. In fact, their failure to do so would be a sign that something's very wrong, like an air bag that failed to deploy in a crash.
The figure below tracks three programs, two which responded quite elastically to the downturn, and one - Temporary Assistance for Needy Families, or T.A.N.F. - which did not. (I'll get to why unemployment insurance has gone down while SNAP remained elevated in a moment.)
There are two reasons that T.A.N.F. was so unresponsive. First, welfare reform in the mid-1990s significantly increased its work requirements, which worked well then, as the policy change interacted with historically strong demand for low-wage labor. Since then, and especially in the great recession, the low-wage job market has been much less welcoming.
Second, T.A.N.F. was "block granted," meaning states receive a fixed amount that is largely insensitive to recessions (my colleague Liz Schott has noted some minor wrinkles) and inflation. Since the block grant began, the real value of T.A.N.F. funds is down 30 percent. Now, consider this: it is a fixture of conservative policy on poverty to apply this same block grant strategy to food stamps and Medicaid. The numbers and the chart above show this to be a recipe for inelastic response to recession, or, more plainly, a great way to cut some big holes in the safety net.
A useful way to show the effectiveness of the safety net in the downturn is to look at poverty rates before and after counting the value of its benefits. The figure below gets close to that for child poverty. As officially (and incorrectly) measured, poverty rates reflect the impact of only a minority of safety-net benefits. For example, they include unemployment insurance but not SNAP.
The official rate for children goes up over the recession, from 18 percent to 22 percent, but once you include the full force of safety-net (and Recovery Act) measures that kicked in, it holds steady at about 15 percent. Though child poverty rates even under the alternative measure are still too high, this figure provides strong evidence of the effectiveness of the American safety net in the worst recession since the Depression.
Finally, because the recession is receding, shouldn't the SNAP rolls be coming down as well? The answer gets back to the points made above regarding the ongoing weakness in the job market. In a recent paper, the economists Peter Ganong and Jeffrey Liebman asked the following question: based on the historical relationship between SNAP rolls and unemployment, where would we expect SNAP roles to be?
The answer: pretty much where they are. Though their growth has decelerated, SNAP rolls remain elevated because their function remains critical in what's still a tough job market for low-income households. Unemployment insurance rolls, on the other hand, have come down in part because they serve a broader swath of the population, and in part because extended benefits have been prematurely cut back.
I'm not suggesting we celebrate elevated SNAP rolls. Their height is evidence that the economy remains too weak for eligible households to afford adequate nutrition and that our current economic policy agenda isn't doing enough to offset that weakness. But the fact is that markets fail, and when they do, income and food supports must rise to protect the most economically vulnerable families.
So let's get this straight: the poor and their advocates were not the ones who tanked the economy. Nor should they be on the defensive when the safety net expands to offset some of the damage. The right question at such times is thus not why the SNAP rolls are so high. It's whether SNAP, unemployment insurance, T.A.N.F. et al are expanding adequately to meet the needs of the poor.

        
Food Stamps and Unemployment Insurance
        
Has the 1996 Welfare Reform Been Reversed?
        
Jobless Benefits as an Antipoverty Program
        
Food Stamps: Married People Need Not Apply
        
Millions Caught by the Social Safety Net

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RECESSION (91%); BUDGETS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (76%); EMPLOYMENT (75%); BAILOUTS (72%); FAMILY (72%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (71%); DEVALUATION (69%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (65%); CONSERVATISM (64%); BANK FAILURES (63%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (50%) Food Stamps; Poverty; Recession and Depression; Unemployment Insurance; Welfare (US); Today's Economist

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (79%); JARED BERNSTEIN (74%); JOE BIDEN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2013



795 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 5058 words

HEADLINE: Live Analysis of Supreme Court Decision on Affirmative Action

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: The Supreme Court ruled on Thursday on Fisher v. University of Texas at Austin, a case concerning affirmative action. Times reporters and editors are analyzing the decision and its implications, as well as the public&#8217;s reaction to it. 

 BODY:
 The Supreme Court ruled Monday that lower courts did not apply a sufficiently high level of scrutiny to the University of Texas' use of race in admissions decisions, sending the case back to one of those lower courts to be reconsidered.
 1:55 P.M. | Four Questions for Ada Meloy 
 Ada Meloy is the general counsel at the American Council on Education, which represents college and university presidents. She previously spent 28 years at New York University's Office of Legal Counsel. 
 Q. How would you summarize the decision in a single sentence? 
 A. The Supreme Court today affirmed the educational benefits of diversity on college and university campuses, allowing institutions to continue considering race and ethnicity as one factor in the admissions process as long as they show their plans are precisely tailored and necessary to achieve their goals.
 Q. Did anything in in it - or in the justices' votes - surprise you? 
 A. We were not expecting a 7-to-1 vote, regardless of what decision the court reached. While not surprised, we were gratified that the court affirmed the compelling government interest in diversity on college and university campuses.
 Q. How broad of an effect do you think the ruling is likely to have? Will it affect admissions policies anywhere other than the University of Texas, and will it affect areas outside higher education? 
 A. The Fisher decision has the potential to affect any college or university that considers race and ethnicity in the admissions process. The ruling does seem very much focused on higher education, but like any Supreme Court ruling it could set a precedent that will impact other parts of our society.
 Q. What's next for affirmative action? 
 A. It will take time to analyze the Fisher ruling and its impact on the use of race and ethnicity in the college admissions process. But college and universities that do use race and ethnicity as a factor should review their admissions policies to make sure they can document why that is necessary to achieving their goals.
- The New York Times 
 1:48 P.M. | Four Questions for Lee Cheng 
 Lee Cheng is a co-founder and secretary of the Asian American Legal Foundation, which was established in 1994. He was the co-author of an amicus brief in Fisher v. the University of Texas at Austin, arguing against the university's affirmative-action program. 
 Q. How would you summarize the decision in a single sentence? 
 A. The expansion of the Grutter doctrine has been halted: the court ruled today that universities like the University of Texas cannot discriminate on the basis of race, no matter how well-intentioned, and that the means and effects of all race-based programs must be subjected to the highest standards of review by courts.
 Q. Did anything in in it - or in the justices' votes - surprise you? 
The court's decision in Fisher v. Texas was not surprising. It was the most likely decision possible among the various options - the type of Solomonic baby splitting that Supreme Court justices seem to love.
We were surprised by the size of the majority in this decision, and the absence of more concurrences and dissents. We did not
expect Justices Breyer or Sotomator to join the majority, but are glad that so many of the justices were willing to recognize that all race-based programs should be questioned and challenged to determine whether they are indeed sufficiently designed to and actually
achieve their purported societal benefits.
 Q. How broad of an effect do you think the ruling is likely to have? Will it affect admissions policies anywhere other than the University of Texas, and will it affect areas outside higher education? 
 A. The court ruled today that all race-based programs, whether in higher education or not, must be, more than ever, subjected to the highest level of judicial scrutiny. I can see challenges to programs across the country in higher and even K-12 education, and eventually in employment and contracting.
 Q. What's next for affirmative action? 
 A. While the use of race as one of many factors to consider continues to be permitted, as it was in Grutter, the court arguably enhanced the level of scrutiny for all programs using race as a consideration based on the means used and the effects of such programs. It's like the court is theoretically allowing race to be considered but also requiring accountability for all programs using race.
In terms of tangible effects, the decision likely means two things: a) the expansion of the number and sophistication of programs
that use race in admissions, and b) additional litigation challenging race-based programs across the country.
- The New York Times 
 1:02 P.M. | Four Questions for Desiree C. Boykin 
 Desiree C. Boykin is the interim general counsel and assistant secretary of the United Negro College Fund. She is a co-author of a recent amicus brief to the Supreme Court on Fisher v. University of Texas at Austin, arguing for the university's affirmative-action program.

 Q. How would you summarize the decision in a single sentence? 
A. In requiring the lower court to follow the standards set forth in Grutter, the Supreme Court has preserved its earlier holding that a
diverse learning environment is a compelling interest that benefits all students and our country as a whole.
 Q. Did anything in in it - or in the justices' votes - surprise you? 
 A. No. In remanding the case, the court is requiring that its prior rulings in Grutter and Bakke are followed and that the appropriate burden of proof is applied.
 Q. How broad of an effect do you think the ruling is likely to have? Will it affect admissions policies anywhere other than the University of Texas, and will it affect areas outside higher education? 
 A. Any impact to admissions policies will not be known until after the lower court's review.
 Q. What's next for affirmative action? 
 A. We believe that the University of Texas at Austin's admissions policy is a carefully crafted policy that will ultimately be upheld by the courts.
- The New York Times 
 12:50 P.M. | Four Questions for Roger Clegg 
 Roger Clegg is the president and general counsel of the Center for Equal Opportunity, a conservative organization. From 1982 to 1993, he held a number of positions at the United States Department of Justice, and he argued three cases before the United States Supreme Court. 
 Q. How would you summarize the decision in a single sentence? 
 A. Strict means strict.
 Q. Did anything in in it - or in the justices' votes - surprise you? 
 A. That we had to wait so long for a decision that, while ultimately positive, is still quite limited and brief.
 Q. How broad of an effect do you think the ruling is likely to have? 
 A. The combination of the ruling and the run-up to the ruling - in which it has become clear how increasingly unpopular and discredited racial preferences in admissions are - will result in some serious soul-searching among university presidents on whether "diversity" is really worth the price of racial discrimination. At least, I hope so.
 Q. Will it affect admissions policies anywhere other than the University of Texas, and will it affect areas outside higher education? 
 A. Certainly the soul-searching I describe should take place at all universities that use racial preferences. It might cause for some corporate soul-searching, too, since unfortunately corporate America has bought into the diversity-via-discrimination approach in a big way.
 Q. What's next for affirmative action? 
Preferential treatment based on race, ethnicity, and sex - the sort of "affirmative action" that is objectionable as a policy and legal matter - will continue its steady march to the dustbin of history. And deservedly so.
- The New York Times 
 12:44 P.M. | Four Questions for Richard D. Kahlenberg 
 Richard D. Kahlenberg is a senior fellow at the Century Foundation. He is the author of "The Remedy," a 1996 book about affirmative action, as well as a co-author of the recent report "A Better Affirmative Action." 
 Q. How would you summarize the decision in a single sentence? 
 A. By making it much harder for universities to employ racial preferences, the Supreme Court has paved the way for a new affirmative action based on economic disadvantage.
 Q. Did anything in in it - or in the justices' votes - surprise you? 
 A. I was surprised that the court sent the case back to the lower court and surprised that Justices Breyer and Sotomayor were willing to sign on to a tougher standard - that on the question of narrow tailoring "the university receives no deference," and the requirement that "judges must ultimately be satisfied that no workable race-neutral alternative would produce the educational benefits of diversity."
 Q. How broad of an effect do you think the ruling is likely to have? Will it affect admissions policies anywhere other than the University of Texas, and will it affect areas outside higher education? 
 A. The effect will be national in scope, influencing the admissions policies at both public and private colleges and universities across the country. In the past universities have relied heavily on racial preferences and given almost no consideration to economic disadvantage. By requiring universities to first pursue "race-neutral" alternatives like economic status, the Supreme Court could effectively flip the equation. If universities want racial diversity, they will first have to try to achieve it by using alternative means such as economic status.
 Q. What's next for affirmative action? 
 A. While the Supreme Court left the door open a crack for using race (in cases where "no workable race-neutral alternatives" are available), economic affirmative action will likely come to predominate in college admissions over time. In the 2007 Supreme Court striking down racial integration plans in Louisville and Seattle in 2007, Justice Kennedy described ways in which race could still be used, but virtually all school districts pursuing integration shifted to emphasizing socioeconomic status rather than race. The new higher standard is likely to discourage universities from using race and opening themselves up to litigation. If that occurs, the decision will be a boon to low-income and working-class students of all racial backgrounds who have to date been effectively shut out of selective colleges.
- The New York Times 
 12:36 P.M. | How Minorities Have Fared in States With Bans 
In states that have banned affirmative action in college admissions, prominent public universities have tended to enroll fewer black and Hispanic freshmen. This interactive graphic shows which prominent colleges have been the most successful at keeping pace with demographic changes. View the Graphic
- Graphics Desk 
 12:13 P.M. | Four Questions for Sheryll Cashin 
 Sheryll Cashin is a law professor at Georgetown University and a former law clerk to Thurgood Marshall. Next year, she will publish a book entitled "Place Not Race: Creating Opportunity for All After Affirmative Action." 
 Q. How would you summarize the decision in a single sentence? 
 A. After nearly a year of debate and anxiety on both sides of the question, the court in a 7-to-1 decision largely maintained the status quo, i.e., universities have a compelling interest in pursuing diversity but they cannot use rigid racial quotas.
 Q. Did anything in in it - or in the justices' votes - surprise you? 
 A. I was surprised that the court left intact its decision in Grutter (the Michigan affirmative case). Although Justice Kennedy dissented in that case, writing for the majority today he took Grutter and Bakke as givens. Justice Kennedy seems to have made his peace with Grutter in part by putting his gloss on it. He is very comfortable with the idea that universities have a compelling interest in the educational benefits of diversity. He reaffirmed that they even deserve deference on why diversity produces educational benefits. He made it clear, however, that any use of race must be narrowly tailored and that judges, not universities, get to decide what narrow tailoring means. His bottom line was this: when an affirmative action plan gets challenged in court, the court must be satisfied that there are "no workable race-neutral alternatives" to achieve the educational benefits of diversity.
 Q. How broad of an effect do you think the ruling is likely to have? Will it affect admissions policies anywhere other than the University of Texas, and will it affect areas outside higher education? 
 A. In the near term I think many universities are breathing a sigh of relief. In theory, a race-based affirmative action plan can still survive strict scrutiny, although Justice Kennedy has placed his thumb on the scale against it in demanding that universities that are sued must make a showing that there were no viable race-neutral alternatives. I think universities will be reviewing their admissions plans carefully over the summer and watching to see what happens to the University of Texas' plan on remand. The decision is more important for U.T. than other universities; U.T. could lose on remand.
 Q. What's next for affirmative action? 
 A. There will always be another Abigail Fisher. Opponents in this case did not ask the court to overrule Grutter. There are four votes to overrule Grutter, but Kennedy has indicated in this opinion that he is not inclined to do it. I think opponents of affirmative action will keep chipping away at it through litigation and in the political sphere, lobbying Republicans in state legislatures to adopt bans. We are up to eight state bans, and this opinion may galvanize more political opposition. I also think university admissions offices will continue experimenting with race-neutral alternatives that help create racial and economic diversity in a less divisive way. Hopefully the anxiety about lawsuits will cause universities to revisit admissions policies that are exclusionary, like standardized tests and legacy admissions.
- The New York Times 
 11:57 A.M. | Decision Lands on a Busy Day at the White House 
White House officials in every administration like to brag about being able to multitask during days when the news hits them from all sides.
This is one of those days.
National security officials are chasing Edward Snowden, the National Security Agency leaker, across the globe. The immigration battle in the Senate is entering its final week. The president is preparing for a huge climate policy announcement on Tuesday. Diplomatic officials are bracing for the possibility that Nelson Mandela might die in hours before the president's trip to the African continent.
Oh, and the Supreme Court on Monday morning issued a ruling on affirmative action programs at the nation's colleges, the first of what could be landmark rulings in four cases this week that have broad implications for the nation.
"The president has to be able to walk, chew gum, juggle and ride a unicycle all at the same time," Robert Gibbs, Mr. Obama's first press secretary, said once.
A statement from the West Wing on the affirmative action ruling is expected soon (though the White House counsel's office, no doubt, is in the same position as everyone else: trying to figure out exactly what it means).
The affirmative action statement would follow a series of late-night communications by the national security staff at the White House on Mr. Snowden, who appears not to have boarded the flight to Cuba that everyone expected him to be on Monday morning.
And later Monday, White House officials are holding a briefing for reporters to preview the president's remarks on climate change. Mr. Obama is expected to announce his intention to propose new regulations limiting carbon dioxide emissions from existing power plants.
Meanwhile, the president's travel and protocol offices are waiting to see what happens with Mr. Mandela, who has been in a hospital for three weeks, battling a long-standing lung infection. On Sunday, South African officials said his condition had become critical.
Mr. Obama is slated to leave Wednesday for his weeklong, three-country trip that includes two days in South Africa. If Mr. Mandela dies ahead of the trip, it is unclear how that could change Mr. Obama's travel plans.
For the moment, White House officials are just going to have to be flexible. Or, as Jay Carney, the president's current press secretary, said recently, "We can walk and chew gum at the same time."
- Michael D. Shear 
 11:36 A.M. | Four Questions for Richard Primus 
 Richard Primus is a professor specializing in constitutional law at the University of Michigan Law School. He is a former Rhodes Scholar and served as a clerk to Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg. 
 Q. How would you summarize the decision in a single sentence? 
 A. The Michigan model of affirmative action - upheld by the court in 2003 - remains valid for now, and the court will watch universities closely to make sure they don't go an inch beyond it.
 Q. Did anything in in it - or in the justices' votes - surprise you?
 A. Many people predicted that a 5-to-4 conservative majority would use this case to eliminate affirmative action. Those predictions were probably based more on fear (from the left) and wishful thinking (from the right) than on careful consideration of what the center of this court - Justice Kennedy - has said in the past. The result in this case is perfectly Kennedyesque: universities may consider race to ensure diverse student bodies, but only if they really need to, and Justice Kennedy's court will be in charge of deciding whether they really need to.
What's remarkable is how broad a coalition agreed to handle the case in this moderate way. Sometime in the future, the ultimate question of the validity of race-based affirmative action may have to be confronted again. But for now, even most of the court's conservative justices declined to use this occasion to say that they believe affirmative action to be flatly unconstitutional.
 Q. How broad of an effect do you think the ruling is likely to have? Will it affect admissions policies anywhere other than the University of Texas, and will it affect areas outside higher education?
 A. The ruling will change little. It reaffirms the status quo, with emphasis on the court's own role as arbiter. After a lot of buildup and drama, this round ends with a whimper and not a bang.
 If we believed that the court was in the business of applying precedent scrupulously and cautiously, this shouldn't surprise us. The big story here is the gap between the public's expectation of big news and the quiet, technical resolution the court chose. For which there can be two explanations: Either the public has come to expect the court to act even more ideologically than it does, or else affirmative action touches a nerve raw enough that we expect it to produce fireworks. Or both.
 Q. What's next for affirmative action? 

A. There will be more rounds of argument about whether "race-neutral alternatives" can produce diversity. "Race-neutral" needs to be in quotation marks, because people have very different ideas about what counts as race-neutral. (Is class-based affirmative action race-neutral if it is intended to produce racial diversity?) Nobody can predict where those arguments will end up, and nobody knows what the court will look like when the issue comes back - which it eventually will. For now, though, this decision will change little about either what universities do in practice or how people more broadly talk about affirmative action. The conversation goes on with just a minor bump.
- The New York Times 
 11:21 A.M. | Bans on Racial Preferences Have Had Mixed Results 
Though Monday's decision will most likely have few immediate implications for affirmative action programs around the country, it may represent the start of a new wave of challenges to the use of race in admissions decisions.
The following states have already banned affirmative action, a move that blocks consideration of race or ethnicity in admission to state colleges: California, Washington, Florida, Michigan, Arizona, New Hampshire, Nebraska and Oklahoma.
In most states, the bans have been followed by an initial sharp drop in enrollment of black, Hispanic and Native American students. The states have responded with a range of policies intended to boost diversity through race-blind means.
But the results have been mixed, both racially and socioeconomically. The affected state universities vary widely in the racial mix of their state populations, their selectivity, their levels of support from state government and how aggressively they have pursued diversity programs.
- Richard P&#233;rez-Pe&#241;a 
 11:14 A.M. | Four Questions for Stuart Taylor 
 Stuart Taylor Jr. has covered the Supreme Court and other matters for National Journal, The New York Times, Newsweek, The American Lawyer and Legal Times. Last year, he and Richard Sander published "Mismatch: How Affirmative Action Hurts Students It's Intended to Help, and Why Universities Won't Admit It." 
 Q: How would you summarize the decision in a single sentence? 
 A. This is an extremely narrow decision reversing the lower court for giving too much credence to the "good faith" of the University of Texas in its use of race and for failing to consider race-neutral alternatives.
 Q. Did anything in in it - or in the justices' votes - surprise you? 
 A. Yes. It was widely expected to be a 5-to-3 decision (with Justice Kagan recused) cutting back on universities' ability to use racial preferences. Instead, Justice Kennedy's majority opinion did not change the law at all.
 Q. How broad of an effect do you think the ruling is likely to have? Will it affect admissions policies anywhere other than the University of Texas, and will it affect areas outside higher education? 
 A. The effect will be very narrow, and the lower court's options include reaffirming its support for the Texas racial-preference plan that the Supreme Court had agreed to review.[#x200b]
 Q. What's next for affirmative action?

 A. The Supreme Court will hear arguments this fall in another big case, Schuette v. Coalition to Defend Affirmative Action, involving a 2006 ballot measure amending the Michigan constitution to prohibit (among other things) racial preferences in state university admissions. The United States Court of Appeals for the 6th Circuit struck down that provision by a party-line vote, with eight Democratic appointees outvoting seven Republican appointees. The majority reasoned that it violated the Constitution's guarantee of equal protection of the laws for a state constitutional amendment to require equal treatment of all racial groups, because the ballot measure had made it harder for racial minorities than for other groups (such as alumni children) to win preferential treatment. Dissenters countered that "a state does not deny equal treatment by mandating it," in the words of Judge Jeffrey Sutton.
- The New York Times 
 11:09 A.M. | Video: Affirmative Action's Contentious History 
- The New York Times 
 10:51 A.M. | Court Calls for More Scrutiny 
The Supreme Court ruled Monday that lower courts did not apply a sufficiently high level of scrutiny to the University of Texas at Austin's use of race in admissions decisions, sending the case back to one of those lower courts to be reconsidered.
The decision will most likely have few immediate implications for affirmative action programs around the country, including in Texas. But it may represent the start of a new wave of challenges to the use of race in admissions decisions.
In a 7-to-1 decision, with Justice Anthony Kennedy writing the majority opinion, the court ruled that the lower court did not use a legal standard known as strict scrutiny to assess the university's program.
"Strict scrutiny," the opinion read, "does not permit a court to accept a school's assertion that its admissions process uses race in a permissible way without closely examining how the process works in practice."
Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg was the lone dissenter in the case, Fisher v. the University of Texas.
Read the decision.
- The New York Times 
 10:47 A.M. | On Affirmative Action, Focus Is on Public Schools 
All of the major rulings on affirmative action, from Bakke in 1978 to Hopwood in 1996 to Grutter and Gratz in 2003 to Fisher today, have involved public universities.
But legal experts say it is only a matter of time before similar challenges are filed against private colleges, as well - and they are likely to succeed.
Plaintiffs have challenged affirmative action as a violation of the 14th Amendment, whose equal protection clause bars discrimination by government, but not by private parties. But Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 prohibits discrimination by any entity that uses federal funds - which describes almost all colleges and universities.
Many private college administrators say they already operate under the assumption that the restrictions the Supreme Court has placed on public universities also apply to them.
- Richard P&#233;rez-Pe&#241;a 
 10:43 A.M. | Public Is Split Along Racial and Partisan Lines 
The public is deeply divided across racial and partisan lines on affirmative action, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News poll conducted early this month.
The poll found that more than half of Americans, 53 percent, favor affirmative action programs for minorities in hiring, promoting and college admissions, while 38 percent oppose them. (Other polls in the past that have asked about giving minorities "preference" have shown less support.)
Three-quarters of black respondents support such programs, but fewer than half of whites agree. And while support is at 75 percent among Democrats, it drops to 51 percent among independents and falls even further to just 37 percent among Republicans.
Among those who favor such programs, most say the main reason is to increase diversity, rather than to make up for discrimination.
- Dalia Sussman 
 10:33 A.M. | Read the Decision 
Supreme Court Decision in Fisher v. University of Texas (PDF)
Supreme Court Decision in Fisher v. University of Texas (Text)
- The New York Times 
 10:29 A.M. | Inside the Decision 
The court's decision seems to instruct lower courts on how to handle cases concerning affirmative action.
From SCOTUSblog:
Here's the money quote: "The reviewing court must ultimately be satisfied that no workable race-neutral alternatives would produce the educational benefits of diversity."
- The New York Times 
 10:28 A.M. | Texas Has History on Affirmative Action 
Texas was one of the first states to have a ban on affirmative action, and though the prohibition was later overturned, it has had a lasting effect on higher education in that state, and an influence on the Fisher case.
In March 1996, in Hopwood v. Texas, the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals struck down affirmative action, in a case involving admission to the University of Texas Law School. The ruling held sway in the states of that circuit, Texas, Louisiana and Mississippi.
It was in response to that ruling that Texas adopted the practice of admitting all students in the top 10 percent of their high school classes to the state's universities, including the flagship at Austin.
But in 2003, in Grutter v. Bollinger, a case involving the University of Michigan, the Supreme Court overturned the Hopwood decision. That allowed state colleges in the Fifth Circuit to return to a limited consideration of race, which the University of Texas did. But Texas kept the percentage approach in place as the primary means of admitting students. A secondary avenue, which considers race among many factors, was added, and is at issue in the Fisher case.
California has the oldest lasting ban on affirmative action, adopted by voters in November 1996 as Proposition 209.
- Richard P&#233;rez-Pe&#241;a 
 10:19 A.M. | Court Rules in Affirmative Action Case 
The Supreme Court issued a ruling on Monday in Fisher v. University of Texas at Austin, a case concerning affirmative action.
From SCOTUSblog:
The opinion by Kennedy. The Fifth Circuit is vacated and remanded. The holding is because the Fifth Circuit did not hold the university to the demanding burden of strict scrutiny articulated in Grutter and Bakke, its decision affiming the district court's grant of summary judgment was incorrect.
There is one dissent. It is 7-1. Ginsburg dissents alone. There are separate concurring opinions by Scalia and Thomas. Kagan was recused.
- The New York Times 
 9:32 A.M. | Explaining The Times's Coverage of the Decision 
We realize that people will be eager to know what the ruling means as soon as it comes out (and you can read the decision yourself when it is posted on the court's Web site). But we also want to point out that the immediate descriptions of any ruling may not be very meaningful.
For one thing, a ruling could be complicated, as were last year's health care ruling and the 2000 Bush v. Gore ruling, and not amenable to instant summarizing. The court could even announce one portion of a decision - especially on same-sex marriage, given the two different cases - before it releases another portion.
Dozens of Times journalists, in Washington, New York and around the country, are covering the ruling and the reaction to it by the public and those affected by it. At the center of the coverage is Adam Liptak, the Supreme Court reporter (and a lawyer) of The Times, who will be in court to hear the ruling.
We plan to explain the ruling the moment we feel comfortable with its basic meaning - which could be almost immediately. We promise not to bombard you with guesswork or unintelligible legal technicalities. The Times will also run blog posts from the legal experts at SCOTUSblog on our own site, as well as ask other outside experts to help readers understand the decision. Once the fundamentals of the ruling are clear, Times reporters and editors will be analyzing it in real time, on our live blog dedicated to the ruling and on stories appearing across our digital platforms. We will also post updates to Twitter on @thecaucus and @nytimes, and post selected reactions from readers.
We expect to have Mr. Liptak's initial story about any ruling by late morning or shortly after noon, not long after the court's session has ended. Whatever happens Thursday, we also expect at least one major ruling to come next week.
Thanks for being with us.
- The New York Times 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SUPREME COURTS (94%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (94%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (93%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (92%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); APPEALS (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EDUCATION (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (90%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (90%); ETHNICITY (89%); LAWYERS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (76%); DISCRIMINATION (73%); ASIAN AMERICANS (60%); WRITERS (60%) News from the Court; Supreme Court

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (93%) TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2013



796 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 641 words

HEADLINE: Recent Ex-Senators Find Soft Landings on Corporate Boards

BYLINE: THEO FRANCIS


HIGHLIGHT: Departing senators are finding that the life of an ex-lawmaker can be lucrative. In recent months, several have found spots in corporate boardroom, even if they have no direct business experience in the industries wooing them. 

 BODY:
Departing senators are finding that the life of an ex-lawmaker can be lucrative. In recent months, several have found spots in corporate boardroom, even if they have no direct business experience in the industries wooing them.
Last week, Olympia Snowe, the former Republican senator from Maine, was named to the board of T. Rowe Price, the Baltimore investment management company that handles more than $600 billion. She joins two other senators whose terms ended in January in landing a boardroom seat.
Scott Brown, a Massachusetts Republican who briefly filled Ted Kennedy's seat, joined the board of Kadant, a paper- and recycling-equipment maker, on Feb. 6, just a month after his Senate term ended. (Mr. Brown was beaten at the polls by the progressive firebrand Elizabeth Warren.) He also did not remain unemployed for long,landing a position at the big law firm Nixon Peabody. 
A little over a month later, on March 22, Kent Conrad, a fiscally conservative North Dakota Democrat, joined the board of Genworth Financial, a life insurance company spun off from General Electric in 2004. Mr. Conrad, Mr. Brown and Ms. Snowe are just three of the 14 senators who stepped down from the 112th Congress.
If history is any guide, other ex-colleagues will soon follow. About a third of recent former senators appear to have landed on company boards, based on an analysis corporate filings.
During last three Congressional election cycles, 43 senators have retired, quit or lost an election, according to an online database from Roll Call, one of the news outlets that closely follow the comings and goings of Beltway figures.
Some ex-senators sign onto multiple company boards. Those have included Judd Gregg, a former New Hampshire Republican and former governor of that state who was briefly in the running to serve as commerce secretary under President Obama. He sits on the boards of IntercontinentalExchange and FairPoint Communications.
John E. Sununu, who represented New Hampshire for one term and is the son of President Reagan's chief of staff, sits on the boards of Time Warner Cable and the medical device maker Boston Scientific. Evan Bayh, a conservative Democrat and former governor from Indiana, serves on the boards of Marathon Petroleum and Fifth Third Bancorp.
Perhaps unsurprising, there can be overlap between a lawmaker's Senate duties and board service. Mr. Bayh, for example, had served on both the Senate's energy and banking committees. Others oversee companies influential in their home states. Blanche Lincoln, who sat on the Senate's energy committee, now serves on the board of Entergy, a big utility that's a major force in her home state of Arkansas.
Other ex-senators now in the boardroom include Gordon Smith, an Oregon Republican known for helping to expand hate-crime laws to gays, helps oversee Host Hotels and Resorts; Chuck Hagel, now Mr. Obama's defense secretary, served on Chevron's board after leaving the Senate in 2009; and Byron Dorgan, a North Dakota Democrat who opposed repealing Glass-Steagall serves on the board of Codexis.
Done right, serving on a corporate board can be challenging. But there's no question the pay is good for what is, fundamentally, a part-time job.
T. Rowe Price's board met seven times last year, for example, and acted by "unanimous consent" three other times. The executive compensation committee, which Ms. Snowe is joining, met six times.
In terms of pay, she will receive 4,200 restricted shares (worth about $302,484 at Friday's close) and stands to collect a cash retainer of $75,000 a year, plus $1,500 for each committee meeting she attends and up to $10,000 in charitable matching contributions. In 2012, T. Rowe Price board members averaged about $280,000 each in total compensation.

        
White House Moves to Shape the Financial Bill
        
House Gives Final Approval to Financial Overhaul

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); BOARD CHANGES (90%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); GOVERNORS (76%); MEDICAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MFG (74%); CRIMINAL LAW (73%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (73%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (71%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (70%); LAWYERS (69%); VOTERS & VOTING (69%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (65%); HATE CRIME (61%); HOTELS & MOTELS (60%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (56%); MEDICAL DEVICES (50%) Boards of Directors; Brown, Scott P; Conrad, Kent; House of Representatives; Senate; Snowe, Olympia J; United States Politics and Government; Corporate Governance; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory; Revolving Door; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: NIXON PEABODY LLP (83%); FIFTH THIRD BANCORP (81%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (55%); GENWORTH FINANCIAL INC (55%); INTERCONTINENTALEXCHANGE INC (53%); FAIRPOINT COMMUNICATIONS INC (53%); BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORP (52%); MARATHON OIL CORP (52%); MARATHON PETROLEUM CORP (52%); TIME WARNER CABLE INC (52%); ENTERGY CORP (51%); HOST HOTELS & RESORTS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives; Senate

TICKER: FITB (NASDAQ) (81%); GNE (PAR) (55%); GEC (LSE) (55%); GE (SWX) (55%); GE (NYSE) (55%); GNW (NYSE) (55%); ICE (NYSE) (53%); FRP (NASDAQ) (53%); BSX (NYSE) (52%); MRO (NYSE) (52%); MPC (NYSE) (52%); TWC (NYSE) (52%); ETR (NYSE) (51%); HST (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (81%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (81%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (81%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (81%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (81%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (55%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (55%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (55%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (55%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (53%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (53%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (52%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (52%); SIC3841 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENTS & APPARATUS (52%); NAICS447190 OTHER GASOLINE STATIONS (52%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (52%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (52%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (52%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (52%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (51%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (50%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (50%)

PERSON: KENT CONRAD (90%); OLYMPIA SNOWE (90%); SCOTT BROWN (90%); ELIZABETH WARREN (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); CHUCK HAGEL (79%); EVAN BAYH (58%); TED KENNEDY (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JUDD GREGG (58%); BLANCHE LINCOLN (58%); JOHN SUNUNU (58%) Brown, Scott P; Conrad, Kent; Snowe, Olympia J

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2013



797 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The 6th Floor)

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2013

SECTION: MAGAZINE

LENGTH: 251 words

HEADLINE: Adam Davidson Says the Economy Is Meh

BYLINE: SAMANTHA HENIG


HIGHLIGHT: He also advises on nonmeh footwear for toddlers. 

 BODY:
As a longtime Meh List columnist, I know that writing the list can require passing judgment on things about which you know very little. I have been guilty of declaring a movie meh based only on its trailer. I once said that Caribbean cruises are meh, having never been on a Caribbean cruise. It isn't a perfect science. 
But when Adam Davidson, the magazine's It's the Economy columnist and the co-founder of NPR's "Planet Money," deems the economy to be meh, as he did as part of his stint as guest columnist this weekend, you can be sure he has put some thought into the matter. "The economy is no longer in a spiraling-downward recession," Davidson told me. "It's also not in a robust, vertiginous rise. If anything has ever been meh in the history of meh, it is the current U.S. Economy."
Perhaps more controversial was Davidson's assessment of toddler Crocs. Crocs are so clearly submeh, a term that we used to disqualify items that elicit strongly negative (and therefore nonmeh) feelings. But toddler shoes, as a rule, are adorable. Can something hideous and something cute combine to form something meh? Questions like this keep Meh List writers up at night.
For reference, here are the size-5 Stride Rite sandals that Davidson straps onto his 19-month-old.
Is there a Times reporter you'd like to see take a turn writing the Meh List? Make suggestions in the comments section below or on Twitter using the hashtag #mehlist. I can't guarantee that the person will do it, but I can at least make an attempt.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); FOOTWEAR (90%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2013



798 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 421 words

HEADLINE: The Rise of Disability

BYLINE: BINYAMIN APPELBAUM


HIGHLIGHT: A report from the San Francisco Fed points to a new constituency for disability insurance that could require changes in the program, which is already running short of money. 

 BODY:
The share of working-age Americans receiving federal disability payments has roughly doubled in recent decades. It rose from 23 of every 1,000 workers in 1980 to 47 of every 1,000 workers in 2011. Put differently, 5 percent of the potential work force is more or less permanently out of action. That's not good. 
The government likes to describe the increase mostly as the result of two demographic trends. Americans, on average, are getting older, and old people are less healthy. Also, as more women have entered the labor force, the share of female workers with health problems has climbed closer to the male average.
Independent experts, however, see substantial evidence that disability insurance increasingly serves as a safety net for people who cannot find jobs - people, that is, who might still have the ability to perform at least some kinds of work.
A new research note from the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco estimates 40 percent to 60 percent of the growth in disability claims in recent decades is a result of the program's attracting a broader constituency. They note that it has become easier to qualify, as claims increasingly are judged on subjective criteria. And the benefits have become more lucrative, particularly for low-wage workers. The formula is based on average wages, so rising income inequality has increased benefit payments even as the wages of most workers have stagnated.
The difference is important because disability insurance is a very sticky kind of safety net. Historically, few people who qualify for disability during downturns return to the work force during rebounds, creating a twofold drag: Fewer workers and more people depending on each of those workers to pay their taxes.
The difference also is important because the disability program is running out of money. The government projects that the disability fund will not be able to meet all claims in full by 2016. Those financial problems are relatively easy to fix if the growth of disability is being driven by demographics, because those trends are leveling off. But if the program is attracting a broader constituency, then demand for benefits could grow more rapidly, requiring larger changes.
As the San Francisco Fed note puts it, disability insurance "is likely to keep expanding unless program rules and incentives are fundamentally altered."

        
Long-Term Jobless: Still a Bleak Picture
        
Much Ado About ... Well, Maybe Not Much
        
This Time, Economy Is Overshadowed
        
For the Markets, a Steady Outlook
        
Manufacturing Still Looks O.K.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); TRENDS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (88%); WOMEN WORKERS (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (76%); WOMEN (75%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (73%) Disability Insurance; Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco; Labor and Jobs

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF SAN FRANCISCO (83%)

ORGANIZATION: Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (83%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2013



799 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 385 words

HEADLINE: When Brevity Is the Soul of Wall Street Research

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: The gloom over Wall Street in recent days has prompted lots of commentary from analysts trying to make sense of the markets. But for one analyst, a single word did the trick. 

 BODY:
The gloom over Wall Street in recent days has prompted lots of commentary from analysts trying to make sense of the markets.
But for one analyst, a single word did the trick on Monday: "Sell." 
 That was the content of a research note that Carter Braxton Worth, chief market technician at Oppenheimer, sent to clients Monday morning. No elaboration, no qualification. Just, sell.
"We have no new thoughts," Mr. Worth's note said.
Investors have been on edge since Wednesday, when Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, described how the central bank would reduce the stimulus it has pumped into the financial system. That set off a wave of selling in markets around the world, causing stocks, bonds and other investments to tumble in value.
The jitters continued on Monday, with the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index down 1.2 percent. United States government bond prices, however, pared some losses during the day.
For Mr. Worth, the selling seemed to validate an argument he has been making for several months, that stocks are overdue for a significant correction. But rather than gloat, Mr. Worth chose concision.
"I'm almost tired of my own voice," he told DealBook in an interview.
"I was trying to be as emphatic as I could by just being terse," he continued. "There's an expression: exaggeration weakens argument."
His thesis at the end of the day Monday remained the same as in the morning, that stocks have further to fall. "Once you're down 5 percent, you typically go down more," Mr. Worth said.
In his research note, Mr. Worth wrote: "The charts on the pages that follow speak for themselves."
As promised, the subsequent pages featured charts of stocks, commodities and other assets, meant to illustrate the bearish sentiment that has recently taken hold.
The research note stood out for its brevity. Typically, analysts spend paragraphs and even pages expounding on market and economic indicators for the benefit of their clients.
But the pithiness of Mr. Worth's note moved one blogger, the investment adviser Joshua M. Brown, to declare it the "Greatest. Research Note. Ever."
"At some point there is no point... in saying anything more," Mr. Worth wrote.
C.B. Worth - &quot;Money in Motion&quot;

        
Economists Are Asking: Did Bernanke Tip Fed's Hand?
        
Obama Says Bernanke Has Stayed 'Longer Than He Wanted'

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CENTRAL BANKS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (71%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (69%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (68%) Bernanke, Ben S; Federal Reserve System; Research; Stocks and Bonds; Financial Services; Investment Banking

ORGANIZATION: Federal Reserve System

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (89%) Bernanke, Ben S

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2013



800 of 991 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Well)

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2013

SECTION: HEALTH

LENGTH: 1174 words

HEADLINE: Clues in the Cycle of Suicide

BYLINE: DAVID DOBBS


HIGHLIGHT: Contrary to popular belief, suicide rates tend to increase in spring, not winter, and scientists are looking at a possible link to inflammation. 

 BODY:
On average, about 700 Americans kill themselves each week - but in the fine-weather weeks of May and June, the toll rises closer to 800, sometimes higher. Every year, suicide peaks with the tulips and lilacs - increasing roughly 15 percent over the annual average to create one of psychiatry's most consistent epidemiological patterns. It may seem perverse that the period of spring and early summer, as the psychologist Kay Redfield Jamison puts it in her splendid book "Night Falls Fast," should contain "a capacity for self-murder that winter less often has." Yet it does.
This grim spring growth confounds conventional belief that suicides peak in winter. It also confounds researchers - and fascinates them. As they discover more angles into the biology of mood and behavior, they are finding new clues about why suicides rise with the sun's arc. They hope solving this puzzle will help us better understand why people commit suicide at all - and perhaps reduce the numbers year-round. 
This effort takes an extra urgency from what Dr. Adam Kaplin, a psychiatrist at Johns Hopkins University, calls a "suicide epidemic" - a sharp increase in both absolute and per-capita rates since the recession that began in 2007, particularly among the middle-aged. More than 38,000 people committed suicide in the United States in 2010 - a 16.5 percent jump from the 32,600 suicides five years before, and a new high. The stakes involved in figuring out the dynamics of self-murder seem only to rise with time.
The spring surge in suicides is actually the largest of a few oscillations throughout the year. After dropping to an annual low in February (October in the southern hemisphere), rates climb sharply through spring; fall slowly in summer; show a slight rise, according to some studies, in fall; and then begin a steep winter drop. The spring peak generally runs 10 to 25 percent above the yearly average and 20 to 50 percent above the February low.
The spring increase was first noticed in 19th-century Europe. Many studies, some examining data hundreds of years back, have documented it since. But explaining it has proved difficult, primarily because of suicide's extreme complexity.
"There's no one reason that people do it," said Nadine Kaslow, a research psychologist at Emory University. Rather, she says, people usually commit suicide because personal, social-system and environmental factors combine to push them to a new place of energized despair.
In this view, spring somehow adds weight to an already unbearable load. But how?
One traditional candidate, favored by both Dr. Jamison and Dr. Kaslow, is the "broken promise effect" - the sometimes crushing disappointment that spring fails to bring the relief the sufferer has hoped for.
In addition, psychiatrists have long observed that for patients with bipolar disorder and depression, spring can create a manic agitation that amplifies the risk of suicide - agitation that has long shown itself in a rising rate of hospitalizations for suicide attempts and for manic or schizophrenic episodes in spring and summer.
Researchers have long suspected that this may be tied to the springtime drop in the sleep-friendly hormone melatonin, a reduction that energizes us for spring's longer days but may sometimes help generate dangerous agitation. Yet that link, like many, remains elusive.
In the past decade or so, some researchers have increasingly focused on another candidate: an apparently intimate relationship between suicide and inflammation.
Dr. Kaplin studies depression in patients with multiple sclerosis, an autoimmune inflammatory disease. In M.S., he says, depression and inflammation feed each other: Even after accounting for the psychological effects of any serious illness, M.S. heightens depression risk, and depression amplifies the inflammation central to the disease's central pathologies.
Driving this relationship, Dr. Kaplin suspects, are immune-system chemical messengers called cytokines. Some cytokines increase inflammation, while others curb it.
Inflammatory cytokines play crucial roles in fighting infection, but they can also cause problems. When people with hepatitis C are given the cytokine interferon to help fight the infection, for instance, up to 40 percent become depressed and one in 50 attempt suicide. Other studies suggest that inflammatory cytokine activity reduces levels of the neurotransmitter serotonin and halts the growth of new brain cells - two hallmarks of depression.
If inflammation heightens the risk of depression, how might that lead to a spring surge in suicide?
Dr. Kaplin and others point to several possibilities - "all speculative," he says, not findings to act on but clues to follow. In every case, the suggested risk comes not from a direct effect but from an additional sensitivity to inflammation that could be a final straw or irritant.
One possibility is that many people enter spring sensitized to inflammation by late-winter battles with seasonal infections like colds and flu.
A second possibility involves tree pollen. Dr. Teodor T. Postolache, a psychiatrist at the University of Maryland, believes that large amounts of it may cause cytokine-driven inflammatory responses. A study he did links high spring tree pollen counts with high seasonal suicide rates; another examined the brains of 34 suicide victims and found gene-expression patterns consistent with cytokine-driven inflammation.
Yet another possibility involves vitamin D. The low levels caused by lack of sunlight in the winter are thought to lead to inflammation; one recent study tentatively suggested a link to suicide. Dr. Kaplin thus wonders if people already at risk for suicide may increase their risk if they enter spring with inflammatory systems sensitized by vitamin D deficiencies.
"The answer to this puzzle is probably some form of 'all of the above,' " he said.
Even if these inflammatory factors prove out, they will be just some among many - mood disorders, divorce, job loss, grief, trauma - that fertilize spring's darkest bloom. But the more factors researchers can identify, the better we can understand not just the spring surge but the larger mysteries of suicide.
Still, if researchers are ever to identify the seasonal culprits, they may need to hurry. One of the most intriguing findings in the seasonality of suicide is that this ancient pattern appears to be fading - possibly because we all spend more time indoors.
A study of Switzerland's well-kept monthly suicide records between 1880 and 2000, for instance, showed the spring/summer curve growing flatter with each successive 30-year period. Like too many lives lost as we struggle to comprehend suicide, this spring surge may slip away before we can fully glean its unique offerings.
David Dobbs is working on a book about the genetic and cultural roots of temperament and behavior. Follow @David_Dobbs on Twitter. 

        
When the Bully Is a Sibling
        
Shaking Off Loneliness
        
Are 'Hot Hands' in Sports a Real Thing?
        
How Therapy Can Help in the Golden Years
        
How Meditation Might Boost Your Test Scores

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SUICIDE (94%); PSYCHOLOGY (90%); PSYCHIATRY (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (88%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (88%); MENTAL ILLNESS (77%); BIPOLAR DISORDER (77%); EPIDEMICS (76%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (71%) Psychology and Psychologists; Seasons and Months; Suicides and Suicide Attempts; Featured; Mind

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2013

 
