

1 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Part 2; Column 1; Home Design Magazine; Pg. 76

LENGTH: 960 words

HEADLINE: The Pavilionaire 

BYLINE:  By ANDREW SOLOMON; Andrew Solomon is the author of "The Noonday Demon," to be published in June by Scribner.

 BODY:
If you've somehow grown tired of palaces, spacious ballrooms or other manifestations of your own grandeur, Jeffrey Cayle will build you a simple little hut. He is a designer of relaxed places, where you go to dissociate and unwind and think peaceful thoughts, and where you never need invite an unwanted guest. Though Cayle has turned into an architect of nature, his first jobs were in set design, and the stagecraft of his structures is unmistakable: they whimsically marry the pastoral and the theatrical. With twigs woven into them, thick rafters and funny-size windows in unlikely places, they appear as if they had sprung from the earth. They are like treehouses without the trees, or the Unabomber's shed without the Unabomber: a permanent and luxurious Outward Bound in your own backyard. 
 Lest you mistake one for a summer-camp cabin, Cayle accessorizes them with a modicum of glamour: in one, a crystal chandelier may hang anomalously from the beams; another may be completely fitted in handmade willow furniture. Cayle always includes a bed. "These are places for sound sleeping or a tryst," the 43-year-old Colorado native says. "I hate those mini-castles in the Hamptons. People don't know what they want, so they surround themselves with everything they can buy." 
 These sorts of architectural follies are hardly radical, but are rarely visible, since their roots are more European than American. The upper classes of 18th- and 19th-century England, Ireland, France, Germany and Czechoslovakia often built simple pavilions for their amusement on their estates, but the idea was too enmeshed with class to catch on in the United States. Thomas Jefferson went to the D 1/8sert de Retz, one of the greatest follies in France, in 1786. While it had bearing on his subsequent adventures in architecture, America was too fresh-faced to embrace such studied simplicity.
The most famous proponent of such follies was Marie Antoinette. She didn't much care for court life at Versailles, so she commanded her landscape designers and architects to build an imitation peasant village, Le Petit Hameau, on the royal grounds. For herself, she took over a little palace called the Petit Trianon, where she covered the walls with straw, placed straw mats on the floors and had the vases filled with wild field flowers. She wore only white when there. 
Such affected carrying on eventually led the little queen to the guillotine, but that has not prevented others from following in her footsteps, though they do not carry things quite so far. To the best of my knowledge, Vogue's creative director, Grace Coddington, has not been found flirtatiously churning butter; Daryl Hannah has not taken to wearing a shepherdess outfit to stroll the lawns; the photographer Bruce Weber is not practicing a "simple gliding step of incomparable grace" (as a visitor to Petit Trianon described Marie Antoinette); and neither Bill Blass nor Alexander Vreeland has proposed that the people eat cake. These people have all, however, commissioned rustic huts from Cayle. 
Cayle began his own experiments in back-to-nature housing about 15 years ago, and now he does it nearly full time. He describes his creations as "garden-structure getaways," though a few of them are rigged with telephones that can make your time with nature oddly similar to your time in civilization. "They're simple," he says, "and I try to make them organic. They let you get away from the overload and to feel what's around you." His design process is similarly organic: "I come into a place and I try to find something that really inspires me, like a color or a certain type of wood. I don't plan it out, because I want it to develop as I build. I never do architectural drawings -- some doodles maybe, but nothing too fancy. I get a bunch of artists and craftsmen and carpenters and we just build this stuff."
Blass wanted a thatched roof. Weber has sod, with all the grass growing on it like velvet. "The building has to grow from the materials," Cayle says. "I'll often use some retrieved materials from old buildings, too." But simplicity is in the eye of the beholder. Weber also wanted an outdoor gunite "swimming hole," which he likes to keep warm on those cool Montana nights, so Cayle built an underground mechanical room to house the soaking system for the sod, as well as the heater for the pool. Nor is construction always a relaxed affair. For a treehouse in the Adirondacks, the crew worked 22 days straight through the black-fly season, covered in netting, to finish the structure in time for the Fourth of July weekend.
In her book "Follies and Grottoes," the scholar Barbara Jones writes: "It is built for pleasure, and pleasure is personal, difficult to define.* Folly seems a bad name, for folly is deliberate, and to be foolish one must know what is sensible; the men who built follies put them up quite seriously.* Follies come from money and security and peace." She continues: "The most isolated English cottage is set in civilisation, with a bit of garden and a path, but follies are jungly and embowered in brambles.* They are cut off from worldly contacts, and lose all humanity, becoming more mineral than artifact, resolving into stones again." 
Cayle's projects, novel though they may seem, are the perfect heirs to this grand tradition. His pavilions flirt with excess while giving the appearance of frugality. They are contradictions, and in the late decadence of the fading Clinton economy, this kind of ostentation via simplicity somehow recaptures the imagination of jaded urbanites. In crossing Thoreau with the fantasies of European aristocracy, and a touch of the Japanese teahouse, Cayle has come up with an exotic escape that is often no farther than your own backyard. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: This page and opposite: the sod-roof pool house in Montana that Cayle made for the photographer Bruce Weber is built of logs from dead trees clawed by bears. The open living area can be tented off by canvas shades hung behind the inner columns. The heated concrete pool wastinted gray to resemble an abandoned foundation. Water spills off its end into a trough, where it is recirculated.; This page and opposite: in Grace Coddington and Didier Malige's East Hampton sleeping pavilion, the wainscoting and hand-hewn beams are from an old Elks lodge. The iron bed is from an antiques store.; This outbuilding in southwest Colorado contains the heating and electrical systems for the main house nearby. Outdoors is a hot tub, a solar-heated shower and a horse-trough bathtub for two. (Didier Malige)(Jeffrey Cayle); 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (77%); VISUAL ARTS (77%); LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE SERVICES (77%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (76%); COSTUME & SET DESIGN (71%) INTERIOR DESIGN; ARCHITECTURE 

ORGANIZATION: OUTWARD BOUND (56%)

PERSON: CAYLE, JEFFREY; SOLOMON, ANDREW 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); FRANCE (86%); ENGLAND (78%); GERMANY (54%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2001 



2 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1356 words

HEADLINE: Worth More Than It Costs 

BYLINE:  By Margo Jefferson; Margo Jefferson is an arts critic for The Times.

 BODY:
 On Her Own Ground
The Life and Times
of Madam C. J. Walker.
By A'Lelia Bundles.
Illustrated. 415 pp. New York:
A Lisa Drew Book/Scribner. $30.
 HAIR: We are not content to let it lie quietly on our heads, but must color, cut, crimp, straighten, braid, supplement and adorn with plastic, shell, bone, metal, silk, velvet and every kind of hat. For women, it is mythology, obsession, religion and sport. What culture does not have some version of the old adage about hair as a woman's glory? Hair connotes standards of beauty, taste, power, money, class and caste. For black women, whose nonstraight, wavy or curly hair was considered yet another sure marker of racial inferiority, Madam C. J. Walker brought hope in jars that helped them grow and "cultivate" their hair. Her formula, combined with the hot metal comb invented by a Frenchman in 1870, gave hair a resilience and an appearance of straightness that allowed black women to wear the popular styles of the day, from Gibson girl to bob-haired flapper. 
Walker's biographer and great-great granddaughter, A'Lelia Bundles, does not overestimate her importance when she calls Walker one of the pioneers in her use of direct sales (the Fuller Brush Company was founded in 1906, the same year as Walker's), marketing strategies and commissions. Bundles writes: "As an early advocate of women's economic independence she provided lucrative incomes for thousands of African-American women who otherwise would have been consigned to jobs as farm laborers, washerwomen and maids." Walker's philanthropy ranged from the virtuous Y.W.C.A. to the radical N.A.A.C.P.; she began her career soliciting Booker T. Washington's approval and ended it working with W. E. B. Du Bois, Monroe Trotter and Ida B. Wells-Barnett. Shortly before she died in 1919, she planned to organize her sales agents into local clubs that could use their economic clout to protest lynching and other civil rights abuses while improving conditions in their communities. 
Bundles's well-paced and well-written book, "On Her Own Ground: The Life and Times of Madam C. J. Walker," is as much social history as biography, filled with the detail and texture of culture and politics. And rightly so, for Walker's life encompassed Reconstruction, the Gilded Age and World War I. She moved from the kind of poverty that usually ensures anonymity to a 34-room mansion in upstate New York, near the big show houses of John D. Rockefeller and Jay Gould; from visits to Tiffany's for diamond jewelry to plans for attending the International Paris Peace Conference in 1919 with a group of blacks determined to lobby for African independence -- which won her a place in the Military Intelligence Division's file of "Negro subversives."
She was born Sarah Breedlove in Delta, La., in 1867. Her parents were laborers on the same plantation where they had been slaves, and Sarah labored beside them, chopping and picking cotton. She got about three months of schooling. The rights that Reconstruction had so briefly granted blacks were being snatched away. The Freedmen's Bureau disbanded its education division. And two offshoots of the original Ku Klux Klan were founded nearby, the lyrically named Knights of the White Camellia and the curtly named White League.
Orphaned at the age of 7, Sarah lived with a cruel brother-in-law and a passive sister. "I married at the age of 14 in order to get a home of my own," she later said. She was a mother by 17 and a widow by 20. In 1888 she took her 3-year-old daughter, A'Lelia, and headed north, like thousands of blacks who were fleeing violence and looking for opportunity. For more than half of the employed black women in St. Louis, opportunity meant work as a washerwoman. Sarah did that for 10 years, moving from boardinghouse to boardinghouse.
What Bundles calls Walker's "scrupulously crafted life story" began in 1903, when, as she told it so many times afterward, Sarah found herself going bald. (Most rural and poor urban women knew nothing about hair hygiene. They would wash their clothes and scrub their tenement floors, but they might wash their hair once a month.) She prayed to the Lord for guidance, she said, and one night in a dream, "a big black man appeared to me and told me what to mix for my hair. Some of the remedy was from Africa, but I sent for it, mixed it, put it on my scalp and in a few weeks my hair was coming in faster than it had ever fallen out." After trying it out on her daughter and a neighbor she decided to sell her formula; it was "inspiration from God," a gift to be placed "in the reach of those who appreciate beautiful hair and healthy scalps which is the glory of woman."
The actual story wasn't quite so visionary or simple. Walker began as an agent for the black businesswoman she eventually outstripped, Annie Pope-Turbo, whose Poro School of Beauty Culture was already well established in St. Louis. (And whose products, Bundles writes, probably helped Sarah's hair grow back.) In 1906 she headed for Denver, armed with Poro products and a third husband, C. J. Walker. She had her own company by 1906 and a divorce by 1912. Helped by her daughter (who much preferred to party but did her best to please mother), Walker took her Wonderful Hair Grower across the country, selling it, setting up shops and training women in her hair-care methods. By 1907, the washerwoman who had earned $300 a year was earning $300 a month. When she died, of kidney disease, her net worth of $600,000 made her a millionaire in myth, not fact. But that sum, the equivalent of $6 million today, did make her one of the richest businesswomen in America.
Walker was a brilliant publicist. When she spoke of her fears or needs, her tone was unyieldingly crisp: "I was at my washtubs one morning . . . and looked at my arms buried in soapsuds. I said to myself: 'What are you going to do when you grow old and your back gets stiff? Who is going to take care of your little girl?' That set me to thinking, but with all my thinking I couldn't see how I, a poor washerwoman, was going to better my condition." But she grew pithy when she talked business; she enjoyed her own toughness. "Everybody told me I was making a mistake by going into this business, but I know how to grow hair as well as I know how to grow cotton," she declared. And: "My advice to every one expecting to go into business is to hit often and hit hard; in other words, strike with all your might."
She was a genuine philanthropist who put her money where her beliefs were -- and that money included the advertisements that helped A. Philip Randolph start his socialist magazine, The Messenger. (Randolph's wife, Lucille, helped run the magazine but was also a trained Walker agent.) But she was not above turning accusations of "undue extravagance" into race testimonials, telling critics that her mansion, Villa Lewaro -- a pleasure dome with a stucco facade of marble dust and white sand, whose treasures included a Louis XVI chamber suite, an Estey organ and Rodin sculptures -- was "a Negro institution," built to show the race "what a lone woman accomplished and to inspire them to do big things." There is truth here, and there is disingenuousness. Both are fascinating and I wish that instead of presenting them, Bundles had analyzed the relation between them. She suggests that Walker evolved her own version of Andrew Carnegie's "gospel of wealth," which deemed surplus wealth "a sacred trust to be administered for the good of the community in which it is accumulated." An interesting parallel, and Bundles might have further analyzed a woman who had the ruthlessness of a capitalist and the conscience of a progressive. And Bundles need not have been so euphemistic about that fact that in the process of cultivating black hair, Walker's products did, in fact, straighten it. There was a time, especially in the 1960's and 70's, when Walker was accused of fostering black self-hatred. Now, artificially straightened hair is just another option. I am sure that today Madam C. J. Walker would be marketing those treatments for artificially kinked and frizzed hair that have become so popular.

GRAPHIC: Photos: At top, Madam C. J. Walker once before and twice after discovering her hair care products. Below, an early packaging of the hair grower itself. (A'lelia Bundles/Walker family collection/from "On Her Own Ground") 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WOMEN (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); WRITERS (77%); LITERATURE (72%); HISTORY (71%); CIVIL RIGHTS (71%); COMPANY STRATEGY (70%); SALES FORCE (70%); DIRECT TO HOME RETAILING (70%); GRANDCHILDREN (67%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (66%); MARKETING STRATEGY (65%); WORLD WAR I (60%); FARM LABOR (52%); PEACE PROCESS (50%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

COMPANY: FULLER BRUSH CO (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339994 BROOM, BRUSH & MOP MANUFACTURING (67%); SIC3991 BROOMS & BRUSHES (67%)

PERSON: JAY ROCKEFELLER (50%) JEFFERSON, MARGO; BUNDLES, A'LELIA; WALKER, C J (1867-1919) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2001 



3 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 3; Book Review Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1073 words

HEADLINE: Even Baboons Get the Blues 

BYLINE:  By Rob Nixon; Rob Nixon is the author of "Dreambirds: The Strange History of the Ostrich in Fashion, Food, and Fortune."

 BODY:
 A Primate's Memoir
By Robert M. Sapolsky.
304 pp. New York:
Scribner. $25.
 ROBERT M. SAPOLSKY had the good sense, from a writer's point of view, to do a lot of crazy things while he was young. Most of them involved baboons. The week he graduated from Harvard, he set out for the plains of southwestern Kenya, where he was to follow a baboon troop on and off for more than 20 years. He did so both in his professional capacity as an animal behaviorist and in his less professional capacity as one of the troop's low-ranking males.
As a boy, entranced by the primate-filled dioramas at the Museum of Natural History in New York, he dreamed of morphing into a mountain gorilla. But his letter to Dian Fossey met with silence, and his scientific curiosity steered him toward questions of social organization that no forest primate could answer. Sapolsky resigned himself to abandoning all gorilla aspirations: "You make compromises in life; not every kid can grow up to become president or a baseball star or a mountain gorilla. So I made plans to join the baboon troop."
Sapolsky's earlier works, "Why Zebras Don't Get Ulcers" and "The Trouble With Testosterone," established him as one of the finest natural history writers around. "A Primate's Memoir" consolidates that reputation while offering something more. This time we are also treated to the nonfiction counterpart of a Bildungsroman, a portrait of the field biologist as a young man. The book's life flows largely from the youthful Sapolsky's penchant for throwing himself at the world and weighing the consequences later. Case in point: what specific aspect of his fancy education can help him escape a cave that he finds himself sharing with a large, drugged baboon and an impala (half-eaten, but alive enough to keep kicking him in the head)? His strategy also has to accommodate the baboon troop that's massing at the cave's entrance and hollering for impala blood.
Sapolsky has a bent for comedy that triumphs in quick, sly asides. Consider, for example, his introduction of a baboon baby he calls Obadiah: "This was one weird-looking kid. He had a narrow head and long stringy hair that formed an elongated wing in the rear; he looked like a dissipated fin de siecle Viennese neurotic." At times, however, Sapolsky spins off into long (sometimes page-long) riffs, and the effect is like being cornered by a host who's overeager to assure you that you're in for a good time -- when you just wish he'd let you size up the territory for yourself. Fortunately, as the book gathers pace, this strained joviality abates and Sapolsky does what he does best, trust his readers and his stories. And with good reason, since his stories are remarkable.
What impresses is their sheer variety: a camp hand spends an ill-judged night in the meat-storage tent and gets into a tangle with a hyena; a Masai employee, disdainful of Sapolsky's sugared ices, decides to invent the cow's-blood ice instead. Feeling adventurous, Sapolsky journeys to the Ugandan source of the Nile only months after the fall of Idi Amin. He later races up the Ruwenzori mountains with a malevolent guide who he suspects may have been party to Dian Fossey's murder. Sapolsky also sketches lively portraits of a wide range of figures, from Fossey to a Kenyan autodidact who wields his education against his brutal ranger-turned-poacher father. And he introduces us to the scams, cross-cultural blunders and chance delights of East African camp life. En route, he muses on everything from anthropomorphism and cultural relativism to how the Kenyan park system has declined beneath the weight of poverty, corruption and a rapacious tourist economy.
But the adventures that Sapolsky recreates in "A Primate's Memoir" are undergirded by a serious scientific intent: a study of male stress. Years of baboon observation prompt him to challenge the prevailing view that "testosterone plus aggression equals social dominance." Instead, he deduces that in a stable hierarchy, low-ranking males -- the ones who fight most frequently over status -- exhibit higher testosterone levels (and are more prone to stress-related disease) than the dominant baboons. Moreover, regardless of rank, the lowest stress hormone levels among males appear among those that engage regularly in social grooming and other nonaggressive contact with troop members.
Ultimately, Sapolsky finds he has to factor in something as quirky as personality. Take the case of Nick, stressed-out, mid-ranking, type-A Nick. One day, trying to make a move up the hierarchy, Nick picks a fight with Reuben, who quickly signals defeat by sticking his bottom in the air. Nick pretends to play by the rules, which dictate that he saunter over for a victorious but noninjurious sniff. Instead, he gives Reuben a nasty bite across his peacefully raised buttocks. Sapolsky the scientist and Sapolsky the layman concur: Nick is one mean sucker.
THE memoir's emotional drama builds in large part around Sapolsky's efforts to reconcile these two versions of himself. Sometimes he needs to regard the troop with clinical dispassion -- in the guise of a Stanford professor who publishes papers on the dynamics of bovine tuberculosis transmission in the olive baboon, Papio anubis, in The Journal of Medical Primatology. But he is also a man who has come to know these animals intimately and to feel great affection for them, someone who, when he learns in the book's wrenching finale that Daniel, Absolom, Benjamin and other favorites have been felled by that same tuberculosis, struggles to devise a ritual way to grieve. He fails. And he stays haunted to the end: "These baboons only remain as ashes in my head."
One closes his book a lot more knowledgeable about plenty of baboon-related matters. But mostly one has already begun to miss the company of this sometimes cranky but always impassioned, learned and winningly irreverent man. What more can we ask of a writer than that he draw us into the charmed circle of his obsessions? That much (and more) Sapolsky has done in a book that achieves an almost Homeric emotional range. Sapolsky steeps us in baboon-land variants of heroism, lamentation, vengeance and loneliness in a plot thickened with kidnappings, trysts, betrayals, out-of-the-blue tenderness, palace coups and sundry wars of attrition. "A Primate's Memoir" is the closest the baboon is likely to come -- and it's plenty close enough -- to having its own "Iliad." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); PRIMATES (91%); WRITERS (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); LITERATURE (78%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (78%); BASEBALL (70%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (70%); HISTORY (69%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (69%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

PERSON: NIXON, ROB; SAPOLSKY, ROBERT M 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) KENYA (91%); UNITED STATES (90%)

TITLE: PRIMATE'S MEMOIR, A (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2001 



4 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 902 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY: CORRESPONDENT'S REPORT; 
New Flights Are a Sign Of Confidence in Asia

BYLINE:  By DAVID LEONHARDT 

 BODY:
UNITED AIRLINES is declaring its confidence in the Asian travel market today, with an expansion it hopes does not end up looking like an April Fool's joke. United is reinstating its around-the-world service -- which it suspended in spring 1999 because of Asia's financial crisis -- by adding flights from London to New Delhi and New Delhi to Hong Kong. 
 The carrier will also inaugurate a 15-hour flight over the North Pole, from Kennedy Airport in New York to Hong Kong, and begin flying from Chicago to Beijing. The airline -- the world's largest and the American carrier that takes the most passengers to Asia -- will also add two more trips each week between San Francisco and Shanghai, giving it daily service on that route. 
 Some of the flights will come about because of new trade agreements between the United States and other countries, but at the heart of United's expansion is a confidence among its executives that Asia has emerged from its worst economic problems.
As an example, they say, tourism has been booming across Asia for much of the last two years. 
More people visited Cambodia and Thailand last year than in 1999, according to reports from the Pacific Asia Travel Association. Cathay Pacific, the Hong Kong-based, airline, plans to increase its fleet by more than 20 percent this year, and Garuda Indonesia and Philippine Airlines are expanding, too. 
Northwest Airlines, the second largest American carrier in Asia, says that it filled 82 percent of its seats over the Pacific last year, up from 76 percent in 1998. On March 1, Continental began the first nonstop service between the New York area and Hong Kong, a 16-hour flight between Newark and Chek Lap Kok International Airport.
Adding all these new flights carries some risk, however. Asia's economies, while healthier than a few years ago, have generally weakened in the early months of 2001. Last month, Japan Airlines said that it planned to cut 4,200 jobs over the next two years, partly in reaction to the slowing world economy.
The worst scenario for travel companies would be a repeat of the late 90's, when they expanded just before tourism declined dramatically. In those years, as Asian currencies lost value, businesses in South Korea halted many trips overnight and Americans and Europeans grew wary of going to the region, in spite of the low prices, because of the turmoil. 
"When people hear there is a crisis in Asia, they avoid Asia," said Lily Shum, the Americas regional director of the Hong Kong Tourist Association. 
The crisis came after years of manic hotel building, designed to capitalize on what was supposed to be the world's fastest economic growth for years to come. At the same time, a new aviation pact in 1998 between Japan and the United States allowed for dozens of new flights a week across the Pacific.
"You had this huge bump in the number of seats at the same time traffic declined," said Stuart Oran, senior vice president of the international division of the UAL Corporation, the parent of United, which had operating profits in Asia of $405 million in 1997 and just $49 million the next year. "We still haven't absorbed all of the new seats."
The oversupply helped put Sempati Air of Indonesia and Saega Airlines of Malaysia out of business in the late 90's.
But now, many countries are receiving more visitors than they did before the crisis. When figures from last year are all counted, the number of visitors to Singapore may surpass 7.5 million, which would be the most ever, according to early estimates from the Pacific Asia Travel Association. The number had dropped 13 percent between 1997 and 1998, to 6.2 million.
Cambodia, China, South Korea and Thailand also may set records when tallies are completed for 2000. Countries with less stable political situations, like Indonesia and the Philippines, have been slower to recover, tourism officials say. United stopped flying to Manila during the economic crisis and has not returned.
Absent a serious economic downturn, however, the Asian travel market is likely to remain much healthier than it was a few years ago, and bargains have become harder to find as a result. 
In Hong Kong, hotel rates increased about 9 percent last year, to an average of $107, after having fallen more than 40 percent in the previous two years, according to the Hong Kong Tourist Association. And mirroring a rise in air fares across the region, Cathay now charges $1,200 for its three-week pass for unlimited Asian travel, up from $1,000 in 1999. (People who buy the pass over the Internet and agree to receive e-mail advertisements from Cathay still pay $1,000, the airline says.
Liberalized trade agreements and new airports are driving the boom. Last year, the United States agreed on the framework for its first multilateral aviation pact, deciding with Brunei, Chile, New Zealand and Singapore to halt restrictions on flights among those nations. 
Russia is allowing more flights over the North Pole, a route that can save two hours between Asia and North America. And a huge airport in Inchon, South Korea, about 35 miles from Seoul, was to be officially opened Thursday, joining new airports in Beijing, Hong Kong, Shanghai and Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
It will all make for more convenient travel across the Pacific. But unless the airlines are overly optimistic about the region's economic health, the big bargains of the late 90's may be harder to find. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); AIR SERVICE (90%); AIRPORTS (89%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); AVIATION TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (75%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (73%); TOURISM (73%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); CURRENCIES (68%); LAYOFFS (61%); TRAVEL AGENTS (50%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (85%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: PACIFIC ASIA TRAVEL ASSOCIATION (55%) UNITED AIRLINES 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (85%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (58%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%)

PERSON: LEONHARDT, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); EAST CHINA (79%) ASIA (98%); HONG KONG (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); THAILAND (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); INDONESIA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (52%) FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2001 



5 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1943 words

HEADLINE: The Sound Of New Music Is Often Chinese; 
The Offspring Of a Grim Revolution

BYLINE:  By SHEILA MELVIN and JINDONG CAI; Sheila Melvin is a freelance writer who was based in Shanghai and now lives in Baton Rouge, La. Jindong Cai conducts at Louisiana State University and is a regular guest conductor of the Shanghai Symphony.

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
WHEN the Central Conservatory here reopened its doors in 1977, after the 10 barren years of the Cultural Revolution, it received applications from 18,000 musicians across China.
 "We had only 100 spaces," said Wu Zuqiang, a composer and former dean of the Central Conservatory. "We accepted 100, but then we accepted 100 more. We had nowhere to put them, but it was such a shame not to take them." 
 Selecting 200 of 18,000 musicians desperate to pursue the professional study that had for a decade been denied them was no easy task, but the conservatory chose well. Indeed, the roster of composition graduates from that 1977 class includes the names of several composers internationally prominent today: the recent Academy Award winner Tan Dun, Chen Yi, Zhou Long, Guo Wenjing, Qu Xiaosong, Ye Xiaogang. Yet paradoxically, they are far better known in the United States and Europe than in their native country. Until recently, their music was rarely heard in China. 
During the 1980's and much of the 90's, anyone wishing to hear contemporary Chinese music might have been better off going to Europe, where the Nieuw Ensemble in Amsterdam and the Festival d'Automne in Paris were leading the way in presenting works of Chinese composers. Similarly, anyone wishing to meet these composers in person would have been more likely to find them in New York than in Beijing. To this day, those wishing to purchase recordings or scores of their music need to look somewhere other than China, where even the biggest music companies do not publish, record or sell works of Chinese composers.
"There are now many Chinese composers, but very little of their music gets played in China, either of the composers who left or the ones who stayed," said Wang Xilin, a Beijing composer. "Chinese orchestras don't perform Chinese pieces. They perform only foreign pieces. To publish a score or a compact disc takes 20 years. Nobody cares about composers. Conductors get cars. We get bikes."
But in the last few years, the situation has started to improve. The prestige of Chinese composers outside China has begun to be recognized here, perhaps kick-started by the nationwide telecast of Tan Dun's "Heaven, Earth, Mankind," which was commissioned for ceremonies commemorating the return of Hong Kong to Chinese sovereignty in 1997.
Mr. Tan returned to China twice last year to conduct performances of his works, and his name, if not his music, is now widely recognized. The China National Symphony this year began a series called Dream of China, dedicated to works of contemporary Chinese composers, and has held concerts of music by Chen Yi and Bright Sheng. The Hong Kong Philharmonic is featuring more music by Chinese composers. New-music ensembles now exist in Beijing and Shanghai. And most encouraging of all, young composers are choosing to stay in China, and more experienced composers who did emigrate are returning to compose and teach.
As a result, contemporary music in China is entering new territory. Composers no longer look solely outside China for guidance, as they looked to the West for the last 20 years and to the Soviet Union before that. Instead, they are delving deeper into their own musical roots and seeking inspiration in Chinese traditions. In the process, many are fundamentally re-evaluating long-held perceptions about both Western classical and traditional Chinese music. The going is not always easy. Composers in China still face economic, cultural and political constraints that would be hard to imagine in the West. But for the first time in the history of Communist China, a significant number of composers are working on a level field with composers outside China.
"Many composers complain that Chinese orchestras don't play Chinese composers' work, but this is changing," said Guo Wen jing, the chairman of the composition department at the Central Conservatory, whom many consider the best composer in China. "Also, commissions have started to improve in television, movies, orchestras. There are many more opportunities in China than there used to be."
Mr. Guo is perhaps the only Chinese composer who has established an international career without having lived outside China for an extended period. His first international commission came from the Nieuw Ensemble in 1991, and he has done other works for it since, including the opera "Wolf Cub Village" in 1994. Another opera, "The Night Banquet," will be performed at the Festival d'Automne this fall and at the Lincoln Center Festival next year.
In his music, Mr. Guo evokes the folk music and opera of his native Sichuan, but in a voice that is decidedly his own. The cries of Yangtze River boatmen, the distinctive timbre of traditional percussion, the extreme range and color of Sichuan opera singing: all are not so much reflected in his compositions as absorbed into them and recreated. But his intimate understanding of southwestern Chinese folk music is not innate.
"Our problem is, we graduate from the conservatory, we know the oboe, we know the flute, but we know nothing about the Chinese flute," he said. "The students in the traditional-music department study Western music, but the students in Western music don't study Chinese traditional music. I think the biggest gain I've made is learning about Chinese traditional music."
Although Chinese symphonic music has long paid homage to traditional Chinese music, its deeper debt has been to Western classical music, especially to the technique taught by Soviet-educated professors in a conservatory system modeled after that of the Soviet Union. Only now, with composers like Mr. Guo coming into positions of authority in the conservatories, are inroads being made in the terrain that separates Western classical and Chinese traditional music. In his teaching, Mr. Guo is helping establish those inroads, but in his composing, he strives to free himself from any theory or tradition whatsoever.
"Ultimately, I want to break away from Western influence and break away from Chinese influence," he said. "I can't do this completely, of course, but I have a goal."
An even more radical approach is being advocated at the Shanghai Conservatory, where Qu Xiaosong returned to teach in 1999 after many years in New York. Together with colleagues like the composer He Xuntian, Mr. Qu is aiming to alter drastically the parameters of conservatory education that he feels have too long been biased toward Western music.
"European music is only one part," Mr. Qu said. "Students should understand Chinese music, too. Chinese and Western music are so different, and of course there are Indian music, African music, so many different traditions."
Mr. Qu has organized Shanghai's first contemporary Chinese music ensemble. After the group's first concert, last November, he told The China Daily that the first step toward a Chinese music renaissance was to wash off the pollution of Western music and return to the purity of classical Chinese music. His own music, like his recent "Mirage," for a vocalist and three percussionists, increasingly embodies that less-is-more philosophy. In the conservatory, he encourages students to compose for Chinese instruments and think independently.
"Conservatories give you the recipes, but how you finally make the dish, that's up to you," he said.
Like Mr. Qu, Ye Xiaogang returned to China after many years in the United States, where he graduated from the Eastman School of Music in Rochester. He teaches at the Central Conservatory, and in 1995 he founded a contemporary-music group, Ensemble Eclipse. Mr. Ye is kept busy with commissions from film studios, orchestras and government bodies like the Shenzhen Propaganda Bureau and the Beijing Culture Bureau.
"My music is played everywhere, and my commissions are very high," he said. "There are so many opportunities here. I'd never have these opportunities in America."
Generous government commissions, often associated with major political celebrations like the 80th anniversary of the Communist Party on July 1, are a new phenomenon in China. Because of the political nature of these commissions, some composers are reluctant to accept them. But music is music, Mr. Ye says, no matter who commissions it.
"I can do whatever I want," he added. "Music cannot be controlled. People's circumstances are all different. If I can earn $1,000 writing a chamber piece for Europe or $35,000 for a piece here, what am I going to do?"
Of course, not all composers working in China have such options. "Younger composers, who came of age after the Cultural Revolution, have different views," said Mr. Wu, of the Central Conservatory. "I often tell them that they caught up with the good times. It was easy to connect with the outside world. It was not the same for us."
True, composers of Mr. Wu's generation, including Luo Zhongrong of Beijing and Zhu Jianer of Shanghai, suffered badly during the Cultural Revolution, but they also had the good times of the 1950's, when many were sent to the Soviet Union to study.
Mr. Zhu, the resident composer of the Shanghai Symphony since 1975, has long supported young composers and contemporary music. Although his own compositions are heavily influenced by folk music of Yunnan, Tibet and Guizhou, he tirelessly explores new ideas and techniques. Politics prevented him from writing his first symphony until 1986, when he was 64; he has since added nine more.
It is the generation after Mr. Zhu's -- including Jin Xiang, whose opera "Savage Land" was performed by the Washington Opera in 1992, and Wang Xilin -- that suffered the most, leaving the conservatory just in time for the Cultural Revolution. Mr. Wang was exiled to rural Shanxi Province for 14 years after his graduation, because he publicly criticized the Maoist dictum that art must serve politics. For much of this time, he worked as a laborer; but for three years, he was imprisoned, made to sleep on the floor and beaten regularly. In 1968, his jailers dragged him to a field in the middle of the night and buried him in a pit up to his neck.
"I thought they were going to bury me alive," he said. "But it was just to scare me. This treatment because I spoke the truth. I didn't steal anything. I didn't hurt anyone. This is when I started thinking about expressing all that in music."
Mr. Wang's music relentlessly recounts the suffering of intellectuals. "I want to tell people about the tragedy and darkness of Chinese history," he said. "This is my music."
Because tragedy and darkness do not suit commissions for celebratory political occasions, and because Mr. Wang speaks his mind in words as well as in music, he finds it harder to get his works played than do composers who avoid politics. And he is often engaged in bitter battles with the authorities.
Few composers still face such political problems. But all must deal with issues like the conservative stance of the Chinese Musicians' Association, the near impossibility of getting scores or recordings published in China, inadequate copyright protection for music, the preference of most orchestras for Western classics, and the small audience for contemporary music.
Still, most composers acknowledge that the environment is much improved and that they are indeed fortunate to have caught up with the good times.
"In 1979, nobody would have believed that so many Chinese composers would be standing on the world stage," said Mr. Guo, the Beijing composer. "Nobody would have believed how many young Chinese musicians would win international prizes. I never dreamed my pieces would be performed in Europe. These last 20 years are so hard to believe, I can't guess what it will be like in 20 more years." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (91%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (67%); RECORD INDUSTRY (64%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (64%) MUSIC 

PERSON: JINDONG CAI; MELVIN, SHEILA; YE XIAOGANG; QU XIAOSONG; GUO WENJING 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (56%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); EAST CHINA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (71%) CHINA (99%); HONG KONG (92%); EUROPE (87%); UNITED STATES (71%); NETHERLANDS (56%) CHINA; RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2001 



6 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1141 words

HEADLINE: COMMUNITIES; 
War Memorial or Soccer Field?

BYLINE:  By JOHN SWANSBURG 

 BODY:
AT Mamaroneck High School, sophomores take a history course known as Global 10. The class begins its journey in 1750 and moves at the frenetic pace necessary to arrive in the present by June. It's usually mid-March by the time students turn their attention to World War II. This March, they are not alone: people throughout the community here are thinking about the war -- and, more broadly, about the relationship between the past and the future. 
 The Board of Education is now preparing a five-year, $49 million plan to improve schools' facilities. Much of the renovation will take place at the high school. In addition to architectural improvements, the plans originally called for rotating the school's football field 90 degrees to make room for a new entrance, safer parking and a soccer field. 
 In order to rotate the field, however, the school would need to relocate the Richard M. Kemper Memorial, a park and monument dedicated to Mamaroneck High students who died in World War II. The memorial has stood near the school's Boston Post Road entrance since 1946. 
The plan to move the memorial has met with staunch opposition from relatives of Richard Kemper, in particular Paul Cantor, Mr. Kemper's nephew, and Mr. Cantor's brother Richard, who was named for his uncle. "We are really outraged," Paul Cantor said. "We are going to fight." 
Because of the family's objections, the board decided recently to postpone the decision on the memorial so as not to delay a vote on the other elements of the plan. It has not, however, scrapped its initial proposal. The board is looking into alternatives to moving the memorial, but the board's president, Ronda Lustman, said its options are limited by the site. The board is therefore also exploring its legal rights, should it choose to proceed over the objections of the Cantor family.
Lt. Richard Kemper, class of 1937, was killed in battle on Aug. 6, 1944, near Mortain, France. Two years later, his father, Adolph Kemper, bought land near the high school where he and his wife, Helen, dedicated a monument bearing the names of the 98 men and one woman from the school who died in the war. 
After the dedication, the Kempers donated the monument and the park to the school district. In the deed, they asked that the land "be held and maintained in perpetuity for public and school uses as a memorial to the late Lt. Richard Kemper, and the other students and former students . . . who gave their lives in the service of the United States of America in World War II." 
The school board and Mr. Kemper's relatives interpret this directive differently.
The school believes it can fulfill its duty by maintaining the monument, but in a new location. Dr. Sherry King, superintendent of schools, said that honoring Adolph Kemper's wishes has always been the school's intention. "But we want to do that with a plan that will speak to the community as it exists now," she said. "I don't think those two goals are mutually exclusive."
Dr. King believes moving the monument would, in fact, increase its presence on the school's grounds. "We are looking at the possibility of moving the memorial to a more central location and to one that would be beautifully landscaped," she said. "Not everyone knows about the memorial, and by moving it we could enhance the whole location for everyone."
For Mr. Kemper's family, however, moving the memorial is simply not an option. "We consider that park sacred," Paul Cantor said.
Mr. Cantor is not alone in his belief. On March 13, Richard Cantor spoke to the Larchmont Historical Society about the memorial's future. Jan Northrup, the society's president, said Mr. Cantor delivered "an incredibly moving speech." The result was a unanimous vote by the society to draft a resolution stating its "unequivocal opposition" to relocating the memorial.
Ms. Northrup said she believed that Adolph Kemper intended the memorial to be composed not just of the monument, but of the entire surrounding park as well. She believes his vision is evident in the language of the deed. "No matter how inconvenient the park is right now, his message couldn't have been any clearer," she said.
The dialogue between the school administration and the Cantor family has been strained from the beginning. The family is upset because it feels the board tried to move ahead with its plans without the family's consent. 
Dr. King said she did not know of the Cantor family at the time the initial plans were drafted, and regrets that the board acted without consulting them. "We have apologized profusely," she said. "The moment we became aware of the Cantor family we reached out to them." 
The Cantors do not live in Mamaroneck, and Paul Cantor, who teaches economics at the University of Massachusetts, admitted that the memorial -- and his family's connection to it -- had been largely forgotten. That is why Mr. Cantor approached the school in August with the hope of reviving the memorial's role in the school community. 
Mr. Cantor met with the principal, Mark Orfinger, and Lorna Minor, the chairwoman of the social studies department, to discuss ideas for making the memorial part of the school's curriculum. Ms. Minor said she was not aware of the memorial's significance. "I've been teaching here for 30 years and I never knew about it," she said. "I knew it was there, but I didn't know what it was."
As soon as the memorial was brought to her attention, Ms. Minor said, she realized it was an untapped resource. "We thought it could help make history come alive," she said. 
Mary Cronin, a history teacher at the school, recently tested Ms. Minor's theory. The day after quizzing her Global 10 class on the battles of World War II, she took them to visit the memorial. Asking her students to quietly reflect, she read the names on the monument out loud. "A couple of times I could feel my voice catch," she said. "You can't help but be moved by it."
Several students shared Ms. Cronin's emotional response. Lucy Malcolm wrote afterward of the experience: "It was very moving. It was very weird to go back to our class and think that those people possibly sat in this room. It was interesting to hear the names because many of the names are familiar to me. I definitely felt some kind of presence being there."
Both Ms. Lustman and Mr. Cantor want students to learn from the memorial, but Ms. Lustman said her duty to the taxpayers also requires her to provide for the many students here who learn on the playing field. Mr. Cantor said that if the board decides to move the monument, the only lesson it will be teaching is that it's acceptable to break a promise.
Ms. Minor hopes that no matter what the outcome, the dispute, like the memorial itself, will provide an opportunity for learning. "It will be very interesting to see how the public debate adds to these historical lessons," she said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Richard M. Kemper Memorial, a park and monument at Mamaroneck High School, above. A photo of Lieutenant Kemper and his father, Adolph, circa 1943. A rendering of how the monument might look if it were moved to another site at the school. (George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); WORLD WAR II (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); SOCCER (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); RELOCATIONS (89%); SCHOOL SPORTS FACILITIES (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); SCHOOL BOARDS (75%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (73%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (70%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; MONUMENTS AND MEMORIALS; WORLD WAR II (1939-45) 

PERSON: KEMPER, RICHARD M; SWANSBURG, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%) MAMARONECK (NY)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2001 



7 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1263 words

HEADLINE: Streetscapes/44th Street Between Fifth and Sixth Avenues; 
In Center for Clubhouses, Remnants of Small Stables

BYLINE:  By CHRISTOPHER GRAY 

 BODY:
THE Harvard Club's plan for an eight-story addition to replace its little buildings at 33 and 35 West 44th west of the main clubhouse is just one part of the general revival of what was established at the turn of the century as the club center of New York. The clubs themselves settled here in the 1890's because others disdained the noises and smells of the Civil War-era stables that then dominated the street. Now it appears that the last of the stables are disappearing.
 In the 1850's and 1860's, row house construction flourished west of Fifth on 42nd and 45th Streets, but for some reason 43rd and 44th were dominated by small stables. Perhaps the block-long stable for horse-drawn trolley cars at the Sixth Avenue end, built in the early 1850's, spoiled the flanking blocks for higher uses. 
 In 1865 Benjamin Jones and Andrew Luke, grain dealers, built four two-story stables at 43-49 West 44th; only 47 survives, as an annex to the Hotel Iroquois. They sold 47 to 1865 to Wedworth Clarke, an oil dealer who lived in a brownstone at 55 West 45th. It must have been Clarke's coachman, William Dunn, who shows up at the stable address in the 1869 city directory online at the Web site Ancestry.com. 
The same directory shows the block as one of working class occupations: at 35 West 44th Street, a stable built in 1859, lived a coachman, a watchman, a trunk maker, a carpenter and an oysterman, William Reckhow.
In 1871, Elisha Brooks built a new stable on the site. Brooks, who moved up from Union Square to Fifth Avenue near 46th Street, was a member of the firm of Brooks Brothers.
His new stable was designed by the architect William Laimbeer and is the most intact of the stables remaining on the block, with its cornice and upper floors remaining from its stable days. 
Brooks died in 1878 and his family sold 35 West 44th Street to George D. Phelps, who had graduated from Yale, was a member of the Union League Club and was independently wealthy; in 1881 The New York Times reported that he had been charged with insulting two women on a Broadway stage with "vile and indecent language" while drunk; he paid a $10 fine. When he died two years later from a fall while intoxicated, The Times reported that he had recently been swindled in a purchase of some Kentucky horses, "which were not what they were represented to be."
Around the same time, the Clarke family sold 47 West 44th Street to Edward Brandon, a prominent Wall Street stockbroker who often traded for the financier Jay Gould. Brandon went bankrupt in 1890 and the next year had to sell 47 West 44th to Henry G. Trevor, a sportsman who founded the Shinnecock Golf Club on the East End of Long Island and lived at 6 East 45th Street.
BY this time many of the original stable owners had moved farther north, and changes were occurring that would significantly alter West 43rd and 44th Streets. Because the stables depressed land values, these blocks attracted users looking for economical sites.
In 1887 John S. White, the Harvard-educated headmaster of the private Berkeley School, built a gym for the school at 19-21 West 44th Street (it has since been demolished) and established a men's athletic club there to defray expenses. This was the first club on the block. 
Two years later the New York Academy of Medicine (also demolished) and the Century Association built on West 43rd Street, attracted by the modest land costs and proximity to Grand Central Terminal. In 1890 the Brearley School, a private girls' school, built a building at 15 West 44th Street (which no longer exists). 
Most private clubs were still in second-hand buildings, and in 1891 the Real Estate Record and Guide said that clubhouse architecture was "utterly unknown in New York until recently" and also made a prediction that perhaps seemed reasonable: "there is no club centre in New York, nor is there likely to be." In 1893 the Harvard Club started its Georgian-style clubhouse at 27 West 44th, and the St. Nicholas Club began a Dutch-style building at 7 West 44th (later demolished). In 1894 the Bar Association built its own clublike headquarters at 42 West 44th, and in 1899 the Yale and New York Yacht Clubs started clubhouses at 30 and 37 West 44th Street.
In the same year the multimillionaire James Ben Ali Haggin bought the old Brooks-Phelps stable at 35 West 44th Street and raised it one story, apparently reusing the original cornice, and replicating the brickwork of the lower floors. Haggin, who was not a member of any of the clubs on the block, lived at on Fifth Avenue near 47th Street. 
He had made his fortune in the California gold rush and owned several thousand horses; his father was born in Kentucky, but his mother was Turkish. 
In 1900 Henry G. Trevor moved from 45th Street and sold the 47 West 44th Street stable to the new Hotel Iroquois at 49 West 44th, one of several hotels that developers built as the fortunes of 44th Street rose markedly. 
Such changes were also reflected in the census returns; the 1900 census shows an influx of occupations like bellman and waiter into the old stable structures. That year The New York Tribune noted the sudden transformation of the block, calling it "Bachelors' Alley" because of all the rooms for single men; some of the clubs had also taken blocks of rooms in the 1897 Hotel Royalton, at 44 West 44th Street. 
The City Club, a civic organization, was the last club to build on the block, putting up its eight-story house at 55 West 44th Street in 1904.
The next year The New York Times said that sightseeing buses routinely went down 44th Street, where "you could not throw a stick very far without hitting either a magnificent clubhouse or a dingy stable." 
The 1920 census records a completely changed tenancy in the old stables; 33 West 44th Street, built in 1860, was the home of two ""motion picture" actors and a lawyer, and 35 West 44th, the Brooks-Phelps-Haggin stable, was the home of Julia Azez, 65, who was born in Syria but arrived in the United States in 1888, along with her Arabic-speaking daughter Alice Azez, a landscape artist.
The club buildings of 44th Street have generally survived and even prospered. The Harvard Club now has 10,000 members. Several years ago, the Penn Club reclaimed the old Yale Club, which had built its present clubhouse on Vanderbilt Avenue in 1915. The Penn Club acquired the building from Touro College, which had been located there since the early 1970's.
Within the last month 44th Street was blocked off as new steel was lifted to the roof of the old City Club, which is becoming a hotel; Philip Murray, whose firm Gilsanz Murray & Steficek is the structural engineer for the project, says the steel is for 10 additional stories to be added at some future date.
Stephen Brighenti is the head of Metropolitan Hotels, a partner in the development of what is being called the City Club Hotel, which he expects to open in June. Mr. Brighenti calls 44th "the most accommodating block in New York," including all the clubs that offer rooms for members.
The City Club project involves the restoration of its exterior, but the Harvard Club's plan, designed by Davis Brody Bond, calls for the demolition of 33 and 35 West 44th. That would leave 47 West 44th as the last recognizable stable structure on the block; it now appears empty and abandoned. But Paul Celnick, general manager of the Iroquois, says that by the end of the year the hotel is going to make it into a banquet and convention space for the Iroquois. The funny little arches and keystones will disappear too; the facade will be rebuilt to match that of the hotel.

GRAPHIC: Photos: From left, 47, 35 and 33 West 44th, once stables. Harvard Club plans to demolish 33 and 35. Block in 1892, with Brearley School fourth from right. (Office for Metropolitan History); (Photographs by Dith Pran/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HORSES (76%) GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; ORGANIZATIONS, SOCIETIES AND CLUBS 

COMPANY: ANCESTRY.COM INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%)

PERSON: GRAY, CHRISTOPHER 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%) NEW YORK CITY; MANHATTAN (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2001 



8 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1591 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Connecticut; 
Eminent Domain Challenged in New London Project

BYLINE:  By ELEANOR CHARLES 

DATELINE: NEW LONDON 

 BODY:
ON occasional Sundays Vic Frausini, a 71-year-old mason from Waterford, comes back to the old Italian neighborhood of New London where he was born and raised to salvage usable bricks out of the rubble left behind by the demolition of homes near Fort Trumbull State Park.
 Once a stable enclave overlooking the Thames River, bounded by East Street, Trumbull, Nameaug and Walbach Streets, the area fell into deep decline along with rest of the city. Now it is being leveled to make way for a $200 million complex of offices, upscale housing and a hotel on a total of 90 acres. And it is the subject of a legal battle over the use of eminent domain to acquire property for a project in which private companies stand to gain, a technique that is in dispute in a number of places in Connecticut. 
 Mr. Frausini said he feels bad that so many homes and businesses of his former neighbors have been torn down. "For some people it's very painful," he said. "They've lived here for generations. But everything is deteriorated -- dilapidated. What the city is planning will be good for New London." 
With 60 percent of its real estate tax-exempt, the 11th highest tax rate and fourth weakest economy among Connecticut's 169 municipalities and with no land left for development, this city of six square miles is struggling. Local government welcomed the Fort Trumbull project with unequivocal approval from the City Council, the Planning and Zoning Commission and the Southeastern Connecticut Council of Governments. And the project got $73 million from the State Department of Economic and Community Development for planning, site preparation, soil remediation, infrastructure improvement and roads. 
The balance is to be raised by Corcoran-Jennison of Boston, the city's designated developer and owner of the project.
Over the next five years it will build a 110- to 250-room hotel with an indoor pool and health club, a 200,000-square-foot office building and 80 units of high-end town houses and apartments. An existing 9,000-square-foot building is to be converted to offices from a former naval underwater warfare center. Plans for the first phase will be submitted to New London's Planning and Zoning Commission in May.
The city delegated its power of eminent domain and all oversight to the private New London Development Authority, headed by Claire Gaudiani, president of Connecticut College. She is currently on sabbatical until her resignation from the college becomes effective in June.
Her husband, David G. Burnett, is an executive at the Pfizer Corporation, whose new $270 million three-building global research and development headquarters opens in June about three blocks from Fort Trumbull Park. Through its acquisition of Warner-Lambert last year, Pfizer has the largest biomedical research and development operation in the world, and it has backed a $2 million loan to the Fort Trumbull project for working capital and improvements to Howard Street, a road leading into its headquarters.
"We are committed to about 30 percent of the new hotel rooms," said Kate Robins, a spokeswoman for Pfizer, "and we will have preferred access to its conference space for 15 years." Marty Jones, president of Corcoran-Jennison, said, "We are pleased to have Pfizer as a financial partner."
Everyone is pleased -- the city, the state and the general citizenry of New London -- except for the enraged Fort Trumbull homeowners and business owners who are being evicted for what they believe is the benefit of Pfizer, not New London.
"The eminent domain issue is hard for people to understand," Ms. Gaudiani said, "how it will lower taxes, improve schools, create jobs and bring people back to the city. Most of the press has taken the part of the people who are displaced, ignoring the big picture of how a city picks itself up."
Fort Trumbull Park is one of many examples across the country where eminent domain is being re-examined. In Connecticut, eminent domain for private gain has been used in projects in Ridgefield, Bridgeport, Torrington and Bristol.
To date the New London Development Corporation has used its power of eminent domain to condemn, acquire and dispose of 80 homes and small businesses at Fort Trumbull Park, according to Christopher Riley, a spokesman for the corporation. Some are now boarded up before demolition; others have already been bulldozed and their owners relocated. 
OF the 10 remaining properties, seven owners refuse to budge. Standing in the living room of her salmon pink 1895 house, Suzette Kelo, one of the most vocal holdouts, snapped, "They own the house!" referring to the development corporation. "The money is in City Hall. They tell me I can have it anytime I want it, but I don't want it. I'm staying." From her windows she has a 180-degree view of the Thames River and Pfizer, the city's largest taxpayer. "I was told that my property would be marketed, but not for what," she said. "It's for Pfizer." 
Working through the Institute for Justice in Washington, a nonprofit organization that specializes in fighting what it believes is the abuse of eminent domain, Ms. Kelo and her six neighbors obtained a restraining order in February preventing further demolitions and evictions until a lawsuit filed on their behalf in December by the institute is concluded. A trial, scheduled on May 21 in State Superior Court in New London, will focus on whether taking property by eminent domain for private profit is constitutional.
Scott G. Bullock, an institute lawyer who is representing the group, has accused the city and the development corporation of violating the federal and state Constitutions and the City Charter by subverting the process of eminent domain from its purpose of providing for the public good with roads, bridges, schools and so forth, to creating windfalls for private developers engaged in profit-making enterprises.
New London's mayor, Ernest Hewitt, sees it differently. "I think we've done everything within the parameters of the law," he said. "People left this city out of frustration that nothing has happened here for the past 50 years. They wanted something to happen, and by God we're doing it!"
But Terry Tondro, a professor of law at the University of Connecticut, thinks the homeowners have a reasonable case. "I greatly sympathize with these people," he said. "We should find a way to pay attention to the communities and the needs of people. It doesn't help to have a big tax-producing entity in town" with disproportionate influence over how a project is developed for its own benefit. "But," he added, "redevelopment has never been noted for sensitivity."
The circumstances vary in the cases in which eminent domain is under dispute in other places around Connecticut. Open space preservation is the context in which the town of Ridgefield wants to buy Bennett's Pond, a 680-acre tract of undeveloped land, the largest in Fairfield County, from Roseland Properties of Short Hills, N.J. The developer bought it from I.B.M. in 1998 for $8.5 million, planning to build 284 homes, 350,000 square feet of offices, a 200-room hotel and conference center and an 18-hole golf course.
The original plan was rejected by the Planning and Zoning Commission, and an offer of $12 million by the town was refused. But the developer is willing to limit a reduced proposal to 20 percent of the land, assigning the rest to open space in perpetuity. The Ridgefield Open Space Association wants nothing built and the property taken in eminent domain. "Taking land must be well defined as a public purpose," said Carl Goldberg, head of Roseland Properties. "I don't think that's the case, and even if they win, the amount of the award could be catastrophic for the town."
Last December the Superior Court of Connecticut ruled that the use of eminent domain by the city of Bridgeport to take the Pequonnock Yacht Club was illegal. The court said the city's action was not necessary to attain its goal of developing a $731 million plan for a hotel, conference center, retail operations and water-related recreational uses on a blighted 50-acre area called Steel Point. The city was ordered to return the club to its owner. Now the developer's contract has been terminated because it lacked financing, and the city has five new proposals to consider. To keep the site intact by regaining the Yacht Club property, the city is appealing the ruling.
In downtown Torrington, where a number of stores are vacant, Water Street along the Naugatuck River, Main Street and East Main Street are the targets of a plan to variously renovate, demolish and build new stores "to help solidify the town's hub," said Jed Hayes, head of Sullivan-Hayes, developers based in Farmington. Some 400,000 square feet of space would be affected by the introduction of two new department stores and a number of additional stores. But the relocation or demise of local merchants and the city's willingness to seize property by eminent domain from unwilling owners is worrisome to townspeople and prompted a cautionary editorial in The Litchfield County Times, a weekly newspaper based in New Milford.
The Bristol case involves a 30-acre homestead owned by the Bugryn brothers, John and Frank. The city took the property by eminent domain after negotiations to acquire it failed and Yarde Metals, which wanted it for expansion purposes, threatened to leave town unless it got its way.
Yarde Metals left town anyway, the Bugryns still live on the property, the city still owns it and the case is still winding through the courts after five years.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Suzette Kelo is fighting in court to stop the demolition of her property. (C. M. Glover for The New York Times) Map of Connecticut highlighting New London.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROPERTY LAW (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); EMINENT DOMAIN (90%); ZONING (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (88%); STATE PARKS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PROPERTY TAX (77%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); HOTEL AMENITIES (75%); OFFICE PROPERTY (75%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); CITIES (71%); HOTELS & MOTELS (70%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (69%); INFRASTRUCTURE (66%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (65%); TAX LAW (65%); LAND RECLAMATION (65%); BIOMEDICINE (61%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (60%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (60%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (50%) EMINENT DOMAIN; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL 

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (52%)

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (52%); PFEB (BRU) (52%); PFE (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (52%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (52%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (52%)

PERSON: CHARLES, ELEANOR 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW LONDON, CT, USA (96%) CONNECTICUT, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW LONDON (CONN); CONNECTICUT

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2001 



9 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2113 words

HEADLINE: Latest Census Reveals an Old-Fashioned Trend 

BYLINE:  By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN 

 BODY:
IN the four years since Joe Grate moved his barbecue restaurant from downtown New Haven to the neighboring town of Hamden, a funny pattern has developed. Every so often, Mr. Grate sees a customer that he first met during his 20 years in the bigger city.
 "A lot of people that I have known in New Haven have come in," he said. "And I'll say, 'How are things going in New Haven?' And they say, 'Well, we live in Hamden now.' That's happened with hundreds of people." 
 Mr. Grate knows dozens of black families who have moved to Hamden in recent years. And he knows why, because he made the same move in 1968 for the same reason. "They want something a little better for their children, better schools," he said. "And a little more peace of mind. This is the same just like everybody else, lower-class and lower-middle-class people, they work, they have jobs and they want a better life." 
Early results of the 2000 census show declining populations in all of Connecticut's bigger cities except Stamford. Predictably, a large portion of the declines can be attributed to white residents leaving cities that are becoming increasingly black and Hispanic. But in New Haven and in Hartford, the large cities with the steepest population drops, there has also been a significant departure of black people and corresponding growth in the size and diversity of rim suburbs like Hamden or West Hartford.
Between 1990 and 2000, the number of Hamden residents identifying themselves as black increased to 8,632, more than 15 percent of the town population, from 4,666, which was less than 9 percent. During the same time, the number of New Haven residents identifying themselves as black decreased to 44,598 from 47,526, a decline of more than 6 percent. Hartford had an even steeper decline in its black population, to 43,775 from 52,357, a drop of more than 16 percent.
And while the number of Hispanics, Asians and other minorities in Connecticut's cities continues to grow, the number of minority residents in the suburbs is also increasing. In Hamden, the number of residents identifying themselves as Hispanic increased to 2,425 from 1,101, a jump of more than 120 percent. The number of Hamden residents identifying themselves as Asian increased to 2,000 from 915, a similar jump of nearly 120 percent. 
The population numbers are based on figures for 2000 and on 1990 data that were adjusted to make up for undercounting and overcounting in the 1990 census.
The shifts in Connecticut, which remains an overwhelmingly white state, suggest that the move from cities to suburbs that began in the late 19th century and continued through the 20th century among middle- and upper-class whites is being repeated going into the 21st century by upwardly mobile African-Americans and Hispanic, Caribbean and Asian immigrants.
City neighborhoods that were once occupied entirely by European immigrants are now filled with Latin Americans. Although Connecticut's cities remain centers of employment, they seem to have less and less to offer middle-class families with children.
"There certainly are some job magnets there," said David Rusk, a former mayor of Albuquerque and urban policy consultant who has studied Hartford. "State agencies, Aetna headquarters, major hospitals, Trinity College; all of these employ people of professional standing, many of whom may want to live closer to where they work but they are not going to do so surrounded by a sea of poverty. That just doesn't make sense, especially if they have children to raise." 
For Mayor Carl J. Amento of Hamden, the movement to suburbs like his is encouraging. "What you want to look for to make a town grow is an influx of new immigrants, even if they are native born immigrants," he said, adding that a move just across the border could mean a big change in people's lives. "People may be making a move that is a small move geographically, but a large move in terms of upward mobility," he said. "I'm excited to see we are growing more diverse and cosmopolitan."
And while Hamden's gain would seem to be New Haven's loss, Mayor John DeStefano Jr. of New Haven does not see it that way.
"We continue to be a place where new Americans and new citizens come to," he said. "If you go back 100 years in New Haven, you would have been in an immigrant city."
He said he viewed the movement from city to suburb as historically inevitable, a healthy cycle that makes room for each new wave of immigrants and does not reflect any weakening of the city center. 
"In our case, two-thirds of the housing stock is rental and 50 years ago, two-thirds of the housing stock was rental," Mr. DeStefano said. He said the new Hispanic immigrants were living in neighborhoods occupied a century ago by Irish and Italian immigrants. "You literally had these neighborhoods that were overly foreign neighborhoods," he said. "I am sure there were people that were horrified 100 years ago. But I think America did pretty well over the last century." 
In the movement of blacks from New Haven to Hamden, Mr. Grate, the restaurant owner, was a pioneer. Until the late 1960's he lived in New Haven, but then moved so that his four children could attend Hamden schools.
"I bought a house in 1968 in Hamden and that was to give my kids better schooling," he said. "That was the key to the whole thing." At the time Mr. Grate and his family moved to Mueller Drive in South Hamden, he said, "There was one black family besides us." 
Today, the neighborhood is thoroughly mixed. According to the new census data, of 4,511 people in the neighborhood's census tract, 2,678 identified themselves as white; 1,439 as black; 216 as Hispanic, and 103 as Asian. Both the Hispanic and Asian populations had doubled since 1990 while the black population grew by 150 percent. Neighboring census tracts show similar growth. 
A walk through South Hamden on a Saturday morning explains the town's desirability. Tidy houses, old Capes and Victorians, line quiet streets dotted with trees. There are children riding bicycles, joggers, a few people tending their lawns, washing their cars or walking their dogs. A postman makes his rounds. On Dixwell Avenue, which is the main throughway leading from the New Haven line to Hamden's town center, the parking lots of local shopping centers are filled. 
On Collins Street in the Hamden Plains neighborhood, Teyaka Sherman, 13, and her brother, Michael, 10, were playing with friends on the porch of the house where their mother, Diane, rents a duplex apartment. Ms. Sherman, a nurse, moved to Hamden with her children four years ago from Spring Street in New Haven.
"I wanted to move out of New Haven," she said. "It was getting bad. My daughter fought in the neighborhood every day. He was doing terrible in school."
Things could not be different in Hamden, she said. "It's a great neighborhood," she said, laughing about how her children had left the door to the house unlocked one night. "This is the only place I know where you can sleep with your door open," she said.
Ms. Sherman said her children were getting more attention in school. "They are more concerned than in the New Haven schools," she said. "They'll call you up and set up meetings. They'll stay after school with the kids."
Although the predominantly white Hamden police force has had some friction with the mostly black neighborhoods just across the New Haven border, Ms. Sherman said she believed the Hamden police were strict with everyone and were not unfairly targeting minorities.
Around the corner, on Lexington Street, Kim Dickey, 24, was cleaning out her car, outside the house that her mother and stepfather, a mechanical engineer, bought last year. "Decent black people, a good bit of them are doing better for themselves," she said. "They want to do better for their children, they want to do better for their families." 
And down the street, Ernesto Reyes, 27, said he preferred Hamden, where he has lived for three years, to his old apartment in New Haven. "It's quiet," he said. "It's nice. It's clean. You can sleep at night. You don't have to worry about shootings. The cops are strict out here. They don't play around."
Bob Vitale, 38, was delivering mail on Lexington Avenue. Mr. Vitale, who is white, has worked the same postal route in Hamden for 14 years, and said he has watched first-hand as the faces in the neighborhood changed. "On Wilbert Street," he said. "the first four houses were all bought by black families." He added, "They are moving out here where it's safer for their families, which is what we all want for our families." 
But while Mr. Vitale seemed to genuinely appreciate the growing diversity of Hamden, he himself is an example of another trend: the declining number of white residents. After living nearly his entire life in Hamden, Mr. Vitale and his family moved two years ago to North Branford.
In place of some of the white families that have moved out is a growing community of Caribbean immigrants. Among them is Lyndon Pitter, a native of Jamaica, who is the executive director of the Highville Mustard Seed Charter School.
"I know for Caribbean people, the way for them to measure their success is you begin to look at where you live and so people choose to move to the suburbs as their income level goes up," he said. 
After emigrating from Jamaica, Mr. Pitter, 35, lived briefly in Hartford and in New Haven before moving to Hamden. In the 10 years he has lived in the town, he said, "I have seen lots of white families move out and lots of black families move in." But he said that many of the town's new residents still rely on New Haven as a center of employment and as the base of a larger Caribbean immigrant community.
"The funniest thing is if you look at the immigrant population, many of them go to churches in New Haven, but they live in Hamden," he said.
Matthew Nemerson, a former president of the Greater New Haven Chamber of Commerce, said the best neighborhoods in New Haven, like East Rock, had experienced tremendous increases in real estate prices over the last decade, making them mostly unaffordable to newly middle-class families. Those neighborhoods also remain predominantly white and may seem unwelcoming to minorities or immigrants. 
"The newly affluent or newly middle class can't afford the very well functioning neighborhoods and may not feel that comfortable there," he said. "So you see a great outflux of middle-class minorities to the suburbs." 
But in searching for a new home outside the city, all suburbs are not equal. Many black residents of Hamden said they had chosen the town because it already had a substantial minority community that made it seem more welcoming.
Mayor Amento said that Hamden's growing diversity is reflected on many town boards and commissions and would be highlighted on a new Human Rights and Relations Commission that was recently approved by the town council and will be appointed in the coming months. "I hope we are doing everything we can to make people feel welcome and to feel that we are very inclusive in our government and social affairs in Hamden," he said. 
Mr. Grate said that shortly after he opened his barbecue restaurant, he was visited by Mayor Amento and by Dale Kroop, the town's director of community and economic development. "When we got to Hamden, right away the mayor stopped by and Dale stopped by and said there are programs that could help us," he said. Through the town's micro-loan program for small businesses, Mr. Grate was able to borrow $25,000 to buy new equipment. 
And just as Mr. Grate was a pioneer in moving to the suburbs, he may be a pioneer in a future demographic trend back to cities. Mr. Grate and his wife, Peggy, moved back to New Haven from Hamden after the youngest of their four children graduated high school. In doing so, they became exactly the type of older adults with grown children that some urban planners said they believe are key to restoring urban centers. 
In Hartford, for example, the Capital City Development Authority is coordinating $700 million in public and private investment in revitalizing the city that will include new downtown housing units and a waterfront entertainment and retail project called Adriaen's Landing. 
"Our first efforts in this respect really will target young professionals who may live downtown and not have kids and empty-nesters who may like the idea of living just a few steps away from one of the most famous art museums in New England and a few steps from a walk along the Connecticut River," said Matt Fleury, a spokesman for the authority. "There is a very good opportunity to restore a great deal of energy to downtown by attracting empty nesters and young professionals."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Teyaka Sherman, center, with her visiting cousin, Robert Crino, and Tiffany Rowe, who lives in the area. (Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)(pg. 4); Kim Dickey, 24, was outside of her house cleaning her car with her cousin, Dennis Saucier. "Decent black people, a good bit of them are doing better for themselves," she said about her move to Hamden. (Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)(pg. 1) Chart: "Keeping Track: Diversity Comes to Hamden"Racial and ethnic makeup of Hamden in the 1990 and 2000 census. 1990WHITE: 87.14%BLACK: 8.86%ASIAN: 1.74%OTHER: 0.17%HISPANIC: 2.09% 2000WHITE: 75.22%BLACK: 15.18%ASIAN: 3.54%OTHER: 1.79%HISPANIC: 4.26% *Hispanics have been separated from other catergories and may be of any race. (Source: Census Bureaus)(pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (90%); SUBURBS (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (87%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); POPULATION DECLINE (77%); FAMILY (75%); CHILDREN (75%); CITY LIFE (73%); CITIES (73%) POPULATION; CENSUS; BLACKS; SUBURBS 

PERSON: HERZENHORN, DAVID M 

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (93%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (91%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW HAVEN (CONN); HARTFORD (CONN); HAMDEN (CONN); WEST HARTFORD (CONN); CONNECTICUT

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2001 



10 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1389 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property/New Jersey; 
As Tenants Trim Space, Sublease Offers Grow

BYLINE:  By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

 BODY:
A GROWING amount of the available office space in the state is not in the hands of landlords. It is on the sublease market, offering an exit for companies restructuring their space needs, good deals for tenants and a mixed blessing for the 11-county northern and central New Jersey office marketplace, national real estate services companies say. 
 There are 4.1 million square feet of space being offered for sublease, or 26 percent of the overall available space, according to Cushman & Wakefield. Figures from GVA Williams show there are 3.3 million feet of such space, or 20.7 percent of all available space. And Insignia/ESG says there are 2.31 million feet of sublease space, or 13 percent of all available space. 
 Because of the different ways brokerages calculate space availability, their statistics often seem to be at odds. In the case of subleasing, Cushman & Wakefield shows a doubling of such space from nine months ago and GVA Williams registers a similar increase but from last year. But ESG, which unlike the other two limits its surveys to buildings of 75,000 square feet or larger, shows an increase of 10,000 square feet from the end of 1999 to the end of 2000. 
Despite the differences, there is an unaccustomed amount of sublease space available these days for the first time in recent years as the uncertain national economy affects the office market. Rental rate increases have started to diminish, cautious tenants have trimmed their space needs and the pace of leasing has slowed in some submarkets. 
Most industry professionals agree there is a pause in the market. But with the overall office vacancy rate around 10 percent, no one is predicting it will collapse. 
"There will be more turbulence in the next four to six months before the market rebounds," said Mark Yeager, president of Gale & Wentworth, a real estate company with headquarters in Florham Park.
Eric Witmondt, chief executive of the New Jersey office of GVA Williams, based in Parsippany, has a more tempered outlook. "It will be status quo at least through the summer," he said, "as everyone takes a wait-and-see approach to what happens to the New Jersey and national economies." 
The crop of subleases is the result of corporate mergers, acquisitions and even expansions. Rearrangements to the corporate house, including those of Lucent Technologies, Prudential, Merrill Lynch and AT&T, are expected to continue, at least for the near term, industry professionals said. 
Lucent has 155,000 square feet on the sublease market in a 310,000-square-foot building on Woodhollow Road in Parsippany. The sublease is part of the company's restructuring, which will result in 10,000 people being laid off, 1,500 of them in New Jersey.
THAT "will create vacant space," said John J. Skalko, a Lucent spokesman. He declined to speculate on future sublease plans but said the company had 8.5 million square feet of space in 36 buildings in the state.
As part of AT&T's efforts to reshuffle its space needs to cut costs, the company has put some 1.8 million square feet of space on the market, said Gary Morgenstern, a spokesman. As those efforts continue, the company's 12 million square feet in 35 buildings "could further tighten," by 2 million feet in the next year, he said.
The sublet space is filtering onto a market where rents have stabilized after rising an average of 35 percent in the last two years. Subleases generally are priced at 25 to 50 percent below market.
Subleases are a concern because they bring "another pricing dynamic" to the market, said Daniel J. Loughlin, a managing principal at the Staubach Company, a commercial real estate service firm with offices in Murray Hill. But he said, and most other commercial brokers agreed, that barring a full-blown recession the market should be able to absorb the sublease space.
Among the reasons are that such space represents just 2 percent of New Jersey's 152-million-square-foot market, said Patrick Murphy, executive director of Insignia/ ESG of New Jersey, which is based in Saddle Brook. In addition, he said there has been limited new construction, keeping demand ahead of supply. That is expected to continue because financing from lenders to construct buildings on speculation remains tight, he added.
Mr. Witmondt added that the state had also not been as negatively affected as other regions by sharp cutbacks at dot-com companies, which could have meant more sublease space. Additionally, the state has a diverse tenant base, he said, adding that while some industries like telecommunications are shedding space, others, including pharmaceuticals, are expanding.
Mr. Murphy added that his firm knew of at least seven companies looking in the state for large blocks of office space, ranging from 150,000 to 600,000 square feet.
In today's market, brokers said the conventional thinking about sublets as small unmarketable space with short leases and bargain rents did not always hold true. Indeed, a sizable amount of the available sublet space is in blocks of 50,000 square feet or more, reports Cushman & Wakefield, which lists 13 such blocks totaling 2.5 million square feet. Mr. Witmondt said that with large blocks of quality space still in demand, such subleases actually "could help loosen up submarkets where there has been no new construction."
An example is the 150,000 square feet of space that Prudential, the insurer, has made available as a sublease at a 325,000-square-foot building it leases on Wood Avenue in Metro Park. That space, resulting from the insurer's consolidation of its operations, has 10 years left on its lease and is an option for tenants, "because there is nothing else available in that submarket," said Michael A. Cohen, managing director at GVA Williams, which is marketing the space for Prudential. Asking rents of $33 a square foot a year are competitive, he said.
The same is true for sublet space that has become or will become available on the Hudson River waterfront, where the vacancy rate is low. There, EDS, a computer services concern, recently shed 45,000 square feet in a building in Weehawken. 
In submarkets where new construction is brisk and sublease space is abundant, it could drag down the market. In Morris and Somerset Counties, which have the largest amounts of subleases, such space accounted for 44 percent and 47 percent respectively of the overall available space in those markets, Cushman & Wakefield said. 
IN Somerset County the biggest block of space is the 400,000-square-foot building on Davidson Road in Franklin Township that Merrill Lynch will be making available for lease or sale. The building is part of the company's consolidation to its new 1.25-million-square-foot campus on 450 acres off Interstate 95 in Hopewell, Selena Morris, a spokesperson, said. That is slightly more than the 1.1 million square feet the company will ultimately be leaving, she said, noting that it will have 3 million square feet of space in the state. 
Mr. Murphy of Insignia ESG, which is marketing the building, said, "It will draw tenants in this kind of market because there is a flight to quality." 
That is also what Mr. Loughlin of Staubach is hoping for in marketing the largest sublease in Morris County -- the 340,000-square-foot building in Parsippany that Aventis Pharmaceuticals is vacating. The company no longer needs the building, which was a temporary location, because it is moving to its larger permanent headquarters in Bridgewater. "The lease has eight and half years to go, making it more marketable" than short-term subleases and "competitive with new construction," Mr. Loughlin said. "We will be aggressive, but rents will not be below market."
Meanwhile, developers continue to build in the county. Gale & Wentworth is building a 175,000-square-foot speculative building as part of the Center of Morris County in Parsippany, which ultimately will have 850,000 square feet in four buildings.
"The market still has enough depth," Mr. Yeagar, the company's president, said, noting that in Morris County as elsewhere his company "plans to continue to develop because the basics are solid." But reflecting a more cautious market, it is adjusting its strategy on speculative building. Mr. Yeager said his company would now want to have an existing speculative building at least half leased before starting another one.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Prudential has made 150,000 square feet of office space available for sublease at a building in Metro Park. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (91%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); PROPERTY LEASES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (77%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (72%); EXECUTIVES (67%); MERGERS (60%) OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES; RENTING AND LEASING 

COMPANY: ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (82%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (58%)

TICKER: ALU (PAR) (82%); ALU (NYSE) (82%); ALU (BIT) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (82%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (82%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (58%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (58%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (58%)

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2001 



11 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 2; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3175 words

HEADLINE: Measuring Suburban Markets' Strength 

BYLINE:  By DENNIS HEVESI 

 BODY:
THE real estate market in the New York metropolitan region has stepped down from its relentless quest for historic peaks to a sort of high-altitude base camp, several observers of housing trends say, with price increases leveling off -- somewhat -- and demand moderating.
 In an economy buffeted by stock-market plunges, confidence-eroding earnings reports and scattered layoff announcements, the data that the housing watchers cite and the mix of their contentions offer insights into national and regional housing markets that are coming off four straight years of record-setting price increases and home-ownership rates. "The froth is off the top, but the market is still strong," said Rae Rosen, senior regional economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. 
 "We've seen a mood shift from irrational exuberance to contagious pessimism," said James W. Hughes, dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University. "In reality, the pessimism has gone beyond the underlying economic fundamentals." 
Steve Berman, a survey statistician at the Census Bureau -- pointing out particularly that sales of new homes in the nation slipped slightly to 903,000 last year from the all-time record of 907,000 set in 1999 -- said, "People are concentrating on the drop, and forgetting about the level."
But George W. McCarthy, a housing economist at the Ford Foundation, is less sanguine. Low mortgage interest rates "are the only thing that's contained the fall in demand in the last few months," Dr. McCarthy said. "And anyone who thought you could maintain double-digit price increases annually over a long period doesn't know history. That defines a bubble."
If it's a bubble, it hasn't burst.
According to the National Association of Realtors, the median price for a single-family home in the suburban arc around New York City rose from $203,200 in 1999 to $230,900 in 2000, a 13.6 percent increase.
More locally, the median price in Nassau and Suffolk Counties rose 12.4 percent last year, to $214,000 from $190,400 in 1999. In Essex County, N.J., the median climbed to $236,500, a 19.7 percent jump from $197,500 the year before. And in the New Haven-Meriden area of Connecticut, there was a 4.5 percent gain, from $145,700 to $151,600.
There was, however, slippage in the number of sales recorded in 2000. While New York state held virtually steady at 179,300 transactions -- 200 less than in 1999, the association's figures show -- New Jersey's sales dropped 2 percent, from 141,900 to 139,000. And Connecticut sales were down 3.9 percent, to 49,000 from 51,000.
"We've had a decline in consumer confidence in recent months," Dr. Hughes at Rutgers said, although a rebound was reported this week. "Yet, we haven't really seen a major market softening."
"The price frenzy prevalent through the first half of 2000, and over the last five years, has dampened," Dr. Hughes continued. "But have prices still held firm? What's no longer happening is people bidding up prices."
Ever-upward profits seemed the market mood only a year ago: 1999 had been the fourth straight year during which the median price in the region broke the previous record, and the $208,000 median that year represented an 11 percent rise over the 1998 median of $187,400 -- nearly triple the 3.9 percent national rate of increase.
By another measure of the market, the ZIP-code-by-ZIP-code repeat-sale survey conducted by the Case Shiller Weiss home-price research company, 1999 was the second straight year during which all of the 576 ZIP code areas (those for which there was sufficient data) in the 14-county ring around New York City had prices appreciate -- 396 of them by 8 percent or more.
In 2000, according to the new Case Shiller Weiss report, while once again every one of the 574 ZIP code areas with adequate data had price rises, the number that appreciated 8 percent or more actually jumped, to 453 -- and this despite slippage during the fourth quarter. (No Case Shiller data is yet available for the first quarter of this year.)
Some industry officials see value in a softening. "If prices moderate, more people can afford to buy," said Joseph Mottola, chief executive of the Long Island Board of Realtors. "And maybe the seller finally believes the market's topped out -- you know, how high is high? -- and is more willing to negotiate, to sell."
"There is a calming effect," Mr. Mottola said. "What realtors essentially want, what's best for the industry and the consumer, is a balanced market."
Dr. Hughes sees firm footing in the regional market, at least for now. "To this point, the metropolitan economy has not slowed as much as the nation's," he said, largely because it is less dependent on manufacturing than the rest of the country.
"Therefore, we have significantly less exposure," Dr. Hughes said. "Except for the shakeout in the dot-com and financial sectors, the region is well positioned to weather the national slowdown. We have continued income growth, job growth."
John L. Weiting, regional commissioner of the United States Bureau of Labor Statistics, said job growth in the tristate region slowed somewhat last year "from the robust expansion of 1999."
Approximately 232,000 private-sector jobs were added in the region last year, raising the total from 11.9 million in December of 1999 to 12.1 million at the end of 2000 -- a 1.6 percent increase. The 232,000 new jobs were 90,000 less than the 322,000 created in 1999. 
"Now I'm going to shift gears, give it to you a bit more positively," Mr. Weiting said, "because the job figures are still on the plus side and, so far this year, we haven't seen any downturn. This is not a bad story."
For Dr. Hughes, beyond new jobs, the primary load-bearing pillar of the housing economy is the baby boom generation. "We have more people today 44 years of age than any other age group," he said. "And that is a period of peak income and peak housing consumption, because they want to settle in to finish rearing their children. That is a force that will only be postponed under the most dire economic circumstances."
At the same time, "the oldest boomer hit the double nickel, 55 years of age," Dr. Hughes said, "and that double-nickel brigade is becoming empty nesters."
"They're rattling around their McMansions; they've spent a lifetime cutting lawns," he said. "Now they're looking for housing that's accessible to entertainment, culture, dining. Clearly, the empty nesters, as we move through the decade, will become a more powerful force."
Ms. Rosen at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York said she had "one quibble" with Dr. Hughes's assessment: while the baby-boom trends provide "long-term underlying support for the housing market," in the short run sales are more sensitive to pricing, consumer confidence and interest rates.
"Pricing has held up well," Ms. Rosen said. "Confidence surveys suggest that consumers feel comfortable now, but are worried about the future. And affordability has improved with the decline in interest rates."
KEITH GUMBINGER, vice president of HSH Associates, a mortgage statistics company in Butler, N.J., said the current average of 7.17 percent interest on a 30-year, fixed-rate mortgage is "within shouting distance of long-time lows."
"The low in the last 10 years -- in fact, the last 33 years -- was 6.68 percent in October 1998," Mr. Gumbinger said. The rate's recent "high-water mark" was 8.82 percent last May.
"But in early January and again late in January," he said, "the Federal Reserve slashed short-term rates twice -- a total cut of one full percentage point -- to get the economy back on its feet." And 12 days ago, it cut the rate by another half percent.
Mr. Berman at the Census Bureau pointed out that the nation reached a record home-ownership rate of 67 percent in 1999, and broke that record last year with a 67.7 percent rate.
But Dr. McCarthy at the Ford Foundation -- who casts a particular eye at how the market affects those who can least afford to buy or keep a house -- is worried.
"There's a different dynamic for people at the lower end of the market, where there's an absolute shortage of affordable housing," Dr. McCarthy said. "And those are the people who are most vulnerable to recession in terms of losing their jobs, losing their homes."
The problem, Dr. McCarthy said, is that house prices are a trailing indicator, not a leading indicator. "Therefore, when they fall, it means that labor markets have already been hit badly," he said. "And the corollary is that houses might seem a little more affordable, but there are fewer people out there with the wherewithal to buy."
At the same time, Dr. McCarthy said, statistics provided by the Mortgage Bankers Association of America indicate that delinquencies and foreclosures rose 0.8 percent since the third quarter of last year, "the first rise in nine quarters."
Part of the underlying problem is that, increasingly over the last decade, the American mortgage market has been backed by foreign investors who purchase mortgage loans that have been bundled into securities by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the government-chartered housing lenders.
"If we see increasing default rates, the value of the mortgage-backed securities will fall, and that will curtail the flow of investment money available to finance new mortgages," including from foreign sources, Dr. McCarthy said.
At the same time, he said, "Foreign investment in mortgages could be further weakened by the Federal Reserve's inclination to reduce interest rates, thereby weakening the dollar and making the mortgage-backed securities less attractive."
Without the liquidity that the mortgage market has enjoyed because of those foreign investors, "we'll have a credit crunch," Dr. McCarthy said, "which would likely spark a significant softening of the housing market."
"I hate to be such a downer," he said. "I hope I'm wrong; it would be O.K. with me to be wrong."
Real estate brokers, with their seemingly eternal, and certainly external, optimism are willing for him to be wrong.
"No one's hurting," Mr. Mottola of the Long Island realtors' board said. "It's not as frenzied, but sales and prices remain firm."
They certainly were firm last year.
In Nassau County, the median price for a single-family house rose 9.8 percent in 2000, from $230,000 to $252,500. "Now the median for Nassau in January and February this year was $259,350," Mr. Mottola said. "Up $7,000 since December. So no slackening."
Waxing site-specific, Mr. Mottola said that in Baldwin the median jumped 24 percent last year, from $188,600 to $233,250. And in Levittown, it rose 17.8 percent, from $180,000 to $212,000. Nassau's sales volume, however, dropped 5.2 percent, from 7,389 transactions in 1999 to 7,002 last year.
Tracking real estate trends by the numbers defies absolute precision. Although single-family house sales are reported by local realty boards, not all real estate agents are members of the boards and not all sales are made through agents, so not all sales in a given area are recorded. At the same time, while one board may use a median price -- meaning half the sales are above that figure and half below -- others calculate an average. Still, the numbers serve as barometers of market patterns.
And the upward pattern in Nassau last year was confirmed by the Case Shiller Weiss ZIP-code study. The survey employs a table showing the average price for all single-family homes sold in most ZIP code areas, year by year. To determine price fluctuations in 2000, the survey took the purchase price of each home sold in each ZIP code area during the year just ended, compared it with the price the house brought the last time it sold, and then, using the annual index, adjusted the previous purchase price to what it probably would have been had it sold in 1999. The 2000 sales prices for homes within each ZIP code area were then compared with the estimated 1999 prices to compute the average change.
In Nassau, the survey showed that 25 ZIP codes appreciated by 4 to 8 percent, 34 by 8 to 12 percent and 5 by 12 percent or more.
In Suffolk County, Mr. Mottola said, the median in 2000 was $190,000, 18.8 percent higher than $160,000 in 1999. More locally, the median in Cold Spring Harbor high-jumped 33 percent, from $675,000 to $897,000. And in Brentwood, there was a 15 percent increase, from $130,000 to $149,000.
Of the 79 Suffolk ZIP code areas for which there was sufficient data, the Case Shiller survey indicated that 2 had prices appreciate by 4 to 8 percent, 13 by 8 to 12 percent and 64 by 12 percent or more. 
Suffolk's sales volume, however, dipped by 10.3 percent, from 11,265 to 10,096.
MEASURING the market in Connecticut is complicated by the fact that the state does not indicate property type on deed transfers. Yet, by far, most transfers are residential, said Vincent Valvo, publisher of The Connecticut Law Tribune, which tracks economic trends.
Citing data from Warren Information Services, a business statistics company, Mr. Valvo said the median price in Fairfield County through November 2000 (the latest data available) was $245,000, up 4.8 percent from $233,750 a year earlier.
According to the Case Shiller survey, of Fairfield's 45 ZIP codes, 22 appreciated by 4 to 8 percent and 23 by 8 to 12 percent.
"Here's the downside," Mr. Valvo said: volume in Fairfield dropped 11.2 percent, from 18,419 to 16,348. "It's not grim," he said, "I'd call it cautious."
Reviewing local records, Randi Hutton, a broker at Tilghman & Frost Coldwell Banker in Westport, said the average price in Darien rose 24 percent last year, from $718,052 to $890,504. 
In Redding, Ms. Hutton said, the average price climbed 23.4 percent, from $470,815 to $581,113. "Two years ago, you could find something under $300,000," she said. "Now, there's just a handful left."
And in Stamford last year, the $500,635 average was 11.7 percent higher than the $447,922 in 1999. In January and February 2001, the average was $506,083. However, Stamford's 972 sales in 1999 slipped to 897 last year.
The higher-price, lower-volume pattern was evident in Westchester. According to the county's multiple listing service, the 2000 median for single-family homes was $407,000, an 18 percent rise from $345,000.
Of Westchester's 65 ZIP code areas, 1 appreciated by less than 4 percent; 3 by 4 to 8 percent, 14 by 8 to 12 percent and, by far, most of the county -- 47 areas -- by 12 percent or more. But sales volume slipped 8 percent, from 10,253 to 9,433.
Robin Friedman, manager of the Houlihan/Lawrence brokerage firm in Irvington, said the average price in Mount Vernon increased 16.1 percent last year, from $249,323 to $289,563. In Hastings-on-Hudson, she said, the 1999 average of $422,324 rose 9.8 percent to $464,017 in 2000. And Bedford experienced a 28.4 percent jump, from $881,972 to $1,133,143.
There was insufficient data in Rockland County for the Case Shiller survey to make accurate calculations. But in 2000, Rockland's median price was $265,000, and in 1999 it was $238,000. "That's a substantial jump," said Ann Garti, executive officer of the Greater Hudson Valley Multiple Listing Service -- 11.3 percent. Rockland recorded 1,783 sales in 2000, down 9 percent from 1,960 the year before. 
Stony Point, "a community of smaller, older homes," Ms. Garti said, had an average price of $255,637, "a slight slippage" from $256,618 in 1999. And in Sloatsburg, which Ms. Garti described as a blue-collar community, the average was $181,715, up 4.5 percent from $173,884 in 1999.
Virtually by genetics, Peter Van Winkle takes a long view of real estate trends in northern New Jersey.
Mr. Van Winkle is president of A. W. Van Winkle Real Estate in Rutherford, a company founded by his great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-grandfather, Waling Jacob Van Winkle, in 1692. 
He does not get the jitters.
The prolonged presidential election played a role in undermining confidence, Mr. Van Winkle believes. "Uncertainty brings a decline; people want to stay put," he said. "And if you had called me in November, December, I would have said people are running scared."
"But whatever people thought about the election, they were glad a decision was made," Mr. Van Winkle continued. "And since the first of the year, all inventory in South Bergen is gone."
According to the National Association of Realtors, the median price for a house with two or fewer bedrooms in the 10-county northeast region of New Jersey was $145,000 at the end of 2000. For a three-bedroom house, it was $213,000. For four bedrooms or more, it was $343,000. And all 10 counties experienced price increases last year. But sales volume in all but one county, Somerset, slipped.
By way of example, the median in Passaic County was $170,000 in 1999, and $198,600 in 2000, a 16.8 percent increase. But there was a 13.1 percent drop in volume.
The median in Hudson County climbed 13.7 percent, from $134,600 to $153,000, while sales slipped by 19 percent. And in Hunterdon, the $283,300 median at the end of 1999 had climbed to $304,000, or 7.3 percent, in 2000, with sales dropping 3.4 percent.
Of the 321 ZIP codes in the 10-county area of New Jersey surveyed by Case Shiller, 2 had prices increase by up to 4 percent, 66 by 4 to 8 percent, 215 by 8 to 12 percent and 38 by 12 percent or more. 
Asked to check recent records, Mr. Van Winkle said the average price in his town, Rutherford, was $241,148 in 2000. "So far this year, it's $245,670," he said. "So we're up $4,000 since the end of the year."
Then, without adjusting for inflation, he took a long look back.
"There's a three-bedroom colonial on Lincoln Avenue in Rutherford, built about 1910," he said. "Listen to this progression: In 1924, it sold for $8,500; in 1928, $9,800; 1948, $13,500. And just recently, December 18, 2000, it sold again -- for $255,000."

Chart/Diagram: "Changes in Housing Prices Around the Region"
The map shows changes in the prices of single-family houses sold in 2000 compared with the previous year, organized by ZIP code. All of Rockland County and few ZIP code areas in other counties are not included because insuffcient data was available to the company that prepared the analysis.

Change in price: More than +12
The region: 154
N.J. areas closest to N.Y.C.: 38
Nassau: 5
Suffolk: 64
Westchester: 47
Fairfield: 0

Change in price: +8 to +12
The region: 299
N.J. areas closest to N.Y.C.: 215
Nassau: 34
Suffolk: 13
Westchester: 14
Fairfield: 23

Change in price: +4 to +8
The region: 118
N.J. areas closest to N.Y.C.: 66
Nassau: 25
Suffolk: 2
Westchester: 3
Fairfield: 22

Change in price: 0 to + 4
The region: 3
N.J. areas closest to N.Y.C.: 2
Nassau: 0
Suffolk: 0
Westchester: 1
Fairfield: 0
(Source: Case Shiller Weiss)(pg. 1)

Chart: "How Prices of Single-Family Homes Have Changed, by ZIP Code"
Changes in prices of typical single-family houses sold in 2000 compared with the previous year, by ZIP code. A few ZIP codes are not included because of insufficient data.

Chart showing percentage of price changes for single-family houses in Connecticut, New Jersey and New York.
(Source: Case Shiller Weiss)(pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (93%); TRENDS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); HOME PRICES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (89%); SUBURBS (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); HOMEOWNERSHIP RATES (77%); SALES FIGURES (76%); INTEREST RATES (75%); CITIES (73%); CENSUS (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (71%); MORTGAGE RATES (70%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (69%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (66%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%) HOUSING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); REAL ESTATE 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (84%)

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (56%); US CENSUS BUREAU (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (84%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (84%)

PERSON: HEVESI, DENNIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (51%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; NEW YORK CITY; CONNECTICUT; NEW JERSEY; NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2001 



12 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1255 words

HEADLINE: THE CITIES; 
Another Holding Pattern For Newark Airport Plan

BYLINE:  By RONALD SMOTHERS 

DATELINE: NEWARK 

 BODY:
Like so many episodes of "The Perils of Pauline," the plan to build a hotel and conference center in an old rail yard here and has been up and down, near death one moment and miraculously rescued the next.
 From the beginning, the project -- connecting the hotel and center with a train station that would be the juncture of the new Newark Airport monorail extension, the Amtrak line and New Jersey Transit -- seemed a marvel. 
 Planners envisioned businesses within a mile of one of the nation's fastest-growing and busiest airports astride a station where air travelers could connect with other travelers on commuter lines as well as those up and down the Northeast Corridor.
But as the developer, Hartz Mountain Industries, prepares to submit its plan to the Newark Planning Board on April 16, new problems are threatening the project. Moreover, if the problems are not resolved, say officials of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which operates the airport, the authority may be forced to veto the project all together. 
While many people involved in the project, including Mayor Sharpe James, would cast the Port Authority as the leering, mustache-twisting villain of this piece because of the hurdles it has placed in the way of the hotel and conference center, development in older urban areas that are densely populated and near airports has always been a dicey affair -- fraught with delays, clashing interests and the vagaries of the business cycle.
That said, Mayor James has had nothing but praise for Hartz Mountain for the perseverance it have shown and hopes that there is more where that came from.
A decade ago, the project was first bedeviled by a costly and time-consuming environmental cleanup to remove hydrocarbons and heavy metals from the Waverly Yards, which had been a staging area for locomotives that hauled freight and passengers. About $6 million in federal and private funds were put together in one of the state's first brownfields cleanup projects.
But then the Port Authority objected to the complex on the grounds that the height and location of the 600-room hotel ran afoul of the Federal Aviation Administration's rules governing the proximity of buildings to the center line of airport glide paths.
In response, said Emmanuel Stern, the president and chief executive of Hartz Mountain, he scaled down the height and moved the building to comply with aviation agency's requirement that it be 350 feet from the center line of the glide path.
Next, questions arose about arcane but well-settled federal restrictions on the use of airport-related facilities like the monorail, which is financed with airport-generated revenue: Could Mr. Stern construct an enclosed walkway connecting the hotel and the train station?
Projects financed by the federally authorized Passenger Facility Charge like the monorail and the station must be for the exclusive use of airport patrons, said aviation agency officials, and providing access to the hotel might turn the station into a regular stop on the Amtrak or commuter line for those going somewhere other than the airport.
Together, the cost of the one-mile extension of the monorail and the station complex -- where it will join with the Amtrak and New Jersey Transit line, is $415 million, said a spokesman for the Port Authority, and $250 million of that cost is being paid for out of the Passenger Facility Charge. The extension and the station are due to open in September.
Mr. Stern's solution to this problem, which was ultimately approved by the aviation agency, was to promise to set up a concierge desk and service in the connecting walkway between the station and the hotel. Attendants in suits and ties would assist travelers -- and restrict access between the hotel and station to all but arriving or departing air travelers.
The arrangement meant losing the easy comingling of train and airline travelers that he had envisioned, said Mr. Stern, but he remained confident of the project as a business venture.
"The airport isn't going away, and it is the fastest-growing airport in the region," said Mr. Stern. "So there is not a chance that we would pull the plug on this project."
That prediction is likely to be tested.
Chris Ward, director of planning and external affairs for the Port Authority, said that the developer's earlier accommodation -- moving the proposed hotel site to fit the aviation agency's requirements that it be 350 feet from the center line of the glide path -- may prove inadequate. 
"It fell short of a stricter, 500-feet requirement that airlines had voluntarily adopted," Mr. Ward said.
The voluntary 500-foot guideline is the work of the International Civil Aviation Organization, a 187-nation group founded in 1944 to promote uniform safety standards for airports serving international carriers.
He added that this "self-imposed safety" guideline was likely to lead airlines to limit the weight and number of passengers on flights destined to land or take off on that particular runway, thereby limiting its value to the airport.
But Denis Chagnon, a spokesman in the Montreal office of the International Civil Aviation Organization, said that its guidelines were aimed at airport operators rather than airlines, adding that there were no sanctions imposed on those who do not adhere. 
Mr. Chagnon , aware of the differences in the aviation agency and the international organization, said that while there had been discussions about adopting the stricter standards, he knew of no changes or alterations in airline practices at locations that observed the F.A.A. standards.
In the meantime, Mr. Ward conceded that for Hartz to move the building any farther to meet the stricter standard would mean not only more delays but also the loss of the ability to develop an adjacent and additional site on the rail yard property. Mr. Stern had envisioned additional offices and parking on this site, and Mr. Ward said that the Port Authority was willing to give reasonable compensation for the loss of the ability to build anything else there.
"The Port Authority has been supportive of the Hartz project, but it must also ensure the economic viability of the airport and most importantly public safety," said Mr. Ward. "We are currently in active negotiation with Hartz to reach an acceptable financial solution and construct the hotel outside of the restrictive glide path and at the same time provide access to the station."
For his part Mr. Stern said that the negotiations on this latest problem had "stalled" in recent months, but that he had not completely closed the door. He said he was determined to put his project before the planning board in hopes of moving the hotel proposal forward another step even while it was seemingly left circling or sitting on the tarmac like some delayed flight.
Long before the latest obstacle, Mayor James had lost patience with what he saw as the Port Authority's dilatory tactics. Throughout the project's troubled history, the Port Authority had not so secretly coveted the land for itself, the mayor said, and sought to protect the airport-based Marriott Hotel from any competition.
Mr. Ward denied the accusations, but the mayor was adamant.
"The Port Authority threw every obstacle at them to make them think it wasn't a doable project all because they wanted to get the land for themselves," he said in an interview. "They tried to tell us that we didn't want this project. But we stuck to our plan, and now we stand to get not only an airport hotel but one that serves the city also."

GRAPHIC: Photos: An old rail yard stands idle as plans to develop it with a hotel and conference center have been delayed. Work on a Newark Airport monorail extension, inset. (Photographs by Dith Pran/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (92%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (90%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); PORT AUTHORITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (90%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); TRAINS (89%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (89%); CIVIL AVIATION (89%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); AIRPORT OPERATION (76%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (76%); AIRLINES (76%); CITY LIFE (76%); VETO (72%); CITIES (71%); BROWNFIELD SITES (70%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (70%); POPULATION DENSITY (70%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (68%); HEAVY METALS & TOXIC MINERALS (63%); EXECUTIVES (60%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; AIRPORTS; HOTELS AND MOTELS; RAILROADS; TRANSIT SYSTEMS; CONVENTIONS AND CONFERENCES; MONORAILS; NEWARK INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT (NJ) 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (69%); NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (57%); HARTZ MOUNTAIN INDUSTRIES INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: HARTZ MOUNTAIN INDUSTRIES; AMTRAK; NEW JERSEY TRANSIT 

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (69%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (69%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (57%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (57%)

PERSON: SMOTHERS, RONALD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (95%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEWARK (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2001 



13 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 3; Society Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 213 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS; 
Lekha Menon, Jason Patrick

 BODY:
Lekha Menon and Jason Richard Patrick were married in a civil ceremony on Wednesday by Blanca Ramos, a deputy city clerk at the New York City Municipal Building. On March 11, the couple had a Hindu ceremony at the Guruvayur Temple in Guruvayur, India, which was led by Sri Vaidyanathan Namboothiripad, a priest. 
 The bride, 33, is keeping her name. She is the director of research and donor relations in the fund-raising department at New York University. She graduated from Barnard College. She is a daughter of Jayshree and Unni Menon of Durham, N.C. Her father retired as an engineer in the Ras Tanura, Saudi Arabia, office of Saudi Aramco, the oil company. 
 The bridegroom, 29, is a scientist at Environmental Defense, formerly called the Environmental Defense Fund, a nonprofit organization specializing in scientific, economic and legal analysis of environmental issues in New York. He graduated from the University of California at Berkeley and received a master's degree in environmental management from Yale. His parents work at Middlesex Community College in Middleton, Conn., where the bridegroom's mother is a professor of art and the chairwoman of the art department and his father is a political science professor and chairman of the political science department.

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); ENGINEERING (78%); HINDUS & HINDUISM (77%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (76%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (75%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); FUNDRAISING (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%) WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS 

COMPANY: SAUDI ARAMCO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE (83%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (57%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (57%)

PERSON: MENON, LEKHA; PATRICK, JASON RICHARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); DURHAM, NC, USA (54%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2001 



14 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 694 words

HEADLINE: ON THE CONTRARY; 
Money Can Motivate. So Can Love of the Job.

BYLINE:  By DANIEL AKST; Daniel Akst's column tilts at conventional business wisdom and appears the first Sunday of each month. E-mail: culmoney@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
VINCENT VAN GOGH made virtually nothing from his paintings. James Joyce, the author, lived in poverty. And America's school bus drivers earn, on average, just $10.76 an hour.
 Despite their relative penury, these people can teach a lesson to American companies about executive compensation. After all, one of the main arguments offered in defense of sky-high pay for chief executives is that they need incentives to do a good job. 
 But is money such a great motivator? In some ways, yes. Systems that radically divorce productivity from reward are destined to fail, as they have in the past. Yet it should come as no surprise that, once their basic needs are met, people are motivated by a lot more than money. And the better the job, the less important money seems to be.
Consider Joe DiMaggio. He cared deeply about money and bitterly resented the feudal system that deprived him of bargaining power with the New York Yankees. Despite feeling underpaid, he still managed to be a great baseball player. Similarly, van Gogh and Joyce excelled without multimillion-dollar stock options. And school bus drivers apparently need no great financial incentive to keep our children safe. 
The president of the United States, meanwhile, has an annual salary of $400,000, a pittance for a high-powered executive. (It was just $200,000 until January, when it was increased for the first time since 1969.) Yet there is never a shortage of candidates for that job. Among the 50 states, not a single governorship has gone begging for want of bonuses and stock options.
Is running a public company so much more onerous? Is that why John F. Welch Jr. of General Electric made $144.5 million last year? And did it get so much harder for the admittedly able Mr. Welch that he deserved an increase of more than 100 percent from the previous year?
None of this is to say that gigantic paydays are bad; I myself would love to enjoy a few, and Bernie Williams, DiMaggio's latest successor as the Yankees' center fielder, is entitled to whatever astronomical sum he can get, since the free agent system amounts to an open auction for his services.
The problem is that the pay of America's chief executives is not much subject to the discipline of the marketplace; the whole process is far too chummy, with many executives in effect paying themselves and claiming that they will do a good job only for a compensation package that would make Croesus blush. 
Despite chief executives' insatiable needs for incentives, there is a body of evidence suggesting that pay for performance is not a very effective workplace motivator, at least when compared with others like giving employees a sense of mission, worth and proprietorship. Pay for performance probably is most effective in settings where the work isn't much fun and the output can be counted easily. Piecework pay for making widgets will generally result in more widgets per hour worked. But it begs credulity to suggest that an extra $10 million for the chief executive will finally make him put his nose to the grindstone.
The late W. Edwards Deming, a guru of quality control, was a particularly vigorous opponent of trying to pay for performance, as Andrea Gabor points out in "The Capitalist Philosophers" (Times Books). Deming believed that if you hired the right people for the right jobs and put them into the right environment, everyone would perform pretty well.
Pay for performance is particularly dubious in bad times: During a recession, Ms. Gabor writes, pay for performance becomes a zero-sum game that produces more losers than winners. A bigger slice for the chief executive can mean smaller slices for everyone else.
WITH the economy slowing and stocks in a slump, shareholders may finally become less tolerant of excessive executive compensation and severance packages. In effect, the chiefs will have to do more work for less money.
I predict, and you heard it here first, that there will be no wholesale resignations, despite the great hardships of running businesses on a few million dollars less. America's chief executives will just have to learn what any school bus driver can already tell you: money isn't everything.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (David Suter) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (90%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (90%); MERIT PAY (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BASEBALL (88%); STOCK OPTIONS (87%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (77%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); ATHLETES (67%); US PRESIDENTS (51%) LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (56%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (53%); GEC (LSE) (53%); GE (SWX) (53%); GE (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: JACK WELCH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2001 



15 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1244 words

HEADLINE: Personal Business; 
Profits Are Down. So, Boss, Can I Have That Raise?

BYLINE:  By JOBERT E. ABUEVA

 BODY:
NOT long ago, many good employees who wanted more money needed only to stroll into the boss's office and ask. Even the hint that a valued worker might jump ship in a tight labor market was often enough to prompt a raise, or perhaps other perks, like stock options or a better job title.
 But that is not nearly as common these days. With the economy slowing, some employers are looking for ways to cut expenses and improve profits by freezing wages, reducing their work forces or streamlining operations. And it is not just struggling dot-coms that are feeling the pinch; corporations like Procter & Gamble, Lucent Technologies and Boeing are also cutting jobs. 
 Companies that continue to offer regular raises are doing so modestly. The average merit increase for salaried workers, excluding top executives, is expected to remain unchanged from last year, at about 4 percent, according to the 2001 Report on Salary Surveys, published by the Institute of Management and Administration in New York. 
"The projections remain modest because salaries have already been raised in response to the tight job market, and inflation has been low," said Laime Vaitkus, editor of a monthly newsletter published by the management institute. "In many cases, any merit increases a manager submits over the allotted percentage have to be justified and approved by executive management."
Does that mean a sizable raise is out of the question? Not necessarily, say experts in career counseling and compensation. "If you are able to build a compelling case, now is as good a time as any to ask for a raise," said Lewis Kravitz, an executive coach and organizational consultant in Atlanta. 
Even when an employer is facing a financial crunch, Mr. Kravitz said, negotiating a raise is still possible, particularly for high-performing employees. As work forces shrink, the experienced, qualified worker may be seen as a valuable asset in getting a company through tough times. "But one needs to take initiative and do lots of homework" before approaching a supervisor for more money, Mr. Kravitz added.
FOR starters, it helps to know how much you are worth in the open market. Comparative salary data is available at Web sites like jobstar.org and salary.com, as well as through the Department of Labor (www.bls.gov) and industry-specific sites like law.com. 
But, Mr. Kravitz warned, "one can no longer assume that just because an employee with a like job at a major competitor is making more than you, that you should try and obtain the same."
Employee compensation involves far more than base salary. Besides benefits like pensions, retirement plans and health insurance, it may include bonuses, commissions and other long-term incentives. In fact, 78 percent of 856 employers surveyed last year by Hewitt Associates, a benefits consulting firm in Lincolnshire, Ill., had at least one type of variable pay. That compares with just 47 percent in 1990.
"You have to look at the entire pay pie, which includes both current and deferred compensation," said MaryLee Amendolia, a principal at Rhodes Associates, an executive search firm in Manhattan. 
Career counselors say employees should focus on merit -- seeking raises contingent on meeting specific goals.
"Easier said than done," said Bobbe White, a business development officer and 20-year employee at State Street Bank in Quincy, Ill. Ms. White, 45, says she has brought in several new accounts, exceeding department goals, and deserves a merit raise, but she has yet to receive one despite her well-placed hints. (She acknowledges she had never considered asking for a raise; she just thought you either got one or you didn't come Feb. 1 each year.)
Many experts recommend that employees first prepare a presentation and then rehearse it with a friend or co-worker.
"Before approaching your boss, list all your accomplishments that in turn also become your boss's," Mr. Kravitz said, adding that his clients used such lists to initiate discussion. He said employees should also imagine themselves in the supervisor's shoes, in order to anticipate objections.
A marketing manager for a Fortune 500 health care company followed many of those suggestions when he recently asked for a raise. But instead of approaching his supervisor directly, he said, he made an appointment with a human resources manager to discuss his intention. 
"I was performing my job well yet felt I wasn't moving ahead when compared to my peers," said the executive, who spoke on condition of anonymity. "I sought an objective sounding board to explain why I felt I deserved more money. The H.R. manager heard my arguments, and thought I had a valid case and therefore encouraged me to voice my views upstairs."
Twenty-four hours after a conversation with his supervisor, the health care executive received a promotion and a double-digit percentage increase in salary. 
For their part, most supervisors are willing to listen, since it costs money to replace a dissatisfied employee who leaves. 
The Society for Human Resource Management, a trade group based in Alexandria, Va., estimated that an employer needs 50 days, on average, to fill a vacant position. 
The average cost of the hiring process is $4,588, according to the Saratoga Institute, a human resources research and consulting firm in Santa Clara, Calif., although that does not include fees, charged by many search firms, of up to one-third of the executive's financial package for the first year.
Many employees who ask to meet with their supervisors to discuss salary are dissatisfied with some aspect of their jobs and may be giving a warning that they may start looking elsewhere, said Robin Mingle, vice president for human resources at the North American power tool division of Black & Decker. Depending on the employee, management may want to heed the warning and give an employee a raise or other incentive, Ms. Mingle added.
"If we, as H.R. professionals do our job well," she added, "we can help steer discussions from becoming confrontational between employees and their manager."
During the talks, Ms. Amendolia advised, it helps to speak in general terms and not to put a price on your head. She suggested discussing increases in percentages. 
"A boss will be more inclined to grant a 2 percent increase on additional revenue you generate rather than $25,000," she said, even if that $25,000 is a small fraction of a department's operating budget.
If you do not get what you want, Ms. Amendolia added, be open about it and ask when the company might reconsider and what goals you should strive for. Giving an employer an ultimatum is never a good idea, she said.
Of course, if money is truly tight, there may be other perks available, like more vacation, a better office, a job title or a more flexible schedule.
THAT was the tack that Ellen Fuller of Doylestown, Pa., took when she recently negotiated with her employer, the American Dairy Association/Dairy Council Middle Atlantic in Philadelphia. Instead of a raise, Ms. Fuller asked for changes that included working three days a week from home and two days in the office, at the same pay, so she could spend more time with her 6-year-old son and 11-year-old daughter. 
Ms. Fuller, the director for nutrition education and marketing at the association, said her negotiations went smoothly because she was able to offer a compromise. 
"I enjoy the flexibility of telecommuting," she said, "not to mention the savings in time and transportation costs."

GRAPHIC: Photo: MaryLee Amendolia, a principal at an executive search firm, suggested discussing raises in percentages, not dollars. (Carol Halebian for The New York Times) ChartThe average raise for workers has been flat in the last few years . . .Graph shows average raise for salaried exempt workers from 1990-2000. . . . but more companies are adopting variable pay . . .Graph shows percentage of more than 800 companies surveyed that use performance-based pay for workers, excluding top executives from 1990-2000. . . . and are spending more on this type of compensationGraph shows spending on performance-based pay as a percentage of total payroll, excluding top executives from 1990-2000. (Source: Hewitt Associates)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MERIT PAY (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LABOR FORCE (89%); SALARY SURVEYS (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); BUSINESS COACHING & MENTORING (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); INTERNET & WWW (75%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); STOCK OPTIONS (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); APPROVALS (69%); HEALTH INSURANCE (60%); PERSONAL FINANCE (60%) LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT 

COMPANY: AON HEWITT (84%); ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (70%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (57%); BOEING CO (56%)

TICKER: ALU (PAR) (70%); ALU (NYSE) (70%); ALU (BIT) (70%); PGP (PAR) (57%); PG (NYSE) (57%); BOE (LSE) (56%); BAB (BRU) (56%); BA (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561110 OFFICE ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES (84%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (84%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (70%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (70%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (70%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (57%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (57%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (57%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2001 



16 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: COPING; 
Another Harlem On Their Minds

BYLINE:  By FELICIA R. LEE 

 BODY:
THE Starbucks at Lenox Avenue and 125th Street was filled the other day with symbols of a changing Harlem: white tourists, speaking French and German; black professionals talking about their businesses; and young white newcomers, sipping latte and talking about the brownstones they owned a few blocks away.
 That no-fuss scene would have been unthinkable 10 years ago, when Harlem had become a place synonymous with urban blight. But the home of the Harlem Renaissance is undergoing another rebirth. 
 The 2000 Census found that the neighborhood grew by 3,000 people since 1990, and is home to more than 106,000 New Yorkers. Though the total of non-Hispanic whites in Harlem remains a blip, at just over 2 percent, that figure is up from 1.5 percent in 1990. Many say the real numbers are higher, because the current boom is still so new. 
One of those in the Starbucks was Reggie James, head of NuJapple, a black marketing firm in Harlem. In 1987, his company produced what he said was the first tourist map of Harlem. His hope was to revamp the neighborhood's image. Recently, the company reissued the map, trying to capture both the changes and the people and places that made the neighborhood famous. 
"One of my missions is to see that small businesses in Harlem thrive," Mr. James said. A map, he said, is a handy way to ensure that no one is overlooked. "I'm talking about black businesses that get pushed out when the rents start going up when an area becomes fashionable."
The map includes faith institutions, art galleries and historical landmarks. It has the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture on Malcolm X Boulevard as well as the Diamond Gym at 145th Street, a recent arrival. Mostly a colorful pictorial representation, the map also has text about the "resurgent Harlem" in Italian, French, Spanish, German and Japanese as well as English.
Mr. James, who plans to update the map in July and again next summer, grew up in Crown Heights, Brooklyn, but has a special fondness for Harlem, which he calls the "black mecca" of the world.
But people from the neighborhood, like Carol Baugh, who grew up there and is the funeral director at Henry W. Payne Funeral Directors, say that "mecca" is far less black these days, despite the census numbers. She and other blacks in business in the neighborhood are asking questions such as, Who owns Harlem and how should it be defined? Is it a black mecca where blacks have a special claim? Or is it a destined to become a trendy, diverse uptown community that was once mostly black?
Ms. Baugh, chatting with Mr. James in Starbucks, said she applauded the new diversity, but she feared that some black businesses may be forced out and some black people may not be able to afford the new prices.
In the 1930's her grandfather started the funeral business she now runs. Situated on Lenox Avenue, between West 123rd and 124th Streets, it is on Mr. Jackson's map. 
"Harlem is going through a necessary resurgence," Ms. Baugh said, "but there is a move to push out those who have a claim, those who have been here for years."
Walter J. Edwards, a developer who also heads the 20-year-old Harlem Business Alliance, which has 50 members, sees the changes as a struggle between two groups. "One group says Harlem is being gentrified and taken over," he said, "and the other group says everyone is welcome. I agree with both groups, but no one is coming up with solutions. We must have some equity in this new renaissance. We must buy property or own franchises or become joint venture partners with some of the newcomers.
"Harlem is recognized worldwide as a black capital," he added. "If you push out the black people who held it together, it just becomes another piece of real estate."
Mr. James calls the new edition of his map, "Harlem USA and Upper Manhattan." The old version was simply called "Harlem USA." He explained that in 1987, no one cared that the map declared Harlem to be any street above 96th Street on the East and West Sides. Now, some people in communities like Morningside Heights do not want their area classified as part of Harlem, he said. People in other areas, like El Barrio on the East Side and Washington Heights on the West Side, want to be recognized as distinct communities, too.
The fight over who can lay claim to a place is an old one. Follow the economy and the vagaries of the housing market to predict the winners. There is a long tradition of neighborhoods being "discovered" and renamed, and real estate boundaries reconfigured. That phenomenon predates Harlem and even New York City itself.
Remember Christopher Columbus?

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Lisa Haney) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (78%); TRENDS (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (75%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); CENSUS (71%); PRICE CHANGES (69%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); HISTORIC SITES (50%) SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BLACKS; HISPANIC-AMERICANS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: LEE, FELICIA R 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY; HARLEM (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2001 



17 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 984 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING WITH/Richard A. Mayo; 
The Pelican Fund

BYLINE:  By CAROLE GOULD

 BODY:
FINALLY, it seems, value matters.
 After years when indiscriminate investors were willing to ignore matters like competitive strategy and profit -- driving stock prices to unsustainable levels -- a focus on business fundamentals is coming back into style. And that is a good thing as far as Richard A. Mayo is concerned. 
 "We always had trouble seeing how you value companies that earn no money and might not earn any for three years," said Mr. Mayo, who runs the $120 million Pelican Fund. "What we can see in the marketplace now is that valuation matters and will continue to matter for a long time." 
His unwavering attention to value has served him well in a declining market. The fund returned 5.6 percent a year, on average, for the three years ended Thursday, versus 2.1 percent for its large-value peers and 2.9 percent for the Standard & Poor's 500 index, according to Morningstar Inc. For the last 12 months, it returned 15 percent, versus a 0.2 percent loss for its peer group and a loss of 23 percent for the S.& P.
His investment style is opportunistic, Mr. Mayo said, like its namesake's fishing style. "Pelicans fly around until they see fish, and then swoop down and gobble them up," Mr. Mayo explained from his office, which overlooks Boston Harbor. Pelican is the only retail fund offered by Grantham, Mayo, Van Otterloo & Company, which also manages about $20 billion in institutional accounts.
Mr. Mayo, 58, works with six analysts to select the 100 or so stocks in the fund from roughly 3,000 United States companies with market capitalizations of more than $350 million; the fund's weighted average market cap is $35.6 billion.
Valuation is his mantra. "We try to find stocks that we believe sell for a significant discount to what we believe is their intrinsic worth," he said. "To do that, we're willing to be early and to look places where other people won't." He defines intrinsic value as the net present value of the cash that can be generated from a company's operations or sale of its assets.
When he finds nothing of value, Mr. Mayo stays on the sidelines. Earlier this year, he built the fund's cash position to 18 percent, compared with its usual 5 to 10 percent.
"As technology spending dried up, the economy fell faster and created a bigger squeeze on profit margins than most people had thought," he said. More recently, as valuations have continued to fall, he has been preparing to move back into the market, aiming to acquire stocks at what he thinks are 30 to 50 percent discounts to their intrinsic values.
While Mr. Mayo screens for stocks with low price-to-earnings multiples and similar value criteria, the bulk of the fund's purchases come from ideas generated during meetings with management, industry conferences and reports from Wall Street analysts. 
Currently, he sees value among energy stocks, which comprise the fund's biggest sector at 15 percent of assets and which he began buying in mid-1999. Mr. Mayo said he began attending energy conferences several years back, at a time when the sector had already underperformed the market for about seven years. "Most energy executives then were starting to worry that production was not meeting expectations," he said. "Also, most companies had bad balance sheets, so they weren't able to spend the money they needed to upgrade operations."
The prices of the energy stocks, he added, did not reflect his belief that oil and natural-gas prices would increase significantly because of limited supplies.
Another of Mr. Mayo's investment themes involves companies that other investors have penalized out of fear that the Internet would undermine their businesses.
And in general, he looks for companies with stable earnings that demonstrate improved earnings growth or profitability.
MR. MAYO generally trims positions in stocks as they approach what he considers as full valuation. He also sells shares when companies prove unable to improve their return on investment.
The fund's position in bonds, which peaked at 20 percent in 1990, has shriveled to 2 percent as yields have fallen to an average of 5 percent. Over all, the fund yields 2.7 percent, about double the yield of the S.& P. 500. 
Mr. Mayo recently bought more shares of Occidental Petroleum, the oil and gas company. He called Occidental a "classic contrary-opinion play," adding that he disagreed with the conventional wisdom that Occidental overpaid for a series of recent oil property acquisitions in Texas and California. To pay for the properties, Mr. Mayo said, Occidental sold unprofitable Canadian operations and its midcontinental pipeline. Management has significantly increased cash flow, improving its balance sheet, he said; he expects five-year earnings growth to average 12 percent a year. 
He started the position in June 1997 at $24.125 a share; it now trades at $24.75. He says the stock has an intrinsic value of $32.34.
Another favorite is the Kroger Company, which operates supermarkets and jewelry, convenience and other stores. 
Kroger generates significant free cash flow, which management uses for stock buybacks, he said. He predicts earnings to grow 12 percent a year, on average, over five years.
Mr. Mayo bought shares in March 2000 at an average of $14.90 and buys more when the stock price dips. The stock now trades at $25.79; he says its intrinsic value is $30.
He has been buying shares of First Union, the banking giant, since the start of this year, paying an average of $28. Starting last year, he said, new management sold off unprofitable operations and aligned employee compensation with improved profitability. He expects the company's diversified business model, ranging from commercial and retail banking and trust services to home equity lending, insurance and securities brokerage, to create five-year earnings growth averaging 10 percent a year.
On Friday, the shares closed at $33; he put their intrinsic value at $41.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Richard A. Mayo in his wine cellar. As a fund manager, he is glad that old valuation measures are back. (Rick Friedman for The New York Times) Chart: "Pelican Fund"Category: Large valueNet assets: $120 millionInception: May 1989Manager: Richard A. Mayo since inceptionMinimum purchase: $5,000 (same for I.R.A.'s)Portfolio turnover: 32% 3-year annualized return through Thursday: 5.6%Category average: 2.1% Other: 41%Financials: 10%Technology: 11%Consumer cyclicals: 11%Real estate investment trusts: 12%Energy: 15% FeesFront-end load: NoneDeferred load: None12b-1 fee: NoneExpense ratio: 0.75% (Sources: Morningstar Inc.; company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); BONDS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (60%) STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: MORNINGSTAR INC (69%); GRANTHAM MAYO VAN OTTERLOO LLC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: THE PELICAN FUND 

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (69%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%)

PERSON: MAYO, RICHARD A 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2001 



18 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1092 words

HEADLINE: BACKSPIN; 
The Uncrimped Lifestyles of the Rich and Feckless

BYLINE:  By RICK MARIN 

 BODY:
A YOUNGISH couple comes into R 20th Century, a furniture and design store in TriBeCa that sells midcentury modern stuff. They see a $5,500 hanging lamp by Verner Panton, admire it and, a few days later, come back with their 6-year-old daughter to see if she likes it. 
 The lamp is for her room. 
 Zesty Meyers, a co-owner of the store, couldn't believe it. The couple bought that lamp and another one for their 2-year-old. "Last month was our best month ever, by far," he said. "Not by like 10 percent. Like 30 to 40 percent better." 
At the Park, the new club-restaurant-lounge in West Chelsea, the young and feckless throw back $11 cocktails. And Jeffrey New York, the boutique in the meatpacking district, can't keep a $720 Balenciaga handbag in stock. "I had several and they were gone by the weekend," Jeffrey Kalinsky, the owner, said. "We're not in a recession." 
Not judging by the behavior of the spending class -- New Yorkers who are or like to act rich and who refuse to let a few leading economic indicators cramp their style. 
"Fortunately or unfortunately," Mr. Kalinsky said, "there are people who are unscathed. Or people who find shopping to be one of the things that they don't have to give up."
One of the revelers at the Park on Wednesday night was Emy Shayo, an economist at Bear, Stearns. Ms. Shayo, 27, was out with a group of friends for drinks and dinner.
"I just bought season tickets for the Met, a new computer and two gym memberships," Ms. Shayo said. Her firm had laid off 400 people, she said, but the survivors feel secure. "We're not going to lose our jobs," she said. "I have faith in the economy. I have faith in Alan Greenspan."
One of her friends, Rafael Corres, 31, a corporate lawyer from Mexico, said that he was getting fewer new clients but that it hadn't affected his spending habits. "It's not reflected in people's pockets," he said. "We still earn the same money we earned a year ago." 
He had just made plans to fly to Argentina to visit his brother. "It will be an expensive trip," he said. 
The waitress came over, and the group ordered a bottle of Champagne. 
In another part of the bar, a man with a Middle Eastern accent could be overheard outlining his entrepreneurial vision to his date, a woman whose low-cut blouse brought to mind the old -- was it James Bond? -- line, "That's a nice little nothing you're almost wearing."
The man told the woman, "I want to start a jewelry business and sell giant diamond crosses to rappers." She stared wide-eyed in his direction. You couldn't really identify the music coming over the sound system, but it may have been a techno remix of that club classic "Fiddling While Rome Burns."
Helicopter Services and Instruction, based at Essex County Airport in New Jersey, announced last week that it will offer flights from Manhattan to the Hamptons for "only $303.57" each way. A package for the season goes for $8,500. Of the 50 available packages, "about 15 or 20" have already been sold, Jay Bloom, the company's chief executive, said. 
Is this the ideal economic climate in which to be starting a helicopter service to the Hamptons? 
"I was kind of surprised at the reception we got," Mr. Bloom said. Surprised that people were still so willing to indulge themselves? "It's not necessarily an indulgence. People just don't want to deal with the traffic," he said. And compared to the $1,800 fare of some helicopter services, Mr. Bloom's price is a bargain. "It's comparable to a limo," he said. 
Such is the calculus of this almost-maybe recession, even though Diane Saatchi, president of Dayton-Halstead, a real estate agency in the Hamptons, is seeing a much cooler market than last summer. "There is more inventory at the top end now than at this time last year," she said. "And at all points of the market." Last year, would-be renters would come out on a Friday, look at three or four places and sign a contract by Monday, Ms. Saatchi said. Now, "they can't make up their minds," she said. "They keep coming back to look more. They say, 'Maybe just a month.' "
Mr. Meyers, of R 20th Century, speculated that New Yorkers may have shifted the focus of their conspicuous consumption. 
"Maybe there are dinners or lunches or a sports car that get cut out," he said. "But for a piece of furniture that they're going to live with the rest of their lives, they're willing to spend." At his store, a $10,000 shelving unit by George Nelson had a "sold" tag on it. A rare Osvaldo Borsani coat rack had just been snapped up for $3,200. And Mr. Meyers had removed a $4,200 coffee table by Tapio Wirkkala from the floor because "they were selling too fast."
"There's not as much volume," Mr. Meyers said. "But the people who are coming in aren't just window-shopping."
Or window-eating. A call this week to Craft, Tom Colicchio's brand-new restaurant on East 19th Street, for a short-notice dinner reservation was greeted with: "We can take you at 5:30. Do you want to be put on the waiting list?"
For the long view on high-end dining in depressed times, consider March, on the Upper East Side. It opened in 1990, "one month after the federal government officially declared a recession," said Wayne Nish, March's chef and owner. "We hung out a flag that said 'Truffles and Foie Gras.' "
For his let-them-eat-caviar attitude, Mr. Nish was rewarded with three-star reviews. 
These days his beggar's purses -- lobster with black truffles, osetra and creme fraiche, foie gras and smoked salmon -- are going "at a very strong rate," Mr. Nish said. At $20 apiece.
Back at the Park, a lawyer and a consultant were sipping and flirting at the bar. Were either of them cutting back in any way?
Tom Summers, the lawyer, said, "Since I pay for everything, I don't think she's cutting back."
Christine Derisi, the consultant, added, "Whether I go out or not depends more on the weather than on the economy."
"The downturn hasn't tangibly affected me yet," Mr. Summers, 40, said. But it is giving him pause. "I'm the type that just puts the credit card down and pays for everyone," he said. "And I'm definitely thinking about that a little more."
Ms. Derisi, 30, said her most recent splurge was a vacation in Belize and Guatemala.
"We're in denial," he said.
"But you only live once," she added. They went on laughing and smiling.
But by 10:30 half the tables in the hottest new place in town were vacant. By midnight, just when a scene like the Park should be heating up, it was clearing out. The V.I.P. room upstairs was closed. Not just to nobodies. Empty.
Surely the beautiful people haven't been laid off?

GRAPHIC: Photo: The party is still going on at places like the Park, a new restaurant-bar in West Chelsea. (Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)(pg. 2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); RESTAURANTS (78%); RETAILERS (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); RECESSION (72%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (71%); TRENDS (69%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (67%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (51%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LIFE STYLES; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR 

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS COS INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (50%) MARIN, RICK 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); ARGENTINA (75%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2001 



19 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1793 words

HEADLINE: Split the Check: New York's Free Lunch Is Gone 

BYLINE:  By RACHEL LEHMANN-HAUPT 

 BODY:
HERE'S news from a leading economic indicator -- Jim's Shoe Repair on East 59th Street, where the other day the seats were filled with waiting customers and conversation was humming. 
 An Hermes salesman in a pink button-down shirt lamented that traffic in his Madison Avenue store, home of the $385 beach towel, has slowed since its gaudy opening party last fall. A silver-haired mortgage consultant, Robert Haney, said that he's given up eating at the Metropolitan Cafe near Sutton Place and is patronizing a local diner for his hamburger and fries. And Jim Rocco, the shop's owner, said these days people are only repairing what is absolutely necessary, though few are giving up a shine. "It's a small luxury when you have to cut out the big ones," Mr. Haney said. "Instead of buying new shoes, I'll have my old ones resoled." 
Shoes may be shinier, but from Madison Avenue to SoHo, the Upper West Side to the Flatiron district, there is a duller consumer mood, and a lot of talk of personal retrenchment. The $4 double-shot latte is being replaced with coffee brewed at home. The $100 business lunch at the Mercer Kitchen has become the $40 lunch at a low-key no-name restaurant near work. 
With the stock market still probing desperately for a bottom, as investors say, and daily reports of layoffs coming in big round units of 5,000 and 10,000, the sense of uneasiness is spreading, even if a majority of economists say the country will avoid a recession. 
The number of those actually pink-slipped, like well-publicized dot-com workers, may be small; but a perception of coming hardships is widespread, and it is causing people to retrench. They are dressing more soberly, taking their entertaining into the privacy of their homes and cutting back on luxuries that had come to seem like necessities -- California cult wines, summer rentals, retro-hip George Nelson sofas. New York's wild party is winding down. 
"A year ago I wouldn't bat an eye over buying a $4,000 couch," said Chris Leba, 37, a clothing designer. "I don't make any less money now, but my mind-set has changed because I've lost a lot in the stock market. Now if I see a great couch I'm not going to buy it, because it would be tacky to spend that kind of money when so many people I know are getting laid off every other day."
The worlds of style track the economy -- not just in the obvious sense that consumers spend less when money is tight and they are pessimistic about the future; the message conveyed by what they buy also changes. During the big economic hit of the early 1990's, restaurants sought to soothe the shellshocked with value-oriented comfort food, discos gave way to quiet lounges and fashion faded to minimalist black. There was a moralizing overtone to those adjustments, a repentance of the opulence of the 80's. 
The economic slide of 2001 is nowhere near as severe, and may never become so. But already the style world is registering a mood shift. At last month's European runway shows for fall 2001, black returned as a dominant color, and there were echoes of the somber, withholding fashions of early-90's Prada and Helmut Lang. 
"There is very little frivolity, and that was a big thing a season ago," said Katherine Betts, editor in chief of Harper's Bazaar. "Everything from fur to bright pinks and reds. There was this whole pop generation of bright prints and bright graphics. It was over the top. I think people will feel self-conscious wearing that now. 
"In general the whole social mood is like that. "We were planning a whole party issue, but no one seemed interested in parties. Puffy and paparazzi and the downtown parties have sort of disappeared. It's not just the economy, it's the whole extravagance of being public. I think people are sort of turned off by that now. People are getting more private again."
Vicki Ross, a fashion consultant for L'Oreal and other companies, said: "I don't see myself buying something really expensive right now. I'd rather buy something from a vintage store. Something that is beautifully made and has gorgeous buttons, rather than some seasonal trend item in the department store."
Nationwide, sales at department and specialty store chains, including Saks, Bloomingdale's and Macy's, were down in February, the latest figures show. Kurt Barnard, president of Barnard's Retail Trend Report, said: "There has been no change among the very wealthy, but people who over the last couple of years have graduated from traditional department stores to specialty stores have become more cautious, because they don't have accumulated wealth and they spend much of what they earn. They were buying expensive designer clothes, jewelry and cars. Now they are buying more for their home. In times of instability, the home is a bulwark against the uncertainties of life."
Stephen Weiss, 24, understands that. A year ago he was working 70-hour weeks for RedFilter, an Internet direct-marketing company, and though he never lived lavishly, he could go out every evening, taking advantage of the endless round of Silicon Alley parties, where the drinks and hors d'oeuvres flowed freely. 
Since RedFilter went out of business a month ago, he has been spending quiet evenings at home. "I've been cleaning out my apartment because for the past two years I've been throwing everything into bags because I was too busy to organize it," he said.
"I was never living that large," he added. "I was making in the mid-20's, but it was more about the expectations. Most of us thought there was a chance that we could be millionaires. The worst thing I did last year was to tell my mother that this time next year she could retire."
Casey Kait, his girlfriend, 23, who was also recently laid off from her job as an associate editor at Salon.com, the online magazine, said that even before losing a paycheck, she had begun scaling back. "I was working on Fifth Avenue in the Flatiron district, and during the boom I would often go to Intermix at lunch and buy a $100 shirt," Ms. Kait said. "Not only did I start to bring my lunch to work, but I would eat it at my desk so I wouldn't go out and shop."
Mr. Weiss and Ms. Kait are now living, modestly, off the book advance for an oral history they are compiling, "Digital Hustlers: Living Large and Falling Hard in Silicon Alley," to be published by ReganBooks. 
Among Internet executives with jobs still to go to, Ken Kurson, editor at large of Money magazine and the founding editor of Green magazine, a personal finance publication for young people that folded in February, has noticed that they no longer dress in aggressively casual styles. "Now they're trying to look like they could fit in at I.B.M. in 1969, to show their investors that they can act more fiscally responsible," he said.
The dot-com workday has shrunk from 14 hours to one more typical of other industries, Mr. Kurson observed, now that dreams of stock-option fortunes have died. "Nobody is working crazy hours," he said. "I think President Bush has something to do with it. He works until 6 and goes home." 
Even the furnishings of Internet companies are coming down to earth. "It used to be if a company had fancy furniture and a nice office, that meant they were doing really well," said Brad Farkas, the managing principal of i-Hatch Ventures, a Manhattan venture-capital firm with a portfolio of technology companies. "Now if we go visit a company and it's all furnished with Ikea and other failed dot-coms' furniture, that speaks well of them."
The expectations of coming misery casting a shadow over discretionary spending are the flip side of irrational exuberance. 
"You had a lot of people who were very prosperous in the stock market or from the Internet and wanted a taste of the good life," said Jason Ader, a leisure analyst with Bear, Stearns, "so they stretched their resources to stay in the best hotels and eat at the best restaurants. That demand has all but dried up. I've started to get reports that restaurants' Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday business is slowing, and lunch is much slower."
Restaurants are always a bellwether of New York's mood, sensitive to everything from expense-account entertaining to the courtship rituals of singles. And here, the report is mixed. There are no mass closings, as there were a decade ago. Ambitious chefs continue to announce new projects, like Jean-Georges Vongerichten, who is coming to the meatpacking district, his business partner said last week. 
Tim Zagat, the restaurant guide publisher, said places that are feeling a crunch are overpriced scene restaurants, while midpriced bistros are doing better because they attract diners in a cautious mood. "I'm not sure if it's the weather or the economy, but things were slower this winter," he said. "I wouldn't go so far as to call it austerity, but I think people are being more selective and thinking about the value more than when money was sloshing around and they didn't think twice about slapping down an extra $5 tip."
John Harding, marketing director for Restaurant Associates, which owns Cafe Centro, Cucina & Company and the Brasserie on East 53rd street, confirmed that. "Business is still pretty strong in our mid-level restaurants," he said. "The Brasserie is as strong as it was this time last year." 
"There is a belt tightening that I think has a lot to do with perception rather than reality," he added. "I think this perception has many people cutting back on expense accounts."
Mark Wood, the owner of Canteen in SoHo and Commune in the Flatiron district, two restaurants known more for their scenes than their kitchens, has noticed a wind shift on Tuesday nights, typically a big night out for Wall Streeters. 
"They used to come out and bring parties of six and eight for dinner and buy many bottles of wine," Mr. Wood said. His bars are busier than ever, he reported, and filling up earlier, but few stay for dinner. "They seem to be going to the bar right after work to have a few drinks and then going home to order in." 
At the "21" Club, the financial industry stalwart where deals have traditionally been celebrated with expense-account meals in the mid-four figures, Chris Shipley, the wine director, has seen a slackening in demand for California cult wines, your Screaming Eagles and Harlan Estates. "A lot of young people who made a lot of money on the stock market were buying these wines," he said, driving prices up to $5,000 a case. "They are almost like Internet stocks. Their values were inflated way beyond their intrinsic worth. I will continue to buy them, but I expect the days of restricting the sales in order to keep them on the list are over. In the past a party would come in and drink the entire year's allotment in one night, but it seems the feeding frenzy is calming down."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Stephen Weiss and Casey Kait, both of whom have lost their Internet jobs, have more time to organize the apartment. (Alan Chin for The New York Times)(pg. 6) Drawing (Bob Scott)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); SHOE & LEATHER REPAIR (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); TRENDS (89%); LAYOFFS (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (78%); RECESSION (78%); FASHION DESIGNERS (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); FASHION & APPAREL (73%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (73%); MARKET RESEARCH (71%); DISMISSALS (69%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (69%); FASHION DESIGN (68%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LIFE STYLES; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: LEHMANN-HAUPT, RACHEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2001 



20 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 633 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH; 
Micron's Bulls, Defying The Bubble

BYLINE:  By GRETCHEN MORGENSON 

 BODY:
THE sound of technology stock bubbles bursting has become all too familiar in recent months. Snap went the Internet stocks early last year. Crack went the shares of personal computer makers in the autumn. Pop went the big networking stocks this winter.
 All that makes it triply amazing that Micron Technology, one of the market's most ethereal stocks, remains at celestial heights. 
 Back on earth, Micron Technology is a commodity producer of semiconductors and memory products that run personal computers and other gadgets. Last Thursday, Micron announced woeful results for its second quarter, which ended March 1.
But all seems right in the heavens, for despite its crummy numbers, an overall depression in the PC business and deep uncertainty among other technology executives about future demand for their products, Micron's shares are 17 percent higher than they were at the beginning of the year.
How bad were Micron's numbers? Sales in its second quarter were $1.06 billion, down 42 percent from just three months earlier. The company's gross margins cascaded from 49 percent in its first quarter to 18 percent in its second. Continuing operations at Micron generated a $4 million loss in the latest quarter, versus $359 million earned in the previous one.
Investors weren't thrilled with these results, even though a handful of Wall Street analysts remain inexplicably high on Micron shares. The stock fell 11.6 percent on Friday, closing at $41.53. 
At that price, the company's market capitalization exceeds $24 billion. Its shares trade at a stunning 5.6 times sales, if you extrapolate out from its second-quarter results. 
Investors have made Micron the third-most-valuable semiconductor stock in the United States, behind Texas Instruments and Intel. Yet Intel is down 12.5 percent this year and Texas Instruments has lost 35 percent of its value.
Fred Hickey, editor of the High Tech Strategist in Nashua, N.H., says Micron is more cult than stock, because traders like its volatility. "It's the best barometer we have of the love affair still going on among investors in technology stocks," he said. Many dot-coms are dead, he added, "but Micron is there, standing tall at $24 billion on the hope that some day the DRAM market will pick up."
Mr. Hickey, who has followed technology stocks for more than 20 years, pointed out that in previous periods when Micron's operations were losing money, or barely making any, its stock traded at much lower valuations.
In 1998, Micron lost money and its shares traded at roughly 1.3 times its sales. And in 1992, when the company broke even, the stock traded at a price equal to its sales. 
Mr. Hickey thinks that Micron and other semiconductor stocks have remained high -- even as shares of their customers have plummeted -- because the performance of chip makers' operations lags behind that of PC makers, Internet service providers and networking concerns. "Semiconductors are the last great bubble area of technology," Mr. Hickey said. "Because earnings have held up better there, investors stay in the stocks, even though that is where the collapse will be the greatest."
Investors may also be bullish on semiconductor stocks because they expect memory prices to rise. That seems unlikely, given inventory levels. At Micron, inventories stood at $1.1 billion in the most recent quarter, up from $690 million last August. Using the company's average selling price, investors can guess how many chips that $1.1 billion represents. A rough estimate is that Micron could supply about 25 percent of the world's annual PC needs with the chips it has on hand. It produces an additional 70 million parts a month.
Micron may not have much of a business these days. But its stubbornly loyal investors are making sure that it remains one hell of a stock.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Against the Tide" shows Micron Technology's share prices this year. Friday: $41.53 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL COMPUTERS (91%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); COMPUTER MAKERS (90%); MICROTECHNOLOGY (90%); SEMICONDUCTORS (89%); MEMORY CHIPS (89%); ELECTRONICS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (77%); COMPANY LOSSES (70%); BONDS (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); MICROPROCESSORS (68%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; STOCKS AND BONDS; FINANCES 

COMPANY: MICRON TECHNOLOGY INC (58%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (58%); INTEL CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: MICRON TECHNOLOGY INC 

TICKER: MU (NASDAQ) (58%); TXN (NASDAQ) (58%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (58%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (58%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (58%) SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES; 

PERSON: MORGENSON, GRETCHEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHUA, NH, USA (53%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2001 



21 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 697 words

HEADLINE: Reckonings; 
The Levitating Dollar

BYLINE:  By PAUL KRUGMAN 

 BODY:
Everything about the American economy is down lately: manufacturing production, overall growth and, needless to say, stocks. 
 So why is the dollar still rising? At the beginning of last year, when everything seemed to be going right for the U.S. economy, the dollar was worth less than one euro, and only slightly more than 100 yen. Now everything has gone wrong -- but the euro is below 90 cents and a dollar buys 125 yen. 
 Actually, I'm not surprised by the dollar's rise against the yen. We're nervous, but Japan is desperate; and since any recovery strategy in Japan will involve printing lots of yen, it will almost surely drive the currency down even further. But the continuing strength of the dollar against the euro is puzzling. In fact, it's downright weird. 
Foreign exchange rates are, after all, determined by supply and demand. Americans supply dollars to the market when they seek to buy things foreign: goods like French wine, assets like shares in Nokia. Europeans demand dollars when they seek to buy things American: goods like Kansas wheat, assets like shares in Microsoft.
These days Americans spend a lot more on foreign goods than foreigners spend on American goods -- that is, we have a large trade deficit, the largest trade deficit in the history of the world. Still, the dollar's strength a year ago was no mystery: the trade deficit was outweighed by the determination of foreigners in general, and Europeans in particular, to acquire U.S. assets and get in on the great boom. European individuals were buying the Nasdaq, European corporations were buying U.S. companies. 
But who's buying dollars now? The tech bubble has burst; Daimler is choking on Chrysler; it's hard to imagine that either individual Europeans or their corporations still see America as the great land of opportunity. Yet somebody must be moving from euros to dollars.
At a recent academic conference I spoke to a German economist, Hans-Werner Sinn, who suggested the two best stories I've heard so far about the weak euro/strong dollar conundrum. Both stories depend on the peculiar status of the euro, which right now is only a virtual currency: there aren't yet any euro bills or coins in circulation. But in January the euros will arrive, and Europeans will start trading in their marks and lira for crisp new bills bearing pictures of bridges and monuments.
Mr. Sinn suggested that one group that may be moving from European currencies to dollars is criminals, Russian gangsters in particular. If you happen to have suitcases full of marks, and you don't care to explain where they came from, you probably don't want to walk up to a bank and exchange them for the new currency. Better to avoid accumulating marks and hoard dollars instead.
Innocent Eastern Europeans -- say, Polish farmers -- may also be shifting out of European currencies. Generations of bitter experience have taught them not to trust either governments or banks, and they may not be quite sure what this euro business is all about. Better to play it safe and stuff your mattress with a currency that isn't going through any changes.
I have no idea whether these offbeat stories can really explain what's happening. But they do suggest that the strength of the dollar and the weakness of the euro are temporary. In fact, you have to wonder why big speculators aren't shorting the dollar right now. Where are the George Soroses of yesteryear? Still, one of these days dollar holders may do a Wile E. Coyote: they will look down, realize that the currency has nothing to support it, and down it will plunge.
That wouldn't be a terrible thing: the weak euro has damaged European pride, but it has probably helped the European economy at a time when the European Central Bank has been stubbornly reluctant to cut interest rates. But then maybe the E.C.B. is inhibited by its belief that lower interest rates would weaken the euro.
And that may be the moral of our tale. It's a good bet that the era of the strong dollar will soon come to an end. That will be no tragedy; but it will be a problem if a falling dollar distracts the Federal Reserve from its duty, which is to ensure not a strong dollar but a strong economy. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); EURO (89%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (87%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); COINS & COINAGE (73%); BONDS (68%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CURRENCY; STOCKS AND BONDS; PRODUCTION 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (55%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (58%) KRUGMAN, PAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (94%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (54%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2001 



22 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: MONEY & MEDICINE; 
Big Pay at Not-So-Big Hospitals

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER STEINHAUER; Jennifer Steinhauer covers health care for The Times. Her column on the economics of health care appears the first Sunday of each month. E-mail: jestei@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
AT a time when hospital executives in cities around the country are crying poverty, it can gently be said that compensation figures are not declining.
 That is particularly true in New York City, home to dozens of large hospitals, where the compensation packages for executives tend to run higher than the national average. 
 In 1999, two of the nation's highest-paid hospital executives were in the city: Dr. John W. Rowe, president of Mount Sinai N.Y.U., who earned $1.3 million, and Dr. Paul A. Marks, who as president of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center earned $1.2 million. (Dr. Rowe is now head of Aetna, while Dr. Marks is retired.) Dr. Rowe's second in command, Barry R. Freedman, now the acting chief executive of Mount Sinai N.Y.U., earned more than $1 million that year. 
While hospitals have been forced to make a variety of cost cuts in recent years, executive pay has seemed immune. Among not-for-profit hospitals, the trend toward larger salaries hit its stride in 1998, when compensation packages for chiefs of nonprofit groups in general rose at nearly double the 5.7 percent rate of 1997, according to the Chronicle of Philanthropy. Among the highest paid were chiefs of hospitals. 
That is largely because these centers are increasingly competing with for-profit health care organizations, other industries and one another. Not-for-profit organizations do not have stock options to dangle, so direct compensation is used. "There is enormous competition between profit and not-for-profit hospitals," said James P. McElligott Jr., a lawyer in Richmond who specializes in health care law. "And managing a medical staff and dealing with all the challenges of H.M.O.'s, finding and keeping good physicians and nurses is a major challenge." 
Others pointed to cost-of-living issues. Len Hale, the president of Hale & Associates, a health care executive search firm in New Orleans, said the lowest-paid hospital chief executive whom he had placed received $120,000 a year. The highest-paid got $230,000, Mr. Hale said. 
The lowest-paid hospital president in New York City in 1999 was Allan Gibofsky of Long Island College Hospital in Brooklyn, who received $177,308, according to Internal Revenue Service records. 
"In many cases you have to pay for the location," Mr. Hale said. "I have many people tell me, 'I will go anywhere but New York City or L.A.' That is the reason they are paying such high salaries there." And, many experts say, the more beds in a hospital, the better a chief executive can usually expect to be paid. 
Cost-of-living variations may explain why the head of Memorial Sloan-Kettering (437 beds) made more than Dr. John Mendelsohn, president of the University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston (452 beds, $327,100). But that does not tell all the story. In 1998, the latest year for which figures were available, Miguel A. Fuentes Jr., the president of Bronx-Lebanon Hospital Center, earned $836,154. The hospital, with 589 beds, has no academic affiliation or area of lucrative specialty, yet Mr. Fuentes earned more than many of his counterparts in New York.
To live in the same style in Houston as one would in the Bronx, Mr. Fuentes would have to earn $615,134 a year, according to the Web site homefair .com, which does these calculations. By the same math, Dr. Samuel O. Thier, chief executive of Partners HealthCare System in Boston, should be making $1,367,892 a year, not the $648,000 he received for overseeing seven hospitals, four affiliated with Harvard Medical School, 3,172 beds in all. Are the men in Houston and Boston underpaid? Or does Mr. Fuentes make more than one might expect?
Officials of Bronx-Lebanon would not comment. But Mr. Hale pointed out that the hospital in the Bronx has 100 more beds than M.D. Anderson. "Does that justify twice the salary?" he said. "No. Do some executives have compensation that appears out of sight? Yes, but somebody wanted them more."
James A. Brickley, a business professor at the University of Rochester, said he found that among nonprofit hospitals, executives who produced the best financial returns received raises that were 8 percent higher than those on the bottom tiers. 
But how to measure that at a time when many hospitals are barely breaking even? "I would love to have 5 percent of what hospitals waste," said Mr. Hale, who worked for many years in health care.
Yet, as Mr. McElligott said, "clearly these are pricey packages, but to get good leaders you have to pay it."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (David G. Klein) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (91%); HOSPITALS (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CITIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); COST OF LIVING (78%); TRENDS (78%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (78%); CHARITIES (75%); HEALTH CARE LAW (73%); STOCK OPTIONS (64%); TAXES & TAXATION (63%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (63%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (61%); CANCER (55%) LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT 

ORGANIZATION: MEMORIAL SLOAN-KETTERING CANCER CENTER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2001 



23 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 681 words

HEADLINE: STRATEGIES; 
Yes, the Chief Can Own Too Much Stock in the Company

BYLINE:  By MARK HULBERT

 BODY:
MAE WEST used to say that too much of a good thing is wonderful.
 But she probably wasn't talking about executive compensation. A recent study by John E. Core and David F. Larcker, accounting professors at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, concludes that too much pay can be counterproductive. (The study, has not yet been published, though it is circulating as a working paper and can be found at http:// knowledge.wharton.upenn.edu/PDFs/ 857.pdf.) 
 On the one hand, the study substantiates the prevailing view that companies improve their performance if they include equity in executive compensation packages -- giving their chief executives incentives to make their companies do even better. But, on the other hand, the researchers also found that the point of diminishing returns is quickly reached -- and that companies whose chief executives own too much equity tend to be laggards.
Anyone who is familiar with how academics qualify their findings may be surprised that it is possible to reach such unambiguous conclusions -- especially in an area that presents as many difficulties as the relationship between corporate performance and executive compensation. 
But the two professors devised a solution that sidestepped many of those problems. They studied companies that increased, from low levels, the amount of equity they required their executives to own. By comparing the performance of those companies with comparable ones that did not increase their stock-ownership requirements, the professors could isolate the unique impact of executive compensation. The study focused on 195 companies between 1991 and 1996.
They found that companies that increased stock-ownership requirements performed significantly better. That was evident not only in the operating performance of the companies themselves, but also in stock prices.
But if some equity-based incentives improve corporate performance, why is it counterproductive to provide even more? 
The professors theorized that the answer had to do with the proportion of an executive's net worth that is represented by equity in the company. As that proportion grows too high, the executive becomes more conservative in the way he or she runs the company. In other words, elevated levels of stock ownership create incentives for executives to reduce their risk taking -- which may be just the opposite of what is good for the company as a whole.
The professors could not come up with absolute definitions of ownership levels that are too low, too high or just right. The answer is different for each company and each executive, because it depends on factors like the average compensation at comparable companies and the executive's total wealth. But Professor Larcker suggested to me that, as a general rule, equity ownership that is below the average among comparable companies is a negative signal for performance.
Helpful as that rule may be in judging executive compensation plans, other pay policies may be more important. A study by Professor Larcker and two other Wharton professors, Christopher Ittner and Richard A. Lambert, found that, at least among new-economy companies, equity ownership among middle-level managers could have an even greater impact on corporate performance than that by the chief executive. (This study, circulating as a working paper, is at http://knowledge.wharton.upenn.edu/ PDFs/1001.pdf.) The study focused on 217 new-economy companies in 1999 and 2000.
Consider those new-economy companies that pay middle-level managers at least 20 percent more in options, relative to their salaries, than comparable businesses do. The professors found that the stock prices of such companies rose 5 percent faster per year. The same outperformance was seen at new-economy companies that paid their technical personnel at least 20 percent more in options.
Although these increased returns may sound modest, they are statistically important because they represent the average experience of a large sample of companies. Executive compensation is worth looking at when considering a stock purchase.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "The Option Effect "A recent study of new-economy companies shows that the granting of stock options as a performance incentive can make a difference in a company's stock price, depending on who gets the options. Average change in stock price relative to peers if additional options are granted to: Chief executive: 0%Vice presidents: -1.3Directors: +0.3Managers: +4.9Contract personnel: -6.6Technical staff: +5.3Sales staff: +0.3 (Source: The Wharton School's analysis of data gathered by iQuantic Inc.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (92%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (77%); BONDS (68%) STOCKS AND BONDS; CORPORATIONS AND MANAGEMENT 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2001 



24 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2540 words

HEADLINE: Executive Pay: A Special Report; 
For the Boss, Happy Days Are Still Here

BYLINE:  By DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
FOR the last decade, the chief executives of America's large corporations have offered their investors an implicit bargain. The executives made their companies ever more profitable, helping to create one of history's greatest bull markets. As a reward, they paid themselves more handsomely than ever before.
 Some made $100 million in a given year. By the end of the 1990's, the average head of a big company took home more than $10 million before taxes. 
 Critics complained about income inequality, and some activist investors said that even mediocre managers were reaping windfalls. But the executives' rejoinder was always a strong one: we work for our shareholders, and they are getting rich right alongside us. 
Then, in 2000, sales slowed. Companies warned that profit forecasts were too optimistic. Stocks fell.
And the chief executives of many of the nation's biggest companies changed the terms of the deal. To make up for the hit their portfolios took when the market dropped, they convinced their boards to give them thousands of additional stock options. A few even received permission to change the exercise price on their stock options or to use an accounting maneuver to cancel an earlier exercise of options that, in hindsight, looked financially foolish. 
Other chieftains asked for more actual shares of stock, which -- unlike options -- have immediate value even in a bear market. Many executives also developed a newfound interest in dowdy old cash, winning moderate raises to their base salaries and huge increases in their bonuses and perks.
In short, the notion that corporate America pays its top managers based on their performance went the same way in 2000 as the idea that Internet stocks should be valued based on "page views." As a result, the fortunes of the people who run the nation's biggest companies and the people who own those companies -- the shareholders -- diverged sharply.
While typical investors lost 12 percent of their portfolios last year, based on the Wilshire 5000 total-market index, and profits for the Standard & Poor's 500 companies rose at less than half their pace in the 1990's, chief executives received an average 22 percent raise in salary and bonus.
The executives also received $1.7 million in stock, on average, up 14 percent from the previous year. And they were handed an average of $14.9 million worth of stock options, largely because they received almost 50 percent more options than in 1999, according to Executive Compensation Advisory Services, which conducted a survey of pay at 200 companies for Money & Business. 
The typical hourly worker received a 3 percent raise last year, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Salaried employees got about 4 percent more.
In total, the chief executives in the survey made an average of more than $20 million last year, including options, based on a widely used method for valuing them. The median pay package was $6.2 million.
"The risk is being taken out of executive compensation," said Judith Fischer, managing director of Executive Compensation Advisory Services. "You don't even have to make the performance goals. The board will pay you anyway."
Apple Computer gave its boss, Steven P. Jobs, a $90 million Gulfstream jet and 20 million stock options even as its shares fell 13 percent. Sprint's stock dropped 70 percent during the year, but it paid William T. Esrey $53 million in cash and stock, including 300,000 options he had not been scheduled to receive until this year. Coca-Cola gave M. Douglas Ivester, who resigned abruptly after a disappointing two-year tenure, an $18 million severance package. Then its board ignored a shareholder-approved bonus plan and gave the new chairman, Douglas N. Daft, a $3 million bonus although Coke missed its financial goals. In the process, the company lost its tax deduction on the bonus, since it was unrelated to performance.
"The guy's done a great job," said Herbert Allen, an investment banker in New York who is chairman of the compensation committee on Coke's board, echoing the most common rationale for last year's pay levels. Mr. Allen said Mr. Daft had inherited a difficult situation, quickly developed a plan to cut thousands of jobs, settled a racial discrimination lawsuit and improved Coke's relationship with bottlers and government officials. His pay, Mr. Allen added, "is probably directly in line with executives at other companies." 
Beyond the overall pay numbers, the details buried inside company proxies indicate just how successful chief executives were in negotiating with boards last year. The AmSouth Bancorporation paid C. Dowd Ritter $6.2 million for meeting its long-term goals -- and an additional $2.5 million to help cover the taxes.
On top of $140 million in cash and options, General Electric paid $1.3 million in life insurance premiums for John F. Welch Jr. The MBNA Corporation spent $213,000 for Alfred Lerner to use its corporate jet for personal trips. Dozens of companies paid their executives above-market interest rates on deferred compensation; John R. Stafford, for example, received an extra $745,000 from American Home Products.
THERE were also some odd perks. H & R Block reimbursed its boss, Frank L. Salizzoni, for the $3,021 he spent on having his taxes prepared -- and then it paid the taxes on the gift. In a severance deal for Dennis Jones, a former chief information officer, FedEx said it would give him "executive access" to Disney World and Disneyland. 
Certainly, many executives did see the value of their portfolios decline, and some technology entrepreneurs who were billionaires on paper a year ago are now mere millionaires. Across corporate America, millions of stock options are under water, with an exercise price above the shares' value -- leaving fewer executives able to cash out options they had received in previous years. During 2000, employees exercised only 10 percent of outstanding options, down from 23 percent in 1997, according to a study of 40 big companies by SCA Consulting in New York.
Some companies, like Oracle, gave their bosses big raises based on stock gains that have disappeared since the end of their fiscal year. These companies could end up lowering pay in 2001. For overall pay to drop, however, the pattern of 2000 -- when executives used the downturn as leverage to get cash payments and huge options grants -- would have to reverse, pay experts said.
"THE reality is, managers love it when a bull market is pulling everybody up," said Joseph J. Melone, the former chief executive of the Equitable Companies who serves on the boards of three public companies. "But in a down market, there's a concern that people aren't adequately compensated."
"There is a bit of a bias in the system that favors management," he added.
Black & Decker, whose stock price fell 25 percent in its fiscal year 2000, gave Nolan D. Archibald one million options, up from 200,000 in 1999. Lucent Technologies gave Richard A. McGinn, who has since been ousted, 3.4 million options, more than twice the number he received the previous year, although its shares dropped 81 percent. At Pitney Bowes, with the stock price in the midst of a 46 percent fall during 2000, the board accelerated its pay plan and gave top executives the options that they were due to receive in 2001 and 2002.
Even some compensation consultants who have defended the high pay of the 1990's as logical and fair say they are surprised by the packages last year. "I'm actually a little disappointed," said Ira T. Kay of Watson Wyatt Worldwide, the consulting firm, referring to the contrast between results and executive pay.
Shareholders generally allowed boards to make pay decisions in 2000, though murmurings of discontent were on the rise. Last year, at one out of every 20 companies, at least 40 percent of shareholders voted against their company's stock plan -- a level that indicates that the company had to work hard to have the plan approved, according to Strategic Compensation Research Associates in New York. 
Four years ago, one of out 35 companies faced such opposition. 
And why did boards continue to award such high pay? Compensation experts give two main reasons for the influence that executives continue to wield over directors charged with setting salaries in the best interests of shareholders.
Running a large company is simply more difficult than it once was. With new technology and fewer regulations, companies can quickly steal market share from one another. "One bad decision by a C.E.O. is a lot more costly than it used to be," said Robert Frank, an economist at Cornell University.
Boards have responded by paying executives lavishly -- and firing them more often than in the past. Even with the hiring competition from dot-com companies all but gone, after having dominated executive recruiting in 1998 and 1999, management experts say top jobs outnumber good candidates.
"I'm not aware of a board that is trying to make up the difference" between what executives were worth in 1999 and last year, said Warren Batts, a director at Sprint, Allstate and Sears, Roebuck. "What they're trying to do is retain the best and brightest of their management group."
The other reason should be obvious, though it is often overlooked: Most of the people who serve on corporate boards are themselves top executives, and most companies set pay scales by researching the competition and then aiming to pay executives at the 50th or 75th percentile of what similar companies pay.
As a result, directors have an incentive to award ever-rising paychecks. Often, they also owe their presence on the board to the chief executive. 
The chiefs, meanwhile, typically hire lawyers to negotiate on their behalf. "Oftentimes, boards get outnegotiated," said Alan Johnson, a pay consultant in New York who represents boards.
The coziness between the two sides continues even when the relationship sours and the board asks the executive to resign, management experts say. In the last year, Jill E. Barad received a $57 million severance package from Mattel, and Xerox gave G. Richard Thoman, who had been chief executive for 13 months, $800,000 a year for the rest of his life.
Steven E. Hall, a managing director at Pearl Meyer & Partners in New York who advises boards, says directors take the attitude that "it's not worth taking it out of the hide of another person like us." 
"It's all done in a very genteel manner," he added. "People at these levels are treated very differently."
NEVER was that more true than in 2000. In past years, executives have argued that they should continue to receive the same number of options even as their companies' share price increased, guaranteeing them bigger pay packages each year. But last year, as stocks fell, the executives changed their argument, saying they needed more options to make up for the market's downturn.
With all the new options being handed out -- 715,000 per chief executive last year, up from 476,000 in 1999 -- companies have now set aside the equivalent of 13.3 percent of their shares for employees, up from 13.1 percent a year ago, according to the Investor Responsibility Research Center. Companies do not have to account for the cost of stock options on their earnings statements, but options dilute the long-term value of a stock by leaving existing shareholders with a smaller portion of the company than they once owned.
In 2000, executives also began pushing boards to make so-called long-term incentive payments more often, said Ms. Fischer of Executive Compensation Advisory Services. In the past, companies set long-term targets once every three years and paid cash or stock afterward, based on achievement of those goals. Now, more companies are setting a new three-year target each year.
"It used to be that long term meant long term," Ms. Fischer said. 
The average estimated value of plans set up last year grew 49 percent, versus plans established in 1999. In other words, 2003 is already looking like a good year for executive pay.
Other companies decided that it was not enough to design new executives contracts to pay handsomely even in a tepid market. With some share prices down 50 percent or even much more, executives sought to rewrite the rules on their old contracts. Some simply repriced the options they granted in years past. 
Others were more creative. A small number of companies -- including Cysive, a software company -- erased history by canceling options exercises that some employees had made. The stock had dropped sharply after the transactions, but executives still faced taxes, based on the difference between the exercise price and the stock price at the time. So companies took back their stock and returned the options to executives, as if the deal had never happened, said David M. Leach, a pay expert at Buck Consultants.
Still other companies ripped up loan agreements. Compaq Computer said it would forgive a $5 million loan it had made to its chief executive, Michael Capellas, in 1999 so that he could buy Compaq stock then. When Mr. Capellas bought the shares, after becoming chief executive, they were trading at $23. At the end of 2000, they closed at $15.05.
The company also gave Mr. Capellas a "special one-time bonus" of $300,000 in June and another "special one-time bonus" of $850,000 in October, as well as a $2.5 million loan to pay the taxes for the forgiven loan.
A spokesman for Compaq said the bonuses were a reward for the company's revenue gains and cost reductions, as well as Mr. Capellas's promotion to chairman. The forgiving of the loan will take effect over three years, encouraging Mr. Capellas to stay at Compaq, the spokesman said.
But amid the unquestioning generosity that swept through boardrooms in 2000, there were exceptions. General Cable, a 150-year-old manufacturer based in Highland Heights, Ky., also loaned its top executives millions of dollars a couple of years ago. Since then, its stock has fallen about one-third, to less than $11, and executives have grown "obviously concerned" about their debt, said Stephen Rabinowitz, the chief executive.
So will General Cable forgive the loans? Absolutely not, Mr. Rabinowitz said. "I'm firmly of the view that a deal's a deal," he said. "We all knew there was some risk."
Other boards decided not to pay chief executives the maximum possible bonuses when their companies missed certain goals. A few, like Airborne, Navistar International and Paccar, paid no bonus at all. 
And Schering-Plough reduced the pay of Richard Jay Kogan by $300,000, because two of the company's manufacturing plants failed inspections by the Food and Drug Administration. Of course, 2000 was still not a bad year for Mr. Kogan. Altogether, Schering-Plough gave him a $2.5 million raise, paying him $22 million in cash, stock and options and leaving him slightly better off than the average chief executive of a large company in 2000.

They Can Bank on It
Last year, these were among the best-paid executives.

STEVEN P. JOBS
Apple Computer: $775.0 million

SANFORD I. WEILL
Citigroup: $315.1 million

LAWRENCE J. ELLISON
Oracle: $216.4 million

L. DENNIS KOZLOWSKI
Tyco International: $205.2 million

JOHN F. WELCH JR.
General Electric: $144.5 million

The full list of 200 executives is on Pages 10 and 11.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Coca-Cola missed its financial goals, but the board thought so highly of its new chairman, Douglas N. Daft, that it gave him a $3 million bonus. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times); Despite their stocks' slides, Richard A. McGinn, left, formerly of Lucent, and Sprint's William T. Esrey got millions in cash and options. (Photographs by the Associated Press)(pg. 8); (pg. 1) Table -- "Executive Pay: A Special Report" shows figures for executive pay raises, compensation, and accumulated wealth by company and job title. (pgs. 10,11) Chart: "Top Dogs"Change in cash payments last year. HOURLY WORKERS: +3.0%SALARIED WORKERS: +4.3%CHIEF EXECUTIVES: +22.0% (Sources: Bureau of Labor Statistics; Hewitt Associates; Executive Compensation Advisory Services)(pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Special Report 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK OPTIONS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BONUS PAY (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (75%); SHAREHOLDERS (74%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); TRENDS (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); STATISTICS (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (69%); SALARY SURVEYS (69%); INTERNET & WWW (63%) LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT; CORPORATIONS AND MANAGEMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2001 



25 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 502 words

HEADLINE: Executive Pay: A Special Report; 
New Turn on an Old Favorite

BYLINE:  By DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
ASK the people who design executive pay packages what the plans' biggest weakness is, and the response approaches unanimity. Stock options, consultants and directors say, enrich mediocre managers when stocks are rising but fail to reward even successful executives in a bear market.
 Yet largely because of an accounting rule, most executive pay -- almost 75 percent last year -- comes in stock options, which recipients came to love during the long bull market. "We pay out billions and billions of dollars on a very rickety foundation," said Alan M. Johnson, the president of Johnson Associates, a pay consulting firm in New York. 
 One company set out to strengthen that foundation in 2000. The RCN Corporation, a three-year-old telecommunications company based in Princeton, N.J., began paying its top executives in something it called "outperform stock options." If the company's shares rise but still do worse than the Standard & Poor 500-stock index, RCN's executives cannot exercise their options. But if the stock appreciates faster than the index, the executives can make more money than they otherwise would have -- because a multiplier kicks in to increase the options' value.
"It ensures that management does not benefit from a rising tide that lifts all boats," said Tim Stoklosa, RCN's chief financial officer. To give the plan added bite, the company said that regardless of what the S.& P. 500 does, RCN's stock must rise to $38.125 -- from the grant-date price of $23.38 -- before executives can exercise any options. On Friday, RCN's stock closed at $6.03.
The company modeled its plan after one at Level 3 Communications, RCN's largest shareholder. But few analysts expect the practice to be widely embraced by American corporations because of the accounting pain involved.
When a company awards regular stock options, it does not have to report any cost on its earnings statements. An accounting rule issued in 1972 says that the cost of an option is the difference between the exercise price and the stock price on the day of the grant -- which is always zero for normal options. However, because the exercise price of RCN's options is not set until a later date, the Financial Accounting Standards Board requires the company to take a charge to reported earnings. This year, RCN's charge will be close to $50 million, Mr. Stoklosa said.
Pay consultants say there is no rationale for the different accounting methods.
"All options have a cost," said Russell Miller, a partner at SCA Consultants in New York -- they dilute ownership. But, he added, "only some show up on the income statement."
IN the 1990's, many executives who became wealthy because of stock options lobbied to prevent the accounting board from changing the rules. They do not want regular stock options to cause an accounting charge.
But, without such a change, the stock market's tide -- be it rising or falling -- will continue to have as much of an effect on most option values as a company's performance does. DAVID LEONHARDT

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Raising the Bar"With ordinary stock options granted to top executives, it is usually a matter of time before they are in the money. Here is an example of how RCN could make it harder for executives to cash in. THE GRANTAt the beginning of the year, an executive receives stock options, with a $40 strike price. THE STICK . . .The executive could exercise a normal option when the stock rises above $40. With an indexed option, the stock must post a better return than a group of other stocks. RCN uses the S.& P. 500 index as its benchmark. So if the share rises to $44 -- a 10 percent gain -- but the S.& P. 500 posts a better gain, the option is worthless. . . . THE CARROTIf the overall market is down, the executive can sometimes exercise the options as long as the company's stock does better than the benchmark stocks. RCN also sets a minimum price for the shares, at which the options become exercisable. THE REWARDFor each penny by which the stock beats the index, the executive can earn additional money because of a multiplier on the option. RCN would not disclose its multiplier.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Special Report 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (97%); STOCK OPTIONS (92%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (92%); WAGES & SALARIES (92%); CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); ACCOUNTING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (86%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); BONDS (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (69%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (67%) STOCKS AND BONDS; LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT 

COMPANY: RCN CORP (70%); LEVEL 3 COMMUNICATIONS INC (53%)

TICKER: LVLT (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (70%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (70%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (70%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (70%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (70%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (70%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (53%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (76%); NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2001 



26 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1215 words

HEADLINE: The Nation; 
One Political Constant

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL KAZIN; Michael Kazin, a professor of history at Georgetown University, is the author of "The Populist Persuasion."

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
THE specter of the Gilded Age haunts the current debate over campaign finance reform. Advocates of banning "soft money" want to curb the power of special interests over politics, which they trace back to the benighted era from the 1870's to the end of the 19th century, when big business spent huge sums to gain sway over elections and policy-making. "There are two things that are important in politics," explained Mark Hanna, the wealthy Republican strategist of the Gilded Age whom cartoonists depicted in a tight suit checkered with dollar signs and a diamond stickpin in his cravat. "The first is money, and I can't remember what the second one is." 
 The first serious attempt to rein in plutocratic politics came in 1907, when Congress banned direct corporate donations to candidates. But that restriction was easy for fund-raisers and attorneys to circumvent and de-fang. If contemporary reformers hope to be more successful, they might reflect on the ways big money shaped political life a century ago and why their predecessors failed. 
 Not until the last years of the 19th century did big corporations and their rich directors acquire the habit of putting their money where their interests lay. Previously, party stalwarts paid the bulk of campaign costs, particularly for local offices. When Tammany Hall controlled New York City in the 1880's, the machine levied a tax of about 6 percent on municipal job-holders; candidates for mayor had to kick in at least $25,000 to finance their own races, or about $400,000 in today's money. But as the size and power of the federal government grew, industrialists stepped in, hoping to head off any restrictions on their power and profits.
Both Democrats and Republicans went begging for large donations from people with names like Rockefeller, Carnegie, Frick and Harriman. During the 1888 presidential campaign, the Republican Party boss of Pennsylvania, Matthew Quay, raised more than $3 million from steelmakers and oil producers fearful that a Democratic president and Congress would cut the steep tariffs that protected their firms from foreign competition. Quay's candidate, Benjamin Harrison, won, and soon approved a new law that increased duties on most goods.
As a result, by 1892, many corporate titans had grown blase about the prospect of a Democratic president. That year, Grover Cleveland sailed into the White House with the help of $100,000 from sugar manufacturers and sizeable amounts of cash from the Northern Pacific Railroad and Macy's department store. These were tremendous sums at a time when a well-paid worker was paid roughly $3 a day and the annual revenue of the federal government was a mere $355 million. After the votes were counted, the magnate Henry Clay Frick wrote to his partner, Andrew Carnegie, "I am very sorry for President Harrison, but I cannot see that our interests are going to be affected one way or the other by the change in administration."
But the prospect of a president named William Jennings Bryan was different. In 1896, Bryan's vow to help debtors by inflating the money supply and his jabs at "those who have been living on what other people have earned" enabled Mark Hanna to dun corporate friends for almost any sum the Republican campaign for William McKinley needed.
NO one was then required to divulge the source or amount of campaign funds. But key Republican officials reported spending at least $4 million, about 10 times what Bryan and the Democrats could muster. One day that fall, Hanna handed an aide an envelope containing 50 $1,000 bills from a railroad company's coffers. Another day, the president of a Philadelphia bank gave $25,000, saying, "We have never before contributed a cent to politics, but the present crisis we believe to be as important as the Civil war." With these funds, the Republicans distributed more than 250 million flyers and pamphlets, hired thousands of speakers, and staged parades in nearly every big city. After the race, Theodore Roosevelt quipped that Hanna had sold McKinley "as if he were a patent medicine."
How much influence all this corporate largesse bought is not clear. Then as now, politicians sought to bring prosperity to their districts and regions, and most were careful not to alienate large employers and investors. Organized labor, for its part, had neither the cash nor the political unity to compete. The American Federation of Labor first endorsed a presidential candidate in 1908, when Bryan made his third run. But A.F.L. President Samuel Gompers managed to raise less than $10,000 for the effort. 
Yet, the beneficiaries of the big money still had to assuage their humbler constituents, many of whom resented the flaunting of wealth and the concentration of economic might. In the 1880's, Senator John Sherman of Ohio accepted donations from John D. Rockefeller and then wrote an antitrust act in 1890 that provided the legal basis for the eventual break up of Standard Oil. Wall Street executives financed Theodore Roosevelt's race for governor of New York in 1898 and were shocked when, safely in office, T.R. called for a tax on corporations. "I have no command of the English language that enables me to express my feelings regarding Mr. Roosevelt," said the oilman Henry M. Flagler.
By the time Roosevelt was elected president, in 1904, the widespread hostility against big business (broadly, if imprecisely, labeled "the trusts") had fueled various attempts to regulate the financing of campaigns. In addition to the ban on corporate giving, nearly all Democrats and many Republicans backed a bill to publicize the names of contributors and the extent of their generosity. Yet few Progressives worked to assure such measures were enforced. When Bryan promoted the public financing of elections in the 1920's, few followed his lead.
This reluctance was due more to the worldview of reformers than a weakness of political will. Most Progressives did not think you could purify politics while leaving the structure of the economy alone. Senator John McCain of Arizona gets outraged at the parties for taking soft money from big firms but is silent about the market power of companies and their treatment of workers. In contrast, earlier reformers questioned every aspect of the looming incorporation of American industry. Some modernizers, like T.R., favored regulations to force big businesses to operate more efficiently and to serve the interests of wage earners and consumers. Others of a more populist bent, such as Bryan, sought to destroy "monopolies" and preserve the more human-scale economy they feared was passing into history.
BUT all manner of Progressives agreed that government should aid movements of aroused citizens challenging the sway of "trusts" over American society. That was the motivation behind new laws providing for factory inspections, an eight-hour day, the expansion of national parks and a variety of other measures that increased federal authority as a countervailing force to private power.
Reformers a century ago believed that the corporate funding of campaigns was simply one aspect of a bigger problem. Their present-day counterparts may come to agree with that if cutting off the flood of soft money just opens new loopholes for people with cash to spare and influence to gain.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mark Hanna (The New York Times) Drawing: "Wall Street's New Guardian": Hanna by Homer Davenport, 1899.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGN FINANCE (92%); POLITICS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (85%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CORPORATE GIVING (78%); MAYORS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); FUNDRAISING (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); LAWYERS (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (70%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (68%); SUGAR MFG (61%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (61%); RETAILERS (60%); APPROVALS (50%) ELECTIONS; FINANCES; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

PERSON: KAZIN, MICHAEL (PROF); HANNA, MARK 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2001 



27 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 982 words

HEADLINE: The Nation: Weird Economics; 
To Save Or Spend?

BYLINE:  By ALEX BERENSON 

 BODY:
AMERICANS need to save more money. The nation's meager savings rate drives up interest rates, discouraging businesses from investing and hurting the United States economy.
 That sounds reasonable. 
 Americans save enough already. Consumer spending drives the economy. Money that is saved is not being spent. At a time when economic growth is slowing, an increase in the savings rate could be disastrous. 
O.K., so which is it?
Economics is a science. Like physics or chemistry, it is bound by ironclad rules: printing money causes inflation; higher prices cause demand to fall.
That's very reassuring, but you didn't answer my first question.
Economics pretends to be a science. Its practitioners fill blackboards with equations and clog computers with data. But it is really a faith, or more accurately a set of overlapping and squabbling faiths, each with its own doctrines.
Thanks. Now I really don't know what to think.
For two decades, a soaring stock market has fanned Americans' appetite for economic news and analysis. But, amid the profusion of contradictory advice, sometimes it seems as if economic theory has no underlying logic at all.
Actually, it's not that bad. Let's start with the basics, and please, try not to doze off: 
Economics has two major branches.
Microeconomics is the study of how specific choices made by businesses, consumers and governments affect the markets for different goods and services. For example, a microeconomist might examine how price changes affect sales of apples relative to oranges.
Macroeconomics is the analysis of the economy as a whole, an examination of overall supply and demand. At the broadest level, macroeconomists want to understand why some countries grow faster than others and which government policies can help growth.
The difference between microeconomics and macroeconomics is a bit like the difference between biology and medicine. Knowing that certain genes increase the risk of cancer is relatively easy. Figuring out exactly which people will get sick, or how to cure them, is a lot more complicated.
A lot of microeconomics is reasonably well understood. Take prices. A price represents the intersection of supply and demand for a given good. If demand for the good rises or its supply shrinks, its price will rise. How much it rises depends on how much consumers need the good and whether they can easily substitute other goods for it. If 90 percent of the world's apple crop disappeared tomorrow, apples would rise in price, but less than you might imagine, because other fruits make reasonable substitutes. But if 30 percent of the world's oil disappeared, oil's price would probably soar, since oil is vital to many industries and there are few good substitutes for it.
But many of the economic questions that policy makers most care about are macro, not micro: Is there a level of government spending that is optimal for economic growth? What tax system works best? And many of these macro questions have no clear answers.
In part, that's because economies are so huge and complex that isolating the effects of just one change is impossible. Sure, cutting taxes helps to boost economic growth by putting more money in consumers' pockets and encouraging people to work harder, since they will take home more pay. But what if the government cuts taxes and not spending? Then deficits will rise, leading to higher interest rates, as the government competes with private businesses for capital. High rates hurt business investment, and any cutback in business spending might easily outweigh the positive effects of lower taxes.
Figuring which of these forces is more important means guessing the relative weights of dozens of variables. And because there is only one petri dish -- the United States economy -- macroeconomists can't run real-world experiments with different approaches. They can only speculate.
Under these circumstances, predicting the impact of President Bush's tax cuts is a matter of ideology as much as economics. It is not that economists don't understand the effects that cuts will have. It's just that they can't be certain whether the positive effects will outweigh the negatives, or vice-versa.
The same trap reappears in other macroeconomic debates, even those that are less ideologically polarizing.
Take the question of whether Americans save enough money. For many years, economists believed that Japan's high consumer savings rate gave it a crucial edge over the United States by providing Japanese banks with a vast pool of capital that they could lend to businesses at low interest rates.
But in the last decade, Japan has stagnated, while America has soared. The Internet and information technology have made the United States such an attractive place to invest that domestic businesses have had no problem attracting capital from investors all over the world. Meanwhile, Japanese banks, which face a huge overhang of bad loans, have been slow to make new ones, and even when the banks make money available, Japanese businesses have had a tough time finding profitable places to invest.
Still, most economists think the United States would be better off if Americans gradually increased their savings so businesses here don't depend so much on foreign investment.
"Savings are really good in the long run," said Jeremy Siegel, finance professor at the University of Pennsylvania. But Mr. Siegel said that in the short run, consumers, who account for about two-thirds of all economic activity, need to keep spending to prop up the economy at a time when businesses are sharply cutting back on their investment.
"Any increase in savings by consumers right now could be enough to tip our economy into recession," he said. Thus the apparently contradictory advice -- spend more now, but less later -- turns out to make a certain amount of sense. Just don't ask Mr. Siegel exactly how much to save, or when to start.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Start your wallets: propping up the American economy at a Costco store in Brooklyn. (Jeffery A. Salter/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); APPLE ORCHARDS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (72%); RELIGION (69%); CANCER (62%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

PERSON: BERENSON, ALEX 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2001 



28 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1210 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends; 
Trolling for Brains in International Waters

BYLINE:  By JAMES GLANZ 

 BODY:
THE world is a global marketplace. Money flows like water across national borders, creating a perpetual motion machine of investment, development and wealth creation. Theoretically, it is a system in which everybody wins. 
 The global market for knowledge and expertise, by contrast, has developed far less rapidly, and thus far has produced only one big winner: the United States. Information technology (I.T.) generates about a third of the economic growth in this country with just five million workers, said Dr. B. Lindsay Lowell, director of research at Georgetown University's Institute for the Study of International Migration. And over one million of those people are foreign born. 
 But America is beginning to lose its monopoly on the world's best brains. From Ireland to India, South Korea to South Africa, and Australia to Albania, said Dr. Allan Findlay, a geographer and the director of the Centre for Applied Population Research at the University of Dundee in Scotland, resources are being poured into retaining native talent. 
Australia, for example, recently announced a $2 billion package of research grants, tax breaks and new education funding to attract and retain technical talent. Japan has budgeted billions of dollars to increase I.T. development and retain workers across Asia. And Taiwan, by expanding the scope of its graduate science programs and emphasizing the country's growing high-technology industry, has lured back some 50,000 scientists who had left the country over the last two decades, according to Dr. Tzu-Feng Marlene Lin at the National Science Council in Taipei.
Scientific knowledge and technical skill have become so essential to the economic future of nations that the migration of skilled workers has come under intense scrutiny. Transilience, which means to leap across, is now used to describe what Dr. Lowell calls "brain currents," the movement of educated individuals, like a new form of currency, around the globe.
In the competition for the best and brightest, the cost to the losers can be devastating. For example, a study by the Colombian government estimated that the nation lost tens of thousands of people with three years or more of higher education in 1999 alone, said Jean-Baptiste Meyer, a senior researcher at the Institut de Recherche pour le Developpement in Paris.
Dr. Meyer added that losses of the most highly skilled people from Colombia and South Africa, which he has also studied, are accelerating as international head-hunting companies have become active there.
"These countries are thus under tremendous pressures on their skilled populations," Mr. Meyer wrote in an e-mail message from Colombia. The same is also true of India and Asia, where local job markets often can absorb only a fraction of the scientists and engineers produced every year.
Rather than fight transilience, a number of countries are trying to benefit from it by keeping their borders open to technically advanced workers. In the short term, this may encourage scientists to leave their native lands for the United States or Europe, but they may return later, with extensive professional networks and far greater experience than they would have had otherwise.
Take India, which may have the world's largest diaspora of scientists. IndUS Entrepreneurs, a group whose members include the leading Indian software engineers in Silicon Valley, estimates that 30 percent of the software engineers there are of Indian origin. And AnnaLee Saxenian, an economist at Berkeley, has used a Dun & Bradstreet database to count 750 Silicon Valley companies run by Indians. 
ON the other side of the ledger, though, India itself appears to have benefited enormously from its far-flung citizens. The worth of India's information-technology exports has catapulted, to $4 billion in 2000, from just $150 million in 1990. And the Indian government projects that by 2008 that number will be $85 billion.
"The fact that all these Indians are here is enabling massive changes which are beneficial to India, and also beneficial to the U.S.," said Dr. Jagdish Bhagwati, an economist at Columbia University, who is a special advisor to the United Nations on globalization.
Sheer wealth and unmatched research infrastructure continue to make the United States the Mecca of scientists and engineers. Data from the National Science Foundation show that, except for a brief dip mid-decade, students from the top exporters of talent in Asia enrolled in American graduate programs in increasing numbers during the 1990's. Last year, some 75,000 were here from China and India alone. The most recent figures also show there are about 20,000 students here at any given time from the three largest European exporters, Germany, Britain and France. 
"Yes, yes, you are seen by us as a kind of vacuum cleaner or something," said Dr. Dominique Martin-Rovet, the Washington representative of France's Centre National de Recherche Scientifique.
But the growing global effort to retain highly educated workers may begin to level the playing field. The number of graduate students here from Taiwan, which has changed its research institutions to retain native-born talent, has fallen by 40 percent since 1995. And a recent National Science Foundation study concluded that China, South Korea, Japan, Mexico, Chile, Argentina and other developing countries are also undertaking structural changes to attract students and young scientists.
Research spending in Ireland has reportedly soared from a few million dollars to more than half-a-billion dollars in the past three years, and the University of Limerick recently announced plans to attract two dozen world-class researchers to new positions. Germany is overhauling its entire university system, in part to make it more attractive to young researchers and engineers.
AS the market for brains tightens, the United States could come to regret its reliance on foreign talent at the expense of educating its native born, said Dr. Lowell of Georgetown.
"In the short to medium term, the U.S. makes out like a bandit," he said. "In the medium to long term, the outlook is questionable, even for the U.S."
The first challenge the country will face, he said, is the impossibility of granting permanent citizenship to the vastly expanded pool of high-tech workers being granted temporary visas, following new rules enacted by Congress this year. "We can easily project a greater demand than current visas are available," Dr. Lowell said.
Assuming that those human and bureaucratic stresses can be handled, he said, the country will still have to deal with the slowing of wage growth in I.T. that an increase of temporary workers will almost certainly bring. If historical parallels hold up, lower wages will discourage women and minorities from seeking training in these fields, increasing the country's reliance on foreign talent even further, he said.
"Cheap labor puts off the day of reckoning for employers," Dr. Lowell said.
As the global competition for the world's most precious commodity heats up, the United States could come to regret its neglect of native-born minorities and the educational system that develops their talent and provides them with skills. America may learn the definition of transilience the hard way.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A technologist and the low-cost computer he is developing, with government funds, at Brazil's Federal University of Minas Gerais. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); TRENDS (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); SCIENCE FUNDING (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); GRANTS & GIFTS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (75%); ECONOMIC MIGRATION (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (73%); CURRENCIES (71%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (70%); GEOGRAPHY (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%) LABOR; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FOREIGN LABOR 

ORGANIZATION: GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (57%)

PERSON: GLANZ, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); COLOMBIA (93%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); ASIA (92%); INDIA (92%); TAIWAN (79%); FRANCE (79%); BRAZIL (79%); SCOTLAND (79%); ALBANIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2001 



29 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 3; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 289 words

HEADLINE: March 25-31; 
A Killer Economy

BYLINE:  By ALAN COWELL

 BODY:
While mad cow disease is feared largely because infected meat might give humans a fatal brain-destroying illness, no such threat has ever been associated with foot-and-mouth disease. It is, instead, a completely economic plague. 
 The disease has only rarely been detected in humans. But in animals like cows, pigs and sheep, it causes blisters in the mouth and feet, making it painful for them to eat or walk. In the worst cases, the hooves can fall off. In young animals, the disease can be fatal. While most adult animals recover from the blisters in weeks, it can take livestock months to regain lost weight, and cows rarely produce the same amount of milk. And animals infected with the virus cannot be legally exported. 
 The virus can spread on the wind, in water and infected fodder, on exhaled animal breath and on humans' shoes or clothing. In less than six weeks, the disease spread from a single British piggery to over 750 farms and upward of 764,000 animals. Britain has performed mass slaughters and burned or buried carcasses to break the chain of infection, but the virus has moved into Ireland, France and the Netherlands. The United States has halted the importation of meat and meat products from the European Union and placed airports and other points of entry on heightened alert. 
But regions that do not export meat tend to take the disease in stride. In Hong Kong -- where, as in mainland China and Taiwan, foot-and-mouth is deeply rooted -- no animals have been slaughtered, no restrictions have been placed on the sale of meat and there is no ban on importing meat or dairy products from other countries with the disease, though at least 574 pigs have died of foot-and- mouth since April 2000. ALAN COWELL

GRAPHIC: Photo: Foot and mouth disease endangers the profitability of livestock. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIVESTOCK DISEASE (91%); FOOT & MOUTH DISEASE (90%); MEAT EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); DENTAL MOUTH & JAW DISORDERS (90%); BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY (90%); ANIMALS (90%); MEATS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (88%); IMPORT TRADE (88%); MEAT PROCESSING & PRODUCTS (78%); HOG & PIG FARMING (77%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); EUROPEAN UNION (67%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (58%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HONG KONG (79%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (77%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (69%); NETHERLANDS (53%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2001 



30 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1032 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends; 
Two Crises: Cows and Current

BYLINE:  By JOHN MICKLETHWAIT; John Micklethwait, the United States editor of The Economist, is the co-author of "A Future Perfect: The Challenge and Hidden Promise of Globalization."

DATELINE: LAGUNA NIGUEL, Calif. 

 BODY:
CUMBRIA and Orange County belong to very different worlds. But the fells of northern Britain and the sprawl of Southern California are now both digesting yet more bad news. In Britain, despite the pyres of burning sheep and cattle, foot-and-mouth disease is now set to jump tenfold. This week Californians discovered the harshest consequence yet of their energy crisis: an immediate rise in electricity prices by as much as 50 percent.
 Foot-and-mouth is a far more gruesome tragedy. On the other hand, California's electricity crisis may be both more expensive and more prolonged. Yet the reactions to the disasters in Britain and California have been strikingly similar. 
 There has been anger, to be sure, but, so far, it has been strangely dissipated. Given the failure of either government to deal with the crisis, heads might have been expected to fall. Instead, the people in charge -- Prime Minister Tony Blair and Governor Gray Davis -- have suffered relatively little politically so far. 
This is partly to do with the complexity of the issues. Foot-and-mouth is no easier to explain than electricity deregulation. Without obvious culprits, the media, particularly television news, often jumped to more straightforward stories -- the chances of a general election in Britain, the decline of Nasdaq, and (inevitably) the worldwide debate about Bjork's dress sense.
But complexity alone does not explain the muted anger. There has also been a marked degree of separation, a sense of distance from the pain. In Britain, farming accounts for only about one in a hundred jobs -- something disgruntled Londoners are quick to point out. For all his empathizing with the farmers, Mr. Blair will probably call a general election in May -- something The Sun, Britain's biggest tabloid, supports.
In California, consumers have had even longer to get used to the crisis (the problems with power emerged last year). The Public Utility Commission is also inflicting the price rises mainly on businesses rather than homes; many consumers will only suffer indirectly. 
The prevailing emotion among both Britons and Californians seems to be resignation: "We had it coming," one Hollywood executive explained, using the same words heard often in London. In many cases, this is linked to a suspicion that people are paying the price for unfettered capitalism. What on earth, Britons ask, was a farm in Northumberland doing feeding Asian meat to their pigs? In California, deregulation is often blamed for the energy crisis.
Whether this detached fatalism is realistic is another matter. It is already clear in Britain that foot-and-mouth is about far more than just farming. The much bigger tourism industry stands to lose $1.5 billion to $5 billion this year -- twice as much as the farmers. The deathly quiet that has fallen on many of the more beautiful parts of Britain has been caused not only by the much-cited "silence of the lambs," but also by the silence of American tour buses and holidaying German cyclists.
In California, electricity may be an old industry, but it is the lifeblood of the new economy. Price rises and, particularly, power cuts threaten not just Silicon Valley, but also California's core competence -- persuading ambitious people from all over the world to come to the state. Indian programmers will not flock to work in a hot place where the air-conditioning keeps breaking down. They can get that in Bangalore.
Another reason to be relatively pessimistic about California is that its crisis will last longer. The acrid smoke drifting across Wordsworth country may be grimly apocalyptic; but by the end of this summer, Britain should have killed or vaccinated enough animals to get rid of the disease. By contrast, the imbalance between the demand and supply of energy in California may not be fixed until 2003. And there is already talk that last week's price rise will not be enough to cover the state's bills.
Meanwhile, the deeper arguments about unfettered capitalism seem far from finished. People throughout Europe, already angry about mad cow disease (which unlike foot-and-mouth is dangerous to humans), call for more barriers against food imports, and more rules for agribusiness. Consolidation in the slaughterhouse industry helped spread foot-and-mouth, forcing infected animals to be driven around the country. 
Economic liberals reply that farming is the most protected and regulated industry in Britain (as it is everywhere in the Western world). The disease may have been partly spread by farmers' "bed-and-breakfasting" sheep, selling animals on a short-term basis just to claim subsidies.
Neither side seems ready to admit that bad luck played a role. Foot-and-mouth is, literally, a disease that can blow in from anywhere: it is carried by the wind. The route by which infected Asian meat found its way to a restaurant in northern England and was then fed as leftovers to pigs was a haphazard affair few could have predicted.
While foot-and-mouth might be excused as an act of God, California's electricity mess is man-made. But by whom? President Bush has jumped at the chance to imply that environmental regulators have held back the energy industry. Governor Davis, who clearly still hopes to enter the Democratic primaries in 2004, attacks greedy out-of-state power providers.
EVEN when you reach the heart of the problem, the state's regulatory system, another smog descends. Many on the left blame liberalization. Free-marketers reply that "deregulation" in the mid-1990's does not deserve that label. The state protected its incumbent suppliers, making it difficult for competitors to get into the market. It imposed rules that seem downright Soviet -- rate freezes that oblige suppliers to sell power at a small fraction of the price they pay for it.
The bigger, more complicated arguments about the cause of the crises may recede into the background as long as most Californians and Britons continue to grin and bear it. If, on the other hand, frustrations, perhaps heightened by gloomier economic news, begin to boil to the surface, the politics could change dramatically. That will be the test of the coming long hot summers in both Britain and California.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sheep roaming free in northern England are threatened by foot-and-mouth disease. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOT & MOUTH DISEASE (90%); DENTAL MOUTH & JAW DISORDERS (90%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); TRENDS (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (78%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (77%); ENERGY REGULATION (76%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (76%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); UTILITY RESTRUCTURING (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (68%); TOURISM (50%) ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; LIVESTOCK; FOOT-AND-MOUTH DISEASE 

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (58%) MICKLETHWAIT, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); ENGLAND (79%) CALIFORNIA; GREAT BRITAIN

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2001 



31 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 842 words

HEADLINE: The World; 
Milosevic Is Accused, but All of Serbia Is on Trial

BYLINE:  By BLAINE HARDEN 

 BODY:
THE moves by Serb officials to arrest Slobodan Milosevic late last week appear to be an effort to meet Yugoslavia's most pressing need.
 The erstwhile Serb strongman was cornered by the authorities in time to meet a deadline imposed by the United States. This keeps war-ruined Yugoslavia on track to rejoin the world as a respectable democracy. It also seems likely to unlock access to $50 million in American aid, as well as hundreds of millions of dollars in loans from the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. 
 But what will the government of Vojislav Kostunica do with Mr. Milosevic, a demagogue who arguably is responsible for more death, war and mayhem in Europe than anyone since Hitler?
How that question is answered could go a long way in determining whether Serbs come to grips with the barbaric crimes, including mass murder, that were committed in their name in Kosovo, Croatia and, especially, in Bosnia.
The international community knows what it wants. In May 1999, the International War Crimes Tribunal in The Hague indicted Mr. Milosevic in connection with atrocities in Kosovo. On Friday, after hearing news of efforts to arrest him, the tribunal repeated its position that Yugoslavia has an obligation under international law to turn over Mr. Milosevic and to do it quickly.
The Bush administration has not insisted that he be transferred immediately, but it has said that it expects Yugoslavia to "ultimately cooperate." 
Yet inside Serbia, the dominant republic in what remains of the Yugoslav federation that Mr. Milosevic did so much to destroy, the question is far more complicated.
Mr. Kostunica, who came to power last October after a popular revolt forced Mr. Milosevic to step down, is both a Serb nationalist and a thoughtful constitutional lawyer. The nationalist side of Mr. Kostunica, which was a key to his attracting the votes needed to defeat Mr. Milosevic in an election last fall, has balked at being bossed around by the United States and the international community. He has criticized the Hague tribunal as being biased against Serbia.
The thoughtful lawyer, however, has conceded that cooperation with The Hague is in the long-term interests of his country. The economy of Yugoslavia was all but destroyed during Milosevic's reign. The country became an international pariah, its educated elite fled and NATO bombs dropped during the Kosovo war destroyed factories and infrastructure. Many officials in the new government have said that sheltering Milosevic from The Hague is not worth losing desperately needed foreign aid.
One likely scenario, supported by public opinion polls in Serbia, would have Mr. Milosevic tried in Belgrade. Likely charges include embezzlement of state funds, involvement in a number of unsolved killings of Serb officials and the purchase of his state villa at a bargain price.
These accusations, however, seem unlikely to get at the iniquitous heart of Mr. Milosevic's rule. While losing four wars and plunging Serbia into poverty, he nevertheless succeeded for nearly 13 years in tapping into a collective soft spot in the Serbian psyche.
Even as his proxy armies robbed, raped and murdered innocent civilians across much of what used to be Yugoslavia, Mr. Milosevic found widespread popular support by convincing many Serbs that they were the victims of a worldwide conspiracy. Before last October, he won three elections that were more or less fair.
A criminal trial in Belgrade for embezzlement or even murder would not expose the ways in which thousands of Serbs were involved in and profited from war crimes committed by Mr. Milosevic's government. During the Bosnian war, for instance, hundreds upon hundreds of tractor-trailer loads of stolen goods were transported out of Bosnia and into Serbia for resale. 
A war crimes trial in The Hague is far more likely to explain how the Serbs themselves sustained Mr. Milosevic, while ignoring evidence of Serbian crimes against humanity in Bosnia, such as the siege of Sarajevo and mass murder in Srebrinica.
As in the war crimes trials in Nuremberg that followed World War II, a trial in The Hague could systematically lay bare the inner workings of the Milosevic regime before a world audience that included Serbs.
A recent poll in Serbia suggested that there was growing acceptance of this kind of outcome in any arrest of Mr. Milosevic. More than half of Serbs said they would not object if their former leader was extradited to The Hague.
For years leading up to the popular revolt that toppled Mr. Milosevic last year, many Serbs said they found it impossible to imagine a time when their country would escape international isolation and economic privation. They also said they could not imagine why the world blamed them for atrocities in Bosnia and Kosovo.
An arrest of Mr. Milosevic -- and the possibility that he will be tried for crimes against humanity -- has the potential to redress both of these failures of imagination, restoring Serbia to its place in the community of nations while revealing the Serbs to themselves.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ethnic Albanian refugees, fleeing Serbian attacks on Kosovo in 1999, sought refuge in Macedonia. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ARRESTS (90%); WAR CRIMES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); INDICTMENTS (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (77%); EMBEZZLEMENT (75%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); VOTERS & VOTING (68%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%) WAR CRIMES AND CRIMINALS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%)

PERSON: HARDEN, BLAINE; MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN; KOSTUNICA, VOJISLAV (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (91%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%) SERBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); KOSOVO (94%); NETHERLANDS (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); CROATIA (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); EUROPE (79%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); ALBANIA (79%) SERBIA

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2001 



32 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1583 words

HEADLINE: The World: Martyrdom; 
The Promise of Paradise That Slays Peace

BYLINE:  By JOHN F. BURNS 

 BODY:
ON a late summer day eight months ago, when an embittered Yasir Arafat had just returned from the failed talks at Camp David, American negotiators remained hopeful, somehow, that momentum toward peace between Israelis and Palestinians could be maintained.
 If there was a place, that day, to glimpse the likely futility of that hope, it was down the street from Mr. Arafat's headquarters. There, Sheik Ahmed Yassin, spiritual leader of Hamas, the Islamic Resistance Movement, told a visitor, with an unnerving smile, that the future lay with suicide bombers and other Palestinians ready to mingle their blood with that of "the Jews." 
 "How can Israel resist people who are prepared to die as martyrs?" he said. 
Last week, again, Israel felt the suicide bombers' bludgeon. In one of two attacks, on Wednesday, a Hamas militant detonated a bomb at a school bus stop, killing himself as well as two Israeli boys aged 16 and 14. Hours later, Israeli helicopters rocketed the Gaza headquarters of Mr. Arafat's security battalion, killing a commando. The shock wave from the bombings and a sniper killing of a 10-month-old girl at a Jewish settlement in Hebron prompted President Bush, in Washington, to demand that Mr. Arafat "stop the violence."
But if there is any message encoded in the Palestinian struggle, and in the record of Islamic militancy over 20 years, it is that nothing now on the horizon is likely to end such fanaticism. Indeed, many who study Islamic martyrdom predict more such attacks, and even deadlier ones if the militants master a new generation of chemical, biological and even nuclear weapons.
Amid anguish over the latest attacks, and a previous round of suicide bombings that killed more than 150 Israelis between 1994 and 1997, it is easy to think of Israel as peculiarly cursed in the tactics of its deadliest foes. In fact, the death squads of Hamas and another group, Islamic Jihad, are only part of the long history of religion-based terrorism and its most intimidating form, premeditated martyrdom.
If the most common contemporary exponents have been Islamic militants, it has not always been so. In "Inside Terrorism" (Columbia University Press, 1998), Bruce Hoffman, an American scholar who has studied the subject for the RAND Corporation, lists examples from Judaism, Islam, Hinduism and Christianity, and concludes: "More than 2,000 years ago the first acts of what we now describe as 'terrorism' were perpetrated by religious fanatics. Indeed, some of the words we use n the English language to describe terrorists and their actions are derived from the names of Jewish, Hindi and Muslim terrorist groups active long ago."
In the first century A.D., the Zealots, a Jewish millenarian sect, specialized in the dagger slayings of Roman centurions and their Jewish collaborators. A thousand years later, the Crusaders set out from Europe with a millenarian vision and sealed it, as they thought, with a merciless massacre of the vanquished in Jerusalem. In the century that followed, these Christians met their match in the Assassins, radical Shiite Muslims whose campaign of murder terrorized Crusaders in what became Syria and Iran, and whose name became synonymous with politically motivated killing. And India's thuggis -- thugs, as they became known during British rule -- worshiped the Hindu goddess of destruction, Kali, with a 1,200-year campaign of terror. In each case, the killers were sworn to sacrifice their own lives if necessary, in return for the promise of divine reward.
IN our time, too, the cult of sacrificial death has been ecumenical. In World War II, American sailors in the Pacific feared, more than anything else, the kamikaze dive-bombers of Japan, their foreheads wrapped in the ritual white cloths of Shintoism. Since the early 1990's in Sri Lanka, Tamil Tiger rebels, fighting for a Hindu state, have staged suicide truck bombings and human-wave attacks, with hundreds of child soldiers among the dead. And at Qiryat Arba, in the West Bank, militant Jewish settlers have made a legend of Baruch Goldstein, the young doctor who massacred 29 Muslim worshipers with automatic fire as they knelt at prayer at the tomb of the patriarch Jews and Muslims share, Abraham, in 1994, then died in a hail of bullets himself. On the Sabbath, settler children are encouraged to pray over Dr. Goldstein's tomb, which is inscribed, "He martyred himself for the cause of Israel."
But in no other religion, in modern times, has the cult of martyrdom taken root as it has in Islam, even though moderate Islamic scholars argue that the Koranic injunction to seek Paradise by dying in battle with the infidel does not extend to acts premised on suicide.
Scholars have traced the tradition of martyrdom to the beginnings of the faith, in seventh-century Arabia, when the Prophet Muhammad led his followers in battle, teaching them, according to a verse from the Koran, to wage aggressive war against infidels: "When the sacred months are past, then kill the idolaters wherever you find them." Thus inspired, Arab armies fighting for Islam conquered much of the Middle East and North Africa within a century of the prophet's death.
From the beginning, the Arab warriors struck terror into their enemies with their fearlessness. This, too, was engendered by their faith, which promised those falling in battle instant transport to Paradise. In passages from the Koran and other Islamic scriptures that are hand-copied on scraps of paper and carried into combat by Muslim fighters in the contemporary wars in Afghanistan, Chechnya, Somalia and a score of other spots, the rewards of martyrdom make anything the Romans envisaged in their Elysian fields seem tame.
Delights proscribed for Muslims on Earth, Muslim fighters are encouraged to believe, will be theirs in the afterlife if they win the status of shaheed, or martyr. In some versions the delights include the sweetest of wines and unlimited sex with the 72 virgins, lovely as rubies, with complexions like diamonds and pearls, who are the martyrs' promised reward. "Therein shall they delight themselves, lying on green cushions and beautiful carpets," the Muslim holy book says.
Experience suggests that those going into battle find the promises convincing enough. After a truck-bombing at the Beirut airport in 1983 killed 241 American servicemen, a corporal on guard duty who survived recalled the smile on the face of the bomber as he crashed his way into the barracks. Known as bassamat al-farah, the smile of joy, it was seen again when two Islamic terrorists bumped their fiberglass skiff against the American destroyer Cole in a Yemeni harbor last October, waving happily to the crew moments before they detonated a bomb that killed 17 American sailors.
The bombers, of course, rarely live to see what they have wrought, and that may be just as well, since the blood they spill rarely leads, in any tangible way, to the long-range political goals they seek, though it may gain attention for the moment. On the contrary, as the landslide election victory of Ariel Sharon showed in Israel, sporadic violence against the innocent often leads to a stiffening of resolve among those under attack, at least in the short run, and that leaves the martyrs, by any rational standard, not only dead, but pointlessly so. The same might be said of the kamikazes of Japan, whose society came to be repulsed by war itself.
BUT for all that, militant Islamic leaders see their followers' readiness to die -- and their adversaries' concern to live -- as the underdogs' great leveler in a world in which overwhelming military advantage lies with the enemy. The point has been made by the terrorist leader Osama bin Laden, and by Sheik Yassin, the Hamas leader. It is the crunch issue for American counterterrorism experts, who agonize over what they call "asymmetrical warfare."
Moderate Islamic scholars say the deliberate pursuit of death is proscribed by Islamic law. But in planning a holy war, the theological point carries little weight against the advantages that men like Mr. bin Laden and Sheik Yassin see in martyrdom. For them, the great ally is the anger and despair of those they recruit to their cause, commonly young men raised in poverty, and in the Palestinians' case, in the destitution and institutionalized anger of refugee camps. In Afghanistan, Yemen or Gaza, the hard fact is that many of those who ready themselves to die have little on earth to cherish.
Reason, of course, argues that negotiation with a superior enemy, and patience, are more likely to bring contentment than the last, blinding flash of a bomb. In some conflicts, most recently in Northern Ireland, that realization can prevail even among the killers, as the death toll rises and political ends remain unmet. But among those seeking martyrdom, and among families who survive them, reason is not, by experience, what prevails.
For the truth of this, it is necessary only to venture into the martyrs' cemetery south of Tehran, where tens of thousands of soldiers who died in the Iran-Iraq war a generation ago lie buried, the flags of martyrdom flapping on staves beside the graves. Even though the war itself, and its ghastly scale of loss, is remembered by many Iranians with little, if any, enthusiasm, every Friday whole families gather beside the graves to picnic, many remembering sons and brothers who were only children when they died. Far from grieving, the mood is mostly one of joy, for the happy souls transported to Paradise.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 8, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about suicide terrorists referred incorrectly to terrorist groups in South Asia. They are Hindu groups, not Hindi. Hindi is a language; Hindu refers to the religion. 
The article also misstated the goals of the Tamil Tigers in Sri Lanka. While the group imbues its fighters with a militant form of Hinduism, it seeks a separate Tamil state, not a Hindu state. Most, though not all,Tamils are Hindu. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Members of the group Islamic Jihad dressed as suicide bombers in a march and rally in Gaza last December. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); HAMAS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); RELIGION (90%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (88%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); TEEN SUICIDE (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (72%); HINDUS & HINDUISM (71%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (70%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (69%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (68%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (63%); HELICOPTERS (53%) SUICIDES AND SUICIDE ATTEMPTS; BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES; TERRORISM; PALESTINIANS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WEAPONS 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (63%); RAND CORP (63%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (90%); HEZBOLLAH (59%); AL-ISLAMI AL-JIHAD (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (63%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (63%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (63%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (55%) BURNS, JOHN F 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (96%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (95%); UNITED STATES (94%) ISRAEL

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2001 



33 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 715 words

HEADLINE: Liberties; 
The Asbestos President

BYLINE:  By MAUREEN DOWD 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Being witty about poisoned drinking water isn't easy. It requires a certain obtuse savoir-faire.
 Our president gave it a go Thursday night at a press dinner here. 
 "As you know, we're studying safe levels for arsenic in drinking water," he told the crowd of radio and TV correspondents at the Washington Hilton. "To base our decision on sound science, the scientists told us we needed to test the water glasses of about 3,000 people. Thank you for participating." 
I guess a guy who can yuk it up about a woman he has executed in Texas can yuk it up about anything.
But it was a creepy moment.
It worked for Erin Brockovich to joke about the carcinogens in the water enviro-villains were sipping because she wanted to get the poison out. W. wants to keep the poison in -- to help the enviro-villains who contributed to his campaign.
Forgive me, Al Gore.
I used to think you were striving too geekily to be Millennial Man. The Palm Pilot on your belt. The Blackberry. The Earth-cam you dreamed of. Citing "Futurama" as your favorite show. The obsessions about global warming and the information highway. Boldly choosing the first Jewish running mate.
But now I'm going hungry for a shred of modernity. Bush II has reeled backward so fast, economically, environmentally, globally, culturally, it's redolent of Dorothy clicking her way from the shimmering spires of Oz to a depressed black-and-white Kansas.
With the guidance of his regents, the Duke of Halliburton and Cardinal Rumsfeld, W. has set off the specter of a mushroom cloud of carcinogens and carbon dioxide emissions, nuclear power and "China Syndrome" fears, rapacious drilling and retrenchment on women's rights, the missile shield, spy tensions and the cold war.
The son has become what the father used to privately deride as an "extra-chromosome" conservative.
W.'s press conference on Thursday boiled down to one exhortation: "Let's hear it for corporations!"
This administration is so hawkish that Colin Powell is cast as a sandals-and-beads peacenik. And John Ashcroft threatens to fry the F.B.I. spy.
The Clinton team wrestled with the messy grays of a post-cold-war world. The Bush team decided it was easier to bring back the cold war.
"These guys are linear," says a top official from Bush I. "They have to have black and white. They have to have bogeymen."
One veteran cold warrior who served under several presidents told me he was shocked that Bush II had refrozen the cold war.
"They've turned the clock back to 1983," he said. "It doesn't make any sense to slap the Russians around. They're already on their knees. We don't have to humiliate them. We need to use some finesse, to allow them some dignity.
"The thing I always hated about Clinton foreign policy was they seemed to be making it up as they went along. But these guys seem to be doing that, too. They are negative toward old policies, without coming up with anything positive."
The regents moved quickly to cast the administration in the gray-flannel image of their salad days. (One Republican says that Henry Kissinger once called Mr. Rumsfeld the most ruthless man he knew, all global despots included.)
Not satisfied with smacking around the Russians, humiliating Christie Whitman, downsizing Condi Rice and brushing back Colin Powell, the Cheney-Rumsfeld axis has no patience for the plaints of health-conscious yuppies, either.
You can just hear Rummy, slugging back a Scotch with Cheney in the Oval after they've put the Kid to bed, grousing about the gazillion dollars' worth of investments he has to sell to avoid a conflict, and growling: "Real men can drink twice that much arsenic. And how soon can we get some lead back in the lousy paint?"
What's next? Asbestos, DDT, bomb shelters, filterless cigarettes? Patti Page? Rummy griping that Laura Bush is too assertive?
W. never seemed happier than he did on Friday at the White House, surrounded by the old-timers from the Baseball Hall of Fame, basking in memories of his beloved 50's.
He is only our second boomer president, but his White House needs Geritol. He seems older than his sprite of a father. He goes to bed early and, except for sports, is oddly disconnected from the culture. He seems to have no engagement with contemporary America, except by virtue of being the president of the United States. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COLD WAR (88%); SCIENCE NEWS (76%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (76%); WOMEN (75%); CARCINOGENS (74%); ASBESTOS (74%); POLITICS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); EMISSIONS (71%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (70%); CONSERVATISM (70%); HANDHELD COMPUTERS (67%); GLOBAL WARMING (66%); GREENHOUSE GASES (66%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (64%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

COMPANY: PALM INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (55%)

PERSON: AL GORE (58%) DOWD, MAUREEN; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE (FORMER PRES); POWELL, COLIN L (SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2001 



34 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: Backwoods Image Gone, Kentucky Town Revels in Hillbilly Roots 

BYLINE:  By FRANCIS X. CLINES

DATELINE: PIKEVILLE, Ky., March 28 

 BODY:
In the budding hollows of Appalachia, it is time to hear it for the H-word, hillbilly.
 "It's a little paradoxical, but when you can laugh at yourself, that's a healthy sign that you can acknowledge a part of your heritage and be comfortable with it," said Gov. Paul E. Patton of Kentucky. Accordingly, Mr. Patton, a Democrat born rural and poor, blesses this town's coming Hillbilly Days Festival as a measure of how far this outpost of Appalachia has progressed in creating a new image of itself. 
 The controversy that once attended the word hillbilly here in a place that was once the backwoods base of the feuding Hatfield and McCoy clans is slipping aside in the face of modern progress. Four-lane highways broke through years ago from the larger world, and the telecommunications and health care industries are booming the way mining once did. The first class of Appalachia's own students will graduate this spring from the Pikeville College School of Osteopathic Medicine.
In this transition, the annual Hillbilly Days festival, which packs 100,000 visitors into this town of 6,500, has become Pikeville's touch of self-parody. People wearing overalls and carrying moonshine jugs parade around, making the point that the past is past and the present is better. The word hillbilly, once shunned as a contrivance of ignorant outsiders, is freshly embossed on the festival's special edition bottles of Coca-Cola. The bottle, bearing the likeness of a bearded backwoods fiddler, is already a collector's item.
"The old days of Lyndon Johnson's foray into eastern Kentucky to highlight domestic poverty are gone," said Governor Patton, an Appalachian native whose hands still bear the ingrained coal dust of his years as a miner. "What we offer now is intellectual service to people around the world."
He referred to such high-tech staples as the Pikeville Methodist Hospital's regional complex, which has 150 doctors on it staff, and a computer trouble-shooting industry that employs more than 1,000 highly trained residents to answer calls from Internet customers around the globe. 
In busy shopping centers, descendants of old backwoods families note that they can get open-heart surgery right here, not to mention the services of more than 100 lawyers, and that their children attend schools chockablock with computer classes.
"Hillbilly?" asked Devon Scalf, a retired teacher eager for the festival's three-day party of music, clog dancing, costume parading and politicking, which will begin April 19. "Everybody gets stereotyped in life, but everybody's heritage just gets more valuable with time."
In turning "hillbilly" into a rallying cry, the festival has grown in the 25 years since local Shriners started it as a fund-raising event for children's hospitals. The Shriners liked the word so much that they also created a "hillbilly degree" to recognize achievements of members and began designating its units as "outhouse" chapters.
"Well, there was complaining from some at first about using hillbilly," recalled George C. Wells, a 91-year-old local car dealer and Shriner. "But it soon became a real fun thing, and look at all the children we brought out of the backwoods who needed hospital care," said Mr. Wells as he lovingly displayed the cob-stopped moonshine jug he totes in the annual parade.
Pikeville is an example of a new Appalachia painstakingly transforming itself from the old days of poverty, said Mike Kiernan, spokesman for the Appalachian Regional Commission, the quasi-governmental body created by the Johnson administration to oversee recovery in a 13-state, 406-county swath from southern New York to northern Mississippi.
"These folks are very sensitive to being stereotyped, but as these local communities become more diverse and clearly more part of the American mainstream, the old images simply don't hold," Mr. Kiernan said.
Since 1965, the poverty rate in Appalachia has dropped to 15 percent from 30 percent, infant mortality has fallen by two-thirds, to eight deaths per 1,000, and the high school graduation rate has doubled, to 68 percent. But economic distress remains widespread compared with that of the rest of the nation, and more economic engines like Pikeville are needed in the region, Mr. Kiernan said.
Coal remains the main industry but it is largely mechanized. A study predicts that health care will soon have a greater impact on the economy than coal, said Walter E. May, a former Pikeville mayor who is busier than ever as chief executive of Pikeville Methodist Hospital. With a new 11-story building and a staff of 1,200, the hospital draws patients from a 75-mile radius that extends into Appalachian precincts in Virginia and West Virginia.
The sense of opportunity in history has reached the point where the town has added an event to its calendar, a Hatfield-McCoy reunion weekend in June, said Walter Fletcher, the town's tourism chief.
"We walk a fine line between being very proud of our heritage and trying to dispel the typical idea the rest of the world has," said Sandy Runyon, executive director of the Area Development District, the planning agency for the Big Sandy River region. She described great strides in recent decades: the highways that ended isolation, the sewer and water projects that have modernized thousands of households, a nonprofit telecommunications service agency recruiting businesses to settle here.
All this is a far holler from the hillbilly jokes and Depression-era documentaries that froze this place in time for outsiders.
"It remains a very sensitive point," Ms. Runyon said. "A lot of people would rather not remember the past, but it gave us a heritage to be proud of."
Appalachia now is more like an urban metropolitan area with deep pockets of poverty than like some cartoon nether world, Governor Patton said.
"The middle-class element of Appalachia would compare most favorably with the rest of middle-class America: very educated, sophisticated people, although with a special affection for their heritage in the land," he said.
Any doubters should come and visit Hillbilly Days, the governor added with a smile. "It's an opportunity to compare reality to the stereotype," he said. "Although most of the people they'll see in hillbilly costumes are probably from out of town."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Walter Fletcher, left, chief of tourism in Pikeville, Ky.; George C. Wells, a local car dealer; and Devon Scalf, a retired teacher, all supporters of the Hillbilly Days Festival, met on the town's main street. (Dale W. Ferrell for The New York Times) Maps of Kentucky highlighting Pikeville.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FESTIVALS (89%); CHILDREN (87%); GOVERNORS (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (73%); HOSPITALS (73%); FAMILY (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); HEALTH CARE (68%); FUNDRAISING (67%); CHILDREN'S HOSPITALS (66%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (63%); OSTEOPATHY (52%); DANCE (50%); RETAILERS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (54%)

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KENTUCKY, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2001 



35 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1223 words

HEADLINE: Army Faces Fierce Fight On Historic Hawaii Valley 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN LEE MYERS

DATELINE: SCHOFIELD BARRACKS, Hawaii 

 BODY:
The Makua Valley rises from the leeward coast of Oahu into the volcanic bluffs of the Waianae Mountains, home to a multitude of endangered species. The valley floor is peppered with archaeological ruins, including the remnants of temples where humans were once sacrificed.
 The valley, just over the ridge from this Army post, is said by some to be a sacred place, the mythic birthplace of the Hawaiian people. To the United States Army, it is a sorely needed training area, where troops from the 25th Infantry Division could fire rifles, mortars and howitzers in the closest approximation to combat short of war. The Army's guns, however, are silent. 
 The Army suspended training at the Makua Military Reservation two and a half years ago amid a public outcry that followed several brush fires sparked by gunfire. Now the Army's plan to resume training has met fierce resistance from a coalition of residents and environmentalists who assert that military training, particularly with live weapons, is destroying the valley's cultural, historic and environmental legacy. 
"Our problem with the military is they don't understand the significance of Makua Valley," said William J. Aila Jr., a leeward coast resident and outspoken opponent of the Army's plans. "They're bombing the Earth Mother."
The controversy here in Hawaii is not simply local. It represents something that military commanders say is becoming one of the greatest threats to the readiness of the nation's military forces.
All of the armed services are fighting to keep or expand the training areas they say are needed to sustain combat-ready forces -- from the Navy's bombing range on the Puerto Rican island of Vieques to the Army's National Training Center in California's high desert.
The challenges, known broadly around the Pentagon as "encroachment issues," have simmered for years, but in the last decade they have become more frequent and more intense. Bases across the country are facing legal and political challenges. The Air Force is fighting a sweeping lawsuit that would halt low-level training flights nationwide until a comprehensive study could be done on their impact.
And many believe the challenges will only increase as environmental awareness grows, as American Indians demand greater respect for traditional homelands and as suburban sprawl reaches once-remote bases, sharply increasing complaints about noise, safety and health. 
"It is a problem that is real," the secretary of defense, Donald H. Rumsfeld, said at his Senate confirmation hearing in January. "The United States needs bases. It needs ranges. It needs test ranges. And it cannot provide the training and the testing that people need before they go into battle unless those kinds of facilities are available. And each year that goes by, there are greater and greater pressures on them." 
Here in Hawaii, where the issue has become entwined in local politics, the nascent sovereignty movement and concerns over economic development in the relatively impoverished leeward coast, the pressure may just be enough to shut down military training in the Makua Valley once and for all.
The Army's presence in the valley dates to the 1920's, when the service installed gun emplacements there. After the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, the Army confiscated 6,600 acres in and around the valley to train troops for World War II, evicting ranchers who lived there. It still occupies nearly 4,200 acres today. 
For decades, the Army and the other services bombed, strafed and otherwise carried out training exercises in Makua Valley with relative impunity. In recent years, however, the training has drawn protests from residents and, increasingly, the attention of federal regulators.
The fires that prompted the Army to suspend training in September 1998 raised concerns among officials with the United States Fish and Wildlife Service about the threat posed to 41 endangered species of plants and animals in or near the valley.
It was then that the Army's legal battle began. A group of residents and an advocacy group, the Earthjustice Legal Defense Fund, filed a lawsuit demanding that the Army comply with the National Environmental Policy Act and conduct a thorough review of the impact that training was having on the valley.
The Army ultimately settled the lawsuit, agreeing not to resume firing weapons in Makua until it had reviewed any potential impact and notified the public in advance. 
After more than two years of study, the Army announced last December that it planned to resume training, though in a more limited way, with units of more than 100 soldiers conducting operations and firing weapons in narrowly drawn zones.
The 25th Division's commanders argued that they had designed the training to minimize, if not eliminate, the effects on Makua Valley's historic sites and environment, but the plan provoked a new round of protests and a new lawsuit.
This time, the residents contended that the Army had failed to conduct a more rigorous and expensive environmental impact study. The less time-consuming environmental assessment, they said, did not consider a variety of issues, including whether there were alternative sites for military training. 
"There have been a significant number of impacts from the training that the Army has just not considered fully," said Paul H. Achitoff, a lawyer for Earthjustice. 
After protests that included a raucous community meeting in the town of Waianae in January, the division's commanders withdrew their plan, saying they wanted more time to consult with residents and others.
The Army also tried to have the lawsuit dismissed, but on March 1, a federal judge in Honolulu refused. 
The division commanders say the prolonged suspension of training in the Makua Valley has caused what one officer called "a slow degradation" of readiness. Last year only 8 of the division's 18 companies completed the annual live-fire training exercise the Army requires.
The Schofield base itself has firing ranges, but the commanders say only Makua has the space to allow a company of soldiers to maneuver through the terrain while firing their weapons and experiencing the thunderous impact of artillery and other weapons exploding near them.
"You don't want to experience that sensation for the first time in combat, with all of the other stress you face," said the division's assistant commander, Brig. Gen. Karl W. Eikenberry.
The Army's use of Makua has been greatly complicated by the expansion of the list of endangered species. In the early 1990's, the number of plants given protection jumped sharply, with 186 new species listed in Hawaii alone. 
General Eikenberry maintained that the Army had gone to great lengths to protect the environment at Makua, despite the fires. Evidence of the fires is still visible in the scorched trees along the valley floor. The division has a team of scientists monitoring the plants and trying to propagate the rarest of them, and an archaeologist working to protect the ruins from the troops.
But Fred Dodge, a doctor from Waianae and one of the plaintiffs in the lawsuit, said the Army still acted as it had in the past, refusing to consider alternative ways to simulate combat.
"This is the 21st century," he said. "I think if they can break out of that cold-war mentality, they could find there are other ways to train."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Army's plans to resume combat training in Hawaii's Makua Valley are being fought by residents and environmentalists, who say the training is destroying the valley's cultural, historic and environmental legacy. Brig. Gen. Karl W. Eikenberry is near the remnants of an ancient temple. (Photographs by Cory Lum for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (94%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY TRAINING (89%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (89%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); ARCHAEOLOGY (77%); MILITARY BASES (77%); BOMBINGS (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); NATIVE AMERICANS (76%); AIR FORCES (76%); FIREARMS (75%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); FIRES (70%); SUBURBS (68%); LITIGATION (60%); NOISE POLLUTION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); PUERTO RICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2001 



36 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 439 words

HEADLINE: Votes in Congress 

 BODY:
 Tally Last Week in Connecticut, New Jersey and New York.

Senate

1. Campaign Finance: Vote on an amendment to a bill that would overhaul the campaign finance laws. The amendment would extend the bill's restrictions on issue advertising by unions and corporations to all outside interest groups in the period just before elections. Approved 51 to 46, March 26.
2. Campaign Finance: Vote to kill an amendment to the campaign finance bill that would have tripled to $3,000 per election the limit on individual contributions to federal candidates. Approved 52 to 47, March 27.

3. Campaign Finance: Vote to reject an amendment to the campaign finance bill that would have limited soft money donations to $60,000 annually to national political parties. Approved 60 to 40, March 27.
4. Campaign Finance: Vote on a compromise amendment to the campaign finance bill that would allow individuals to give up to $2,000 per election to a federal candidate and a cumulative donation of $37,500 a year to all federal candidates and political parties. These figures would be adjusted for inflation every election cycle. (The current limits are $1,000 per candidate per election and $25,000 over all per calendar year.) Approved 84 to 16, March 28.
5. Campaign Finance: Vote to kill an amendment to the campaign finance bill that would have voided all major sections of the bill if the Supreme Court found any one part of the bill unconstitutional. Approved 57 to 43, March 29.

12345ConnecticutDodd (D)NayYeaYeaYeaYeaLieberman (D)NayYeaYeaYeaYeaNew Jersey:Corzine (D)YeaNayYeaYeaYeaNew Jersey (cont'd):Torricelli (D)YeaNayYeaYeaNayNew York:Clinton (D)YeaYeaYeaYeaYeaSchumer (D)NayYeaYeaYeaYea

House

1. Tax Cuts: Vote on legislation that would cut income taxes for married couples, and gradually increase to $1,000 the $500 child tax credit. Approved 282 to 144, March 29.

1Connecticut1Larson (D)Nay2Simmons (R)Yea3DeLauro (D)Nay4Shays (R)Yea5Maloney (D)Yea6Johnson (R)YeaNew Jersey1Andrews (D)Nay2LoBiondo (R)Yea3Saxton (R)Yea4Smith (R)Yea5Roukema (R)Yea6Pallone (D)Nay7Ferguson (R)Yea8Pascrell (D)Nay9Rothman (D)A10Payne (D)Nay11Frelinghuysen (R)Yea12Holt (D)Yea13Menendez (D)NayNew York1Grucci (R)Yea2Israel (D)Yea3King (R)Yea4McCarthy (D)Yea5Ackerman (D)Nay6Meeks (D)Nay7Crowley (D)Nay8Nadler (D)Nay9Weiner (D)Nay10Towns (D)Yea11Owens (D)Nay12Velazquez (D)Nay13Fossella (R)Yea14Maloney (D)Nay15Rangel (D)Nay16Serrano (D)Nay17Engel (D)Yea18Lowey (D)Nay19Kelly (R)Yea20Gilman (R)A21McNulty (D)Nay22Sweeney (R)Yea23Boehlert (R)Yea24McHugh (R)Yea25Walsh (R)Yea26Hinchey (D)Nay27Reynolds (R)Yea28Slaughter (D)Nay29LaFalce (D)Nay30Quinn (R)Yea31Houghton (R)Yea 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGN FINANCE (97%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REGULATION (73%); SUPREME COURTS (64%); INCOME TAX (63%); MARRIAGE (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: ROSA DELAURO (58%); BOB MENENDEZ (58%); ANTHONY D WEINER (58%); CAROLYN MALONEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2001 



37 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1450 words

HEADLINE: Some Very Expensive Belts Tightened, but Just a Notch 

BYLINE:  By BLAINE HARDEN 

 BODY:
Yes, the rich do feel something when the stock market gallops south, but it would be imprecise to call it pain.
 Allow a veteran Upper East Side butler, who manages homes in Manhattan, East Hampton and Colorado, to explain the subtle shadings of unease that have descended recently on the Silk Stocking district. 
 The butler, who noted that he would be fired if he or his employer were identified by name, said he had stopped pouring '89 Chateau Palmer ($195 a bottle) at dinner parties, downshifting instead to a slightly more shallow and marginally less complex '89 Chateau Talbot (about $40 a bottle). Though if there is a connoisseur among the guests, the butler said, he pours the better Bordeaux.
Instead of using an East Side florist who charges $300 for a dining-room arrangement, the butler eliminates the middleman and drives to the flower market himself to buy something equally delightful for $100. 
Laundresses are not being hired this summer for some of the finer homes in the Hamptons, he said. Many maids will find that they must wash clothes themselves, he said. 
Government statistics do not measure how the rich pull in their wings when markets turn bumpy, but it's safe to assume that the current downturn has caused little upset, at least so far, in the living standards of the well-to-do, said Prof. Edward Wolff, an economist at New York University who edits the Review of Income and Wealth, an academic journal.
He said that while the rich have lost a great deal of money in the stock market in recent months, those losses are coming out of the enormous gains they piled up in the last decade.
"They are certainly better cushioned" than the middle class, he said. 
By at least one key measure of financial stability, the rich are sitting prettier than they have been since the early 1980's. The relation of debt to wealth for the top 1 percent of American households was just 3.3 percent in 1998, according to Dr. Wolff's analysis of a Federal Reserve Board survey of consumer finances. The surveys are done every three years, and the data for 1998, the most recent year available, are still considered a strong indicator of wealth.
The surveys show a substantial decline in indebtedness among the rich since 1983, when debt amounted to 5.9 percent of their net worth. For the middle class, the indebtedness trend has flowed in exactly the opposite direction. Federal Reserve figures show that debt as a percentage of net worth for the middle class rose to 51.3 percent in 1998, from 37.4 percent in the 1980's. 
"It means that the very rich are in a much more secure position now than they were 20 years ago, and downturns in the economy are not going to really threaten their wealth position," Dr. Wolff said. "The middle class is much more vulnerable."
Howard Rubenstein, the public-relations man who has been doing damage control for New York's rich and powerful for more than four decades, said the market tailspin was making the rich "uptight." Brooding about stock-market losses, he said, has begun to sour dinner-party chitchat on Fifth Avenue.
But Mr. Rubenstein said that the extremely rich, at least so far, were still extremely rich, and that they did not anticipate, even in their darkest moments, being anything else. 
"Some of them are cutting back symbolically," he said. "They are saying, 'We got to show everybody it's time to tighten belts.' Some are cutting back on lawyers, P.R. and advertising. They are telling their staffs to cut back on car services and take Yellow cabs. Some are having sandwiches instead of going to restaurants. These people didn't get where they are by being frivolous."
With some pleasure, Mr. Rubenstein noted that he was finding it much easier in recent weeks to get reservations at New York's best restaurants.
With considerably less pleasure, a Manhattan chauffeur spoke of being on the losing end of a cut.
"The guy who I am driving cut my salary in early March," said the chauffeur, who also said he would lose his job if he were identified by name. He said his boss worked on Wall Street at an investment firm.
The chauffeur, 41, who has been driving a Mercedes-Benz S 500 for the last two years, said that his base salary had been $57,000, but that with overtime in 1999 and 2000 he made about $95,000 a year.
"The guy put me at a flat salary of $40,000 and he said no overtime," he said. "He sent me a letter saying it was because the market was blah, blah, blah. I threw the letter away, I was so angry."
For those hoping to understand how the downdraft of a falling stock market can rattle America's rich, the weather vanes in and around New York are worth watching. About 20 percent of the 275,000 American households worth more than $10 million live in the New York area, Dr. Wolff said.
At Ermenegildo Zegna's flagship store on Fifth Avenue, sales of $2,000 Italian suits have slumped.
"The consumer who would have bought four suits last year will buy three now," said Djordje Stefanovic, fashion and public relations director for the clothing company.
Sales of Chateau Petrus, a legendary Bordeaux that, depending on the vintage, sells for between $300 and $1,200 a bottle, have declined at the Sherry-Lehmann wine shop on Madison Avenue.
"For a few days in mid-March after the market went down, you could have shot a cannon through Sherry-Lehmann," said Michael Aaron, the owner of the store. "We were down almost 30 percent, but it has come back and now we are holding our own."
In the last four months, new Jaguars have stayed in New York area showrooms for an average of 47 days before they sold. That's 8 days longer than during a similar period last year, according to J. D. Power & Associates, a marketing firm. Its figures show that new Cadillacs have been hanging around 30 days longer than before, Lincolns 39 days longer and Porsches 2 days. Auto industry analysts say the luxury car market is softening, not collapsing.
Perhaps the most telling indicator of a change in the psychic climate for the rich and near-rich in the New York area is the cork bulletin board at the Sagaponack General Store, in the heart of the Hamptons. Summer houses renting for as much as $65,000 are on offer there because, owners say, real-estate agents have been unable to find tenants.
Lynda Miller recently pinned a note to that bulletin board, offering to rent her three-story California-style beach house with its 20-foot ceilings and secluded pool ("You can swim in the nude," she said). She is offering it at $55,000 for the summer, slightly more than last year. But in a decided break from the recent past in the Hamptons, she said she was flexible.
She resorted to the bulletin board, she said, because she badly needs to find a renter. "This year it hasn't happened," said Ms. Miller, who rented her place last year to two young investment bankers from Lazard Freres, both of whom drove new Porsches. "Money is money, and people are not spending as quickly as before. I never had to wait this late to rent it before. But New York has enough money. My house will go. The Hamptons are the Hamptons."
And the price of luxury real estate in the Hamptons, as well as elsewhere in New York and across the country, is certainly not collapsing, at least not yet.
"Anything that comes to market at a real honest price has sold quickly," said Diane Saatchi, president of Dayton-Halstead Real Estate, which publishes a quarterly report on home prices in seven markets in the Hamptons. And real honest prices, she said, are still up about 20 percent over last year.
What has collapsed are what Ms. Saatchi described as the "out of whack" prices that many Hamptons homeowners began demanding in late 1999.
"Our statistics found that the average asking price jumped about 100 percent between '99 and 2000," she said. "People priced their houses not on anything rational, or anything related to demand, but according to their inflated notion of their net worth. The story is somewhat comical. Most of those houses never sold."
A kind of reality has returned this year, Ms. Saatchi said, as what she called the "bubble-pricing phenomenon" for real estate has sunk along with the Nasdaq.
One builder who feels the bursting of the bubble is Jay Lieberman, who completed a 12,000-square-foot Southampton house last year that he hoped would sell for $8 million, preferably in cash. He said he pulled out all the stops in construction, including installing English shower fixtures that cost up to $3,000 each.
"Whoever takes this house will be a client with a lot of money who walks in and says, 'Wow,' " he told The New York Times last summer.
So far, though, the house is empty. Mr. Lieberman said he did not have a buyer lined up. He is willing to consider $7 million.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Since the economy makes it harder to rent luxury houses, some owners supplement conventional marketing efforts with public notes, like this ad on the bulletin board at the Sagaponack General Store in the Hamptons. (Gordon M. Grant for The New York Times)(pg. 30) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); TRENDS (87%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (86%); STATISTICS (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (70%); LIVING STANDARDS (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); BONDS (61%); CENTRAL BANKS (60%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; STOCKS AND BONDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT 

PERSON: HARDEN, BLAINE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2001 



38 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1776 words

HEADLINE: SECRET U.S. STUDY CONCLUDES TAIWAN NEEDS NEW ARMS 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL R. GORDON 

DATELINE: TAIPEI, Taiwan, March 31 

 BODY:
A confidential review by United States naval officers has concluded that Taiwan needs a significant infusion of new weapons, including a sophisticated ship-borne radar system that China has put at the top of the list of arms it does not want Taiwan to have.
 The assessment was carried out by officers from the United States Pacific Fleet, who visited Taiwan to assess its naval requirements in light of China's military buildup. While military factors are not the only consideration, the still secret review is an important element of the deliberations about whether to sell Taiwan the radar system, known as Aegis, and other naval weapons. 
 The decision on whether to sell naval, air force and army weapons, which President Bush is expected to make in the next few weeks, is one of the first major foreign policy tests for his administration and could set the tone of United States-Chinese relations for years to come. 
China has bitterly opposed the sale of sophisticated weapons, which it fears will lead to a new degree of cooperation between Taiwan and the United States and buttress pro-independence sentiment on the island. 
Beijing has singled out as particularly objectionable potential sales of three types of weapons: the Navy's Aegis, which China fears may provide the basis for an eventual antimissile defense and blunt China's missile threat to the island; the Army's advanced Patriot antimissile system known as PAC-3; and submarines, which China maintains are offensive weapons and which the United States has never before sold to Taiwan. Taiwan has sought to buy submarines as well as the Aegis and has also been in discussions about the new Patriot system. 
In addition to citing a need for the Aegis system by 2010, the American naval officers who conducted the review concluded that Taiwan also needed the Kidd-class destroyer as a stopgap. And they cited the need for new submarines as well as an underwater sonar array to detect Chinese subs. Besides the naval review, similar studies have been carried out concerning other parts of Taiwan's military. 
The pending decision on arms sales has split American China hands, including those in the Republican Party, putting pressure on Mr. Bush from both sides. 
On one side are policy experts who say it would be foolish to pick a diplomatic fight with Beijing before the Bush administration has a chance to begin a dialogue with the leadership there. Washington's long-term interests, those experts say, are best served by finding a way to engage China, a nation of 1.3 billion people and a nuclear power with a growing economy. 
On the other side are pro-Taiwan conservatives who insist that the United States has a moral obligation to safeguard Taiwan, a democratic nation of 22 million, from threats from the Communist government in Beijing. The conservatives also say that Washington should contain China's growing military power in Asia.
While there has been much discussion about China's growing force of short-range ballistic missiles, Beijing has also deployed new warplanes, destroyers, submarines, anti-ship missiles and surface-to-air missiles, many of which it bought from Russia. That has created a growing threat to Taiwan's aging fleet, whose role is to protect the island from attack and prevent a Chinese blockade. 
The review of Taiwan's naval needs was begun during the Clinton administration. After Taiwan sought to buy four Arleigh Burke-class destroyers equipped with the Aegis system, the Clinton administration deferred a decision and asked for a Pentagon assessment.
A team of officers from the United States' Pacific Fleet inspected Taiwan's navy. Their conclusions have circulated among officials in Washington and Taiwan and have served as the basis for a Pentagon report on "Taiwan naval modernization."
Experts familiar with the officers' review say it concludes that by 2010 Taiwan will need vessels equipped with long-range surface-to-air missiles, a sophisticated battle management system and a phased-array radar, which is the hallmark of the Aegis system. 
The year 2010 is significant since it may take eight years or more to agree on a configuration of the Aegis system for Taiwan's navy, build the ship and integrate it into Taiwan's fleet, according to American military specialists. 
As an interim step, the review suggests that Taiwan buy four Kidd-class destroyers, which had most elements of the top advanced air defense systems before the Aegis was developed. The United States developed the destroyers for the shah of Iran, but the sale was thwarted after the shah fell from power. The ships were later used by the United States Navy and were nicknamed "Ayatollah-class" destroyers, but they have since been retired. 
In a recommendation that is certain to prove contentious, the United States officers concluded that Taiwan needed new submarines. Currently, Taiwan has only four, including two Guppies of World War II vintage which it uses for training and which cannot descend more than 150 feet.
The review found that Taiwan needed an underwater sonar array to alert it to the presence of Chinese submarines near its ports and coasts. It also describes a need for a new maritime aircraft to hunt for enemy submarines and conduct patrols, alluding to the American P-3, which Taiwan also wants to buy. 
The Aegis has been the center of much of the public debate, which has not always been well informed. Unlike a rotating radar antenna, the Aegis's four stationary arrays search the sky electronically. The Aegis is designed to track more than 200 targets, including sea-skimming missiles, and to direct ship-fired missiles at them. 
While much of the discussion concerns the Aegis's potential as an antimissile platform, the United States Navy has yet to develop a sea-based theater antimissile system. And even if it does develop such a missile defense, the type of Aegis being considered for sale to Taiwan would not be equipped with an interceptor able to counter the Chinese ballistic missiles directed at Taiwan. 
The primary reason to sell the Aegis is to protect Taiwan's fleet, and upgrading the Aegis to serve as a theater missile defense would require a future decision in Washington. "There is a fantastic mythology about the Aegis," said Kurt Campbell, who led the Pentagon effort to improve Taiwan's defense ability during the Clinton administration. 
Some liberal critics have complained that the Aegis would have an offensive capability because it would be armed with Tomahawk land attack cruise missiles. But the variant that the Pentagon is considering selling to Taiwan would not be equipped with those weapons.
There is something of a precedent for an Aegis sale. In an little known episode, the United States offered to sell a scaled-back version of the Aegis radar and command and control system in 1992 and install it on Taiwan's Perry-class frigates. Taiwan decided not to buy the system. That was before China continued its buildup in the Taiwan Strait and sought to pressure Taiwan by test-firing its ballistic missiles close to the island in 1995 and 1996.
This is not to say that there is unanimous agreement among military experts, including those in Taiwan, about the Aegis. Advocates of the system say it would provide Taiwan's fleet with the best possible protection against Chinese antiship missiles as well as a top-notch battle-management system. They say it could even serve as a backup command post in the event that Taiwan's land-based command posts were destroyed in missile strikes from China. 
Critics cite its cost, $1 billion a ship, and the almost decade-long delivery time. And they question whether the Taiwanese Navy would be able to operate and maintain such a sophisticated weapons platform.
As the political debate over the Aegis has heated up, some analysts have speculated that the Kidd destroyers could be the basis of a compromise that would enable the White House to appear resolute while avoiding a rupture with Beijing.
By selling the destroyers, the Bush administration could argue that it was acting quickly to improve Taiwan's ability to defend its fleet. The administration could then put Beijing on notice that Washington would go ahead with the Aegis sale next year unless China curtailed its military buildup near Taiwan.
Trumpeting the value of the Kidds, Adm. Dennis Blair, the head of the U.S. Pacific Command, told Congress this week that the Kidd had an effective air defense ability and could be delivered in only two years, a time frame some experts say is somewhat optimistic. He also noted that the Kidds and the Arleigh Burke-class destroyers have the same propulsion system, suggesting that it could provide Taiwan's navy with some useful training should it eventually acquire the Aegis-equipped Arleigh Burke.
Wu Shi-wen, Taiwan's defense minister, indicated that Taiwan's priority was still to acquire the Aegis because it had the potential to serve as a sea-based antimissile defense. In an interview, he declined to say if Taiwan would buy the Kidds, saying the matter required further study. 
But other Taiwanese officials suggested that Taiwan would be willing to defer the Aegis purchase for a year if it was linked to a demand that China restrain its military buildup. 
"We are still hopeful that our request for the Aegis will be granted this year," Dr. Tien Hung-mao, Taiwan's foreign minister, said in an interview. "But I think this is something we are willing to give the U.S. administration room to think about. In the end, if the Chinese fail to cooperate, the U.S. will be in a more justifiable position to say, hey, we gave you 12 months. You cannot just make unilateral demands without making any concessions."
Some experts say, however, that while the Kidd might do for now, it is no substitute for the Aegis, especially if the Chinese continue to increase their air, missile and naval forces nears Taiwan throughout the decade. 
They say the Aegis's phased-array radar and combat system is capable of tracking and attacking a greater number of targets than Kidd's system, which uses an older, rotating radar.
The Arleigh Burke-class destroyers on which the Aegis is installed also carries more surface-to-air missiles than the Kidd and can fire more quickly. And if the United States succeeds in developing a theater sea-based antimissile defense and decides to provide it to Taiwan, it would use the Aegis-equipped Arleigh Burke, not the Kidd, as a platform. 
"The Kidds can handle the current Chinese antiship missile threat," said Norman Polmar, a naval analyst. "But the Chinese future missile capability will require a much more sophisticated defense like the Aegis."

GRAPHIC: Photos: In 1992 the United States offered Aegis systems for Perry-class frigates like these at Keelung, Taiwan. (Associated Press); Adm. Dennis Blair, who visited Beijing in 2000, told Congress that Kidd-class ships could provide Taiwan with an effective air defense ability. (Associated Press)(pg. 12) Map of Asia highlighting Taiwan: Taiwan's fleet is meant to protect against an attack or a blockade. (pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RADAR SYSTEMS (92%); MILITARY WEAPONS (92%); ARMED FORCES (90%); NAVIES (90%); ARMIES (90%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); ARMS TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); CONSERVATISM (84%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); SONAR SYSTEMS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); MILITARY VESSELS (78%); NAVAL VESSELS (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); AIR FORCES (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (73%); ISLANDS & REEFS (66%); POLITICAL PARTIES (65%) UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; SHIPS AND SHIPPING; NAVIES; RADAR; ARMS SALES ABROAD 

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (66%); DENNIS BLAIR (58%) GORDON, MICHAEL R; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (94%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); TAIWAN (98%); CHINA (98%); ASIA (79%) TAIWAN; CHINA

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2001 



39 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 8; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 3290 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL; 
2001 BASEBALL PREVIEW

BYLINE:  By Murray Chass 

 BODY:
 This preview was written by Murray Chass. Teams are listed in predicted order of finish.

A.L. East

NEW YORK YANKEES
Joe Torre, sixth year 2000: 87-74, first place
A former baseball owner who works in Washington would have to invoke some national emergency act to keep the Yankees from finishing first for the fourth consecutive season. That doesn't mean they will necessarily win their fourth successive World Series, but the division has conspired to make sure they win it again.
 The only competition the Yankees have would seem to be themselves. Avoid injuries and the ramifications of advancing age in some of their players, and the division is theirs. Only a complete breakdown by Roger Clemens (38 years old), Paul O'Neill (38), David Justice (35), Scott Brosius (34) and Tino Martinez (33) could undermine the postseason plans.
Alfonso Soriano, on the other hand, offers an infusion of youth as the rookie second baseman drafted for the job when the veteran Chuck Knoblauch was exiled to left field. Even more surprising is the development of another rookie, the unheralded Christian Parker, as the fifth pitcher in the starting rotation.

KEY ADDITION -- Mike Mussina.
KEY LOSS -- Jeff Nelson.
KEY TO SEASON -- The Yankees need only to show up every day.

PROBABLE STARTERS
1B -- Tino Martinez
2B -- Alfonso Soriano
SS -- Derek Jeter
3B -- Scott Brosius
LF -- Chuck Knoblauch
CF -- Bernie Williams
RF -- Paul O'Neill
DH -- David Justice
C -- Jorge Posada
SP -- Roger Clemens, Andy Pettitte, Orlando Hernandez, Mike Mussina, Christian Parker
Closer -- Mariano Rivera

BOSTON RED SOX
Jimy Williams, fifth year 2000: 85-77, second
At least the Red Sox have taken the suspense out of the season for their tortured fans. Neither team nor supporters will suffer the late-season or postseason letdown that goes with the territory.
The longer Nomar Garciaparra, the two-time defendingbatting champion, remains out with the wrist injury that didn't prevent him from hitting .372 last season, the farther behind the Yankees the Red Sox will sink. John Valentin's continued knee problem puts the entire left side of the infield on the disabled list. Shea Hillenbrand, who has not played above Class AA, replaces Valentin.
Manny Ramirez was lured out of his comfort zone n Cleveland for a team-record $160 million contract, but whom is he going to drive in? Relevant question No. 2 is: How soon before Carl Everett ignites another clubhouse conflagration? Question 3 is: Will David Cone overcome the curse of old age and help keep the Red Sox ship from sinking, like cartons of tea, in Boston Harbor?

KEY ADDITION -- Manny Ramirez.
KEY LOSS -- Nomar Garciaparra (D.L.).
KEY TO SEASON -- Ramirez's runs batted in will have to match his contract total, and Pedro Martinez will have to pitch every third day.

PROBABLE STARTERS
1B -- Brian Daubach/Jose Offerman
2B -- Chris Stynes
SS -- Craig Grebeck/Mike Lansing (Nomar Garciaparra D.L.)
3B -- Shea Hillenbrand (John Valentin D.L.)
LF -- Troy O'Leary/Trot Nixon
CF -- Carl Everett
RF -- Manny Ramirez
DH -- Scott Hatteberg/Dante Bichette
C -- Jason Varitek
SP -- Pedro Martinez, Hideo Nomo, Frank Castillo, Tomo Ohka, Paxton Crawford (David Cone D.L.)
Closer -- Derek Lowe

TORONTO BLUE JAYS
Buck Martinez, first year 2000: 83-79, third
Shorn of their 20-game winner, David Wells, the Blue Jays begin the season in Puerto Rico today with Esteban Loaiza pitching for his 50th victory in six seasons. That contrast says more than the Blue Jays want to know about the state of their starting pitching.
When they traded Wells, they acquired Mike Sirotka and expected to have him pitch the opener, but they don't have him either because he has a sore shoulder. It's enough to make Buck Martinez wonder why he left the comfort of the broadcasting booth for the managerial hot seat in the dugout.
Raul Mondesi and Jose Cruz, an underachiever, are going to have to help Carlos Delgado (.344, 41 home runs, 137 R.B.I.) an/ Tony Batista (41, 114) produce runs because the Blue Jays will need them to compensate for a pitching staff whose best pitcher in 2000 is in Chicago.

KEY ADDITION -- Mike Sirotka.
KEY LOSS -- David Wells.
KEY TO SEASON -- An overachieving pitching staff could catapult the Blue Jays past the Red Sox.

PROBABLE STARTERS
1B -- Carlos Delgado
2B -- Homer Bush
SS -- Alex Gonzalez
3B -- Tony Batista
LF -- Shannon Stewart
CF -- Jose Cruz Jr.
RF -- Raul Mondesi
DH -- Brad Fullmer
C -- Darrin Fletcher
SP -- Esteban Loaiza, Steve Parris, Joey Hamilton, Chris Carpenter, Chris Michalak (Mike Sirotka D.L.)
Closer -- Billy Koch

BALTIMORE ORIOLES
Mike Hargrove, second year 2000: 74-88, fourth
Mike Hargrove can take consolation in the fact that the Indians failed to finish first last season after they fired him despite his five consecutive division titles. But the reality is he manages the Orioles, and he can derive no consolation from that dysfunctional group.
Albert Belle is gone, the victim of a degenerative arthritic hip, which means the Orioles will have one fewer sour personality but far fewer runs. If they could pay off the salaries of many of their other players with insurance, as they will Belle's salary, the Orioles would be better off starting over.
Chuck McElroy is starting over. After relieving in 603 of the 605 major league games in which he has pitched, the 33-year-old left-hander has become a member of the starting rotation.

KEY ADDITION -- Pat Hentgen.
KEY LOSSES -- Albert Belle, Mike Mussina.
KEY TO SEASON -- Cal Ripken (40), Brady Anderson (37) and their fellow seniors would have to rediscover the fountain of youth for the team to have its first winning season since 1997.

PROBABLE STARTERS
1B -- David Segui
2B -- Jerry Hairston Jr.
SS -- Mike Bordick
3B -- Cal Ripken
LF -- Brady Anderson
CF -- Melvin Mora
Rf -- Chris Richard
DH -- Jeff Conine/Delino DeShields
C -- Brook Fordyce
SP -- Pat Hentgen, Sidney Ponson, Jason Johnson, Jose Mercedes, Chuck McElroy
Closer -- Ryan Kohlmeier

TAMPA BAY DEVIL RAYS
Larry Rothschild, fourth year 2000: 69-92, fifth
The Devil Rays would love to shed their distinction of being the only franchise in major league history that has never won 70 games in a season. Even the St. Louis Browns and the Washington Senators, both the original and the reincarnation, won that many times.
The Devil Rays beefed up last year, hoping an offense-oriented team would attract uninterested fans, but they had the league's lowest team batting average by 10 points, they scored the fewest runs and they drew the second-lowest attendance.
The hitter they have added this season is Ben Grieve, who led the majors last year by grounding into 32 double plays and placed in the top 15 with 130 strikeouts. To get Grieve, they gave up their closer, Roberto Hernandez, but they didn't needed the high-priced ernandez to sit around waiting for them to have a lead in the ninth inning.

KEY ADDITION -- Ben Grieve.
KEY LOSS -- Roberto Hernandez.
KEY TO SEASON -- Drawing enough fans to keep the franchise going.

PROBABLE STARTERS
1B -- Fred McGriff
2B -- Bobby Smith
SS -- Felix Martinez
3B -- Vinny Castilla
LF -- Greg Vaughn
CF -- Gerald Williams
RF -- Ben Grieve
DH -- Steve Cox
C -- John Flaherty
SP -- Albie Lopez, Paul Wilson, Bryan Rekar, Ryan Rupe, Travis Harper (Juan Guzman, Wilson Alvarez D.L.)
Closer -- Tanyon Sturtze, Esteban Yan

A.L. Central

CLEVELAND INDIANS
Charlie Manuel, second year2000: 90-72, second
Toppled from their first-place perch last year, the Indians are eager to re ain the spot they had come to believe they owned. If their pitchers stay healthy, they could succeed. The pitchers were not healthy last year, and some have still not completely recovered. Charles Nagy and Jaret Wright open the season on the disabled list, but they are expected back before long.
One pitcher who may join the staff before long is Carsten Charles Sabathia, known as C.C., a 20-year-old, 6-foot-7 left-hander, who fires the ball at speeds up to 98 miles an hour. "He can be intimidating like Randy Johnson," Charlie Manuel says.
The Indians need Juan Gonzalez to become the intimidating run producer he was before last season, when he had the worst year of his 10-year career, driving in only 67 runs whle hampered by a back ailment. He and Ellis Burks, who also has a good R.B.I. history, were signed to help the Indians overcome the departure of Manny Ramirez, their R.B.I. machine.

KEY ADDITIONS -- Juan Gonzalez, Ellis Burks.
KEY LOSSES -- Manny Ramirez, Sandy Alomar Jr.
KEY TO SEASON -- If Gonzalez can support a strong pitching effort, first place could be theirs again.

PROBABLE STARTERS
1B -- Jim Thome
2B -- Roberto Alomar
SS -- Omar Vizquel
3B -- Russell Branyan (Travis Fryman D.L.)
LF -- Ellis Burks
CF -- Kenny Lofton
RF -- Juan Gonzalez
DH -- Wil Cordero
C -- Einar Diaz
SP -- Bartolo Colon, Chuck Finley, Dave Burba, C.C. Sabathia (Charles Nagy, Jaret Wright D.L.)
Closer -- Bob Wickman

CHICAGO WHITE SOX
Jerry Manuel, fourth year 2000: 95-67, first
They began spring training last year with a noisy confrontation between the manager and the star. The star proceeded to have the best season of his career. They began spring training this year with a boycott by the star over his contract. The White Sox would take Frank Thomas having an even better season than he had last year, when he hit 43 home runs and knocked in 143 runs.
They will need another titanic season from Thomas if they are to repeat as division winners, although a tighter defense anchored by Royce Clayton, the new shortstop forced out of Texas by Alex Rodriguez, and a new No. 1 pitcher, the 20-game winner David Wells, could also facilitate that encore.
Jose Valentin was brought in a year ago to replace Mike Caruso at short and bolster the defense; now he moves to center field, replaced by Clayton to bolster the defense.

KEY ADDITIONS -- David Wells, Sandy Alomar Jr., Royce Clayton.
KEY LOSSES -- Charles Johnson, Mike Sirotka.
KEY TO SEASON -- Having been swept out of the playoffs could provide the extra inspiration they need to repeat.

PROBABLE STARTERS
1B -- Paul Konerko
2B -- Ray Durham
SS -- Royce Clayton
3B -- Herbert Perry
LF -- Carlos Lee
CF -- Jose Valentin
RF -- Magglio Ordonez
DH -- Frank Thomas
C -- Sandy Alomar Jr.
SP -- David Wells, Cal Eldred, Jim Parque, Mark Buehrle (James Baldwin D.L.)
Closer -- Keith Foulke

KANSAS CITY ROYALS
Tony Muser, fifth year 2000: 77-85, fourth
Even without the bat and feet of Johnny Damon, traded before he left as a free agent, the Royals should again have one of the most potent offenses in the league.
Mike Sweeney (144 R.B.I.), Jermaine Dye (118 R.B.I.) and Joe Randa, a .300 hitter four of the past five years, have become the reliables. The Royals look for Carlos Beltran (44 R.B.I.) to revert to his rookie level (108 R.B.I. in 1999), and for Mark Quinn, a second-year player, and Dee Brown, a rookie, to provide additional punch.
Pitching is the major question mark. It was as poor last year as the hitting was good. Roberto Hernandez brings credibility to the bullpen as the closer, but the rest of the staff will remain suspect until proven guilty of good pitching.

KEY ADDITION -- Roberto Hernandez.
KEY LOSS -- Johnny Damon.
KEY TO SEASON -- They are ready to move up, but the boost has to come from the pitching staff.

PROBABLE STARTERS
1B -- Mike Sweeney
2B -- Carlos Febles
SS -- Rey Sanchez
3B -- Joe Randa
LF -- Mark Quinn
CF -- Carlos Beltran
RF -- Jermaine Dye
DH -- Dee Brown/Dave McCarty
C -- Hector Ortiz (Gregg Zaun D.L.)
SP -- Jeff Suppan, Blake Stein, Dan Reichert, Brian Meadows, Mac Suzuki (Jose Rosado D.L.)
Closer -- Roberto Hernandez

DETROIT TIGERS
Phil Garner, second year 2000: 79-83, third
Saddled with eight consecutive losing seasons in Milwaukee and Detroit, Phil Garner needs a break, but he won't get it with the Tigers this year. Despite a 25 percent jump in attendance in their new park, the Tigers decided to spend less money on their players. That decision could send them in the wrong direction.
The big move in the off-season was a trade with -- who else? -- the Houston Astros, but Roger Cedeno, Mitch Meluskey and Chris Holt won't make a huge difference, Meluskey because he is out for the season with a shoulder ailment. Tony Clark could if he remains healthy, which he wasn't last season when he drove in a third of the runs he had averaged the previous three seasons.
Garner can only hope that his little-known starting pitchers perform as effectively as they did last season. The staff over all issued the fewest walks in the league.

KEY ADDITION -- Roger Cedeno.
KEY LOSSES -- Juan Gonzalez, Brad Ausmus.
KEY TO SEASON -- Hitters will have to manufacture runs to do their part.

PROBABLE STARTERS
1B -- Tony Clark
2B -- Damion Easley
SS -- Deivi Cruz
3B -- Shane Halter (Dean Palmer D.L.)
LF -- Bobby Higginson
CF -- Juan Encarnacion
RF -- Roger Cedeno
DH -- Billy McMillon
C -- Brandon Inge (Mitch Meluskey D.L.)
SP -- Jeff Weaver, Brian Moehler, Dave Mlicki, Chris Holt, Steve Sparks
Closer -- Todd Jones

MINNESOTA TWINS
Tom Kelly, 15th year 2000: 69-93, fifth
The Tom Kelly baseball school continues to train young players.
"We've increased the work program," Kelly says. "We're trying to get past playing A-B-C baseball, trying to get to where we can do a few things, whether it's on base or defensively. We'd like to incorporate some things needed to play on a higher level. We're moving along at a better pace, with more knowledge, and we think the players can handle that."
Doug Mientkiewicz, the first baseman, may be ready to. He played the entire 1999 season with the Twins but returned to the minors for virtually all of last season for remedial work. He is joined on the right side of the infield by a rookie, Luis Rivas. Some of the other players have been around long enough now that their names may be familiar.

KEY ADDITION -- None.
KEY LOSS -- Ron Coomer.
KEY TO SEASON -- All they can hope for is educational growth and consistent play.

PROBABLE STARTERS
1B -- Doug Mientkiewicz
2B -- Luis Rivas
SS -- Cristian Guzman
3B -- Corey Koskie
LF -- Jacque Jones
CF -- Torii Hunter
RF -- Matt Lawton
DH -- David Ortiz
C -- A.J. Pierzynski
SP -- Brad Radke, Eric Milton, Mark Redman, Joe Mays
Closer -- LaTroy Hawkins

A.L. West

OAKLAND ATHLETICS
Art Howe, sixth year 2000: 91-70, first
Strong sign of success: the Athletics traded the player who grounded into the most double plays in the majors last season (Ben Grieve) for the player who led the American League in stolen bases (Johnny Damon).
Damon gives the Athletics a dimension they didn't have at the top of their linep. Although Damon can be a free agent after the season, they went far enough last season that they think he can help them go even further. And they could very well be right.
The Jason Giambi-led Athletics scared the Yankees in their five-game playoff series, and they offer reasons everyone should fear them this season. Their only concern is the players they let go for economic reasons: Randy Velarde, who was replaced at second by Jose Ortiz, a rookie; Matt Stairs, who provided power; and Kevin Appier, one of only nine pitchers who won at least 15 games each of the past two seasons.

KEY ADDITION -- Johnny Damon.
KEY LOSSES -- Randy Velarde, Ben Grieve, Matt Stairs, Kevin Appier.
KEYS TO SEASON -- John Jaha, coming back from a shoulder injury, has to pick up some of the power slack, and someone has to take Appier's place as a winning pitcher.

PROBABLE STARTERS
1B -- Jason Giambi
2B -- Jose Ortiz
SS -- Miguel Tejada
3B -- Eric Chavez
LF -- Johnny Damon
CF -- Terrence Long
RF -- Jeremy Giambi/Adam Piatt
DH -- John Jaha
C -- Ramon Hernandez
SP -- Tim Hudson, Barry Zito, Gil Heredia, Mark Mulder, Cory Lidle
Closer -- Jason Isringhausen

SEATTLE MARINERS
Lou Piniella, ninth year 2000: 91-71, second (wild card)
Last year the Mariners lost Ken Griffey Jr. and won 12 more games than they did the year before, so this year they should win maybe 100 games because they lost Alex Rodriguez, right? If only it worked that way. It is a double blow, after a razor-thin miss of a division title, that would make some managers give up, but Lou Piniella plods on, a hitting proponent counting on pitching more than ever. Piniella would be ecstatic if Carlos Guillen should play as well replacing Rodriguez as Mike Cameron did in Griffey's absence.
Ichiro Suzuki could help as the new leadoff hitter. A seven-time batting champion in Japan, he becomes the first Japanese position player to start for a major league team. However he does, call him only by his first name. That's how he was known in Japan.

KEY ADDITIONS -- Ichiro Suzuki, Jeff Nelson.
KEY LOSS -- Alex Rodriguez.
KEY TO SEASON -- A strong starting rotation and a beefed-up bullpen, which added Nelson, have to carry this once prodigious hitting team

PROBABLE STARTERS
1B -- John Olerud
2B -- Bret Boone
SS -- Carlos Guillen
3B -- David Bell
LF -- Al Martin (Jay Buhner D.L.)
CF -- Mike Cameron
RF -- Ichiro Suzuki
DH -- Edgar Martinez
C -- Dan Wilson
SP -- Freddy Garcia, John Halama, Aaron Sele, Jamie Moyer, Paul Abbott
Closer -- Kazuhiro Sasaki

TEXAS RANGERS
Johnny Oates, seventh year 2000: 71-91, fourth
As much as the Rangers may like to think it is possible, Alex Rodriguez will not play shortstop four days and pitch the fifth day. His sports-record $252 million contract does not require him to add that duty to his repertory.
Rodriguez, on the other hand, could lead a power-packed lineup in challenging the 1931 Yankees' modern major league record for runs scored (1,067). He will have plenty of assistance from Rafael Palmeiro, Ivan Rodriguez, Andres Galarraga and Ken Caminiti, among others.
But oh, that pitching, starting and relieving. Tim Crabtree is an untested closer who will most likely be called on to protect 11-10 leads. Ryan Glynn and Doug Davis, the youthful segment of the starting rotation, have made 39 major league starts between them. Rick Helling, Kenny Rogers and Darren Oliver, the veteran starters, have made many more, but this season they have to win many more.

KEY ADDITIONS -- Alex Rodriguez, Randy Velarde, Andres Galarraga, Ken Caminiti.
KEY LOSSES -- John Wetteland, Royce Clayton.
KEY TO SEASON -- The hitters will do their part; it's up to the pitchers.

PROBABLE STARTERS
1B -- Rafael Palmeiro
2B -- Randy Velarde
SS -- Alex Rodriguez
3B -- Ken Caminiti
LF -- Rusty Greer
CF -- Chad Curtis
RF -- Ruben Mateo (Gabe Kapler D.L.)
DH -- Andres Galarraga
C -- Ivan Rodriguez
SP -- Rick Helling, Kenny Rogers, Darren Oliver, Ryan Glynn, Doug Davis
Closer -- Tim Crabtree

ANAHEIM ANGELS
Mike Scioscia, second year 2000: 82-80, third
When a team starts its season with three-fourths of its infield on the disabled list, it doesn't figure to have a favorable outlook. We give you the agonized Angels.
Mo Vaughn, Adam Kennedy and Gary DiSarcina are injured. Vaughn's being out for the season is one of the most devastating losses any team can have. The Angels hoped that Jose Canseco could provide some of the missing punch, but he failed the test and has been replaced as designated hitter by Glenallen Hill, who slugged 16 home runs in 132 at-bats for the Yankees in the last 10 weeks of last season.
The Angels, it should be noted, do not lack for scoring ability, with Troy Glaus (47 homers, 102 R.B.I.), Garret Anderson (35, 117), Tim Salmon (34, 97) and Darin Erstad (.355, 100) in the lineup.

KEY ADDITIONS -- Glenallen Hill, Wally Joyner.
KEY LOSS -- Mo Vaughn (D.L.).
KEY TO SEASON -- Their scoring question aside, the Angels won't go anywhere in a tough division without a better pitching staff than the one that compiled a 5.00 earned run average last year.

PROBABLE STARTERS
1B -- Wally Joyner (Mo Vaughn D.L.)
2B -- David Eckstein (Adam Kennedy D.L.)
SS -- Benji Gil (Gary DiSarcina D.L.)
3B -- Troy Glaus
LF -- Garret Anderson
CF -- Darin Erstad
RF -- Tim Salmon
DH -- Glenallen Hill
C -- Bengie Molina
SP -- Scott Schoeneweis, Pat Rapp, Ramon Ortiz, Matt Wise, Ismael Valdes (Jarrod Washburn D.L.)
Closer -- Troy Percival

GRAPHIC: Photos: MANNY RAMIREZ -- The Red Sox signed the free-agent slugger to drive in runs the way he did in Cleveland -- 432 R.B.I. in the past three seasons. (Associated Press); ELLIS BURKS -- The outfielder returns to the American League after seven seasons in the National League. (Associated Press); CARLOS BELTRAN -- After a stormy and unproductive sophomore season, the Royals hope their center fielder matches his rookie numbers. (Associated Press); JASON GIAMBI -- The reigning M.V.P. heads into the final year of his contract. (Agence France-Presse); RAFAEL PALMEIRO -- The first baseman, who has hit more than 35 home runs in each of the past six seasons, is only part of a power-packed lineup. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (96%); SPORTS FANS (78%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (75%); KNEE DISORDERS & INJURIES (70%); MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (70%) BASEBALL 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); BOSTON RED SOX (59%); KANSAS CITY ROYALS (59%)

PERSON: DEREK JETER (58%) CHASS, MURRAY 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (86%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (88%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (86%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2001 



40 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 8; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 3454 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL; 
2001 BASEBALL PREVIEW

BYLINE:  By Murray Chass 

 BODY:
 This preview was written by Murray Chass. Teams are listed in predicted order of finish.

N.L. East

ATLANTA BRAVES
Bobby Cox, 12th year 2000: 95-67, first place
So many signs point to the end of the Braves' nine-year run of division championships. They didn't sign Alex Rodriguez or Mike Hampton, John Smoltz opens the season on the disabled list as he completes his recovery from elbow surgery, Javier Lopez has just about recovered from a broken finger, Greg Maddux was hit on the left foot by a batted ball the other day and will miss his opening day start tomorrow. It doesn't seem to stop.
 But as Yogi said, it ain't over till it's over, so don't count out the Braves on April 1 when by April 12 they could be five games ahead of the Mets. And after those two increasingly fierce rivals play each other 19 times, who knows what the Braves' lead could be?
The Braves had plenty of adversity last season and overcame it, and this season they will have a little more. Rico Brogna replacing Andres Galarraga, for example. Both are nice guys, but Galarraga drove in 100 runs.

KEY ADDITION -- Rico Brogna.
KEY LOSS -- Andres Galarraga.
KEY TO SEASON -- They just have to keep their heads while everyone around them is losing theirs.

PROBABLE STARTERS
1B -- Rico Brogna
2B -- Quilvio Veras
SS -- Rafael Furcal
3B -- Chipper Jones
LF -- B.J. Surhoff
CF -- Andruw Jones
RF -- Brian Jordan
C -- Javier Lopez
SP -- Greg Maddux, Tom Glavine, Kevin Millwood, John Burkett, Odalis Perez (John Smoltz D.L.)
Closer -- John Rocker

NEW YORK METS
Bobby Valentine, fifth year 2000: 94-68, second
The Mets figure the least they can do is win the division after going to the World Series without having won it. But they have to go through the Braves to reach first place, and that has been an insurmountable roadblock.
After spending a frustrating off-season pursuing but failing to land a succession of star players, the Mets contend that this team is nevertheless better than last year's version. Their critics question that claim. The next 162 games will determine who is correct.
Kevin Appier should be a creditable pitcher, but the other rotation newcomer, Steve Trachsel, has to establish himself as a winning pitcher again. Since he produced a 15-8 record in 1998, he has won 16 games and lost 33. He has pitched at least 200 innings in each of the past five seasons, but saving the bullpen isn't the only requirement.

KEY ADDITIONS -- Kevin Appier, Steve Trachsel.
KEY LOSS -- Mike Hampton.
KEY TO SEASON -- Better or not, the Mets have to beat the Braves to beat the Braves.

PROBABLE STARTERS
1B -- Todd Zeile
2B -- Edgardo Alfonzo
SS -- Rey Ordonez
3B -- Robin Ventura
LF -- Benny Agbayani
CF -- Jay Payton
RF -- Timo Perez
C -- Mike Piazza
SP -- Al Leiter, Kevin Appier, Rick Reed, Glendon Rusch, Steve Trachsel
Closer -- Armando Benitez

FLORIDA MARLINS
John Boles, third year 2000: 79-82, third
The Marlins seem to be the team to tout this year, but the justification for that designation remains to be seen. One sign of their serious intentions was the signing of Charles Johnson, who was their catcher when they won the World Series in 1997. Johnson was sent away with the rest of the team's high-priced players after the Series, but the Marlins are ready to begin working again toward contending status.
Developing young pitching is at the center of the plans, and the pitching is developing. Ryan Dempster (14-10) is the staff leader, and Jason Grilli, whose father, Steve, pitched in the majors in the 70's, is one of the bright young staff prospects. They bolstered the rotation the other day by obtaining Matt Clement from San Diego.

KEY ADDITIONS -- Charles Johnson, Matt Clement.
KEY LOSS -- None.
KEY TO SEASON -- Expecting the Marlins to challenge for second place would be asking too much, but they can continue to improve.

PROBABLE STARTERS
1B -- Derrek Lee
2B -- Luis Castillo
SS -- Alex Gonzalez
3B -- Mike Lowell
LF -- Cliff Floyd
CF -- Preston Wilson
RF -- Eric Owens
C -- Charles Johnson
SP -- Ryan Dempster, Jason Grilli, Brad Penny, Matt Clement (Chuck Smith, A.J. Burnett D.L.)
Closer -- Antonio Alfonseca

PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES
Larry Bowa, first year 2000: 65-97, fifth
No greater disaster exists in baseball than the Phillies. In five of seven seasons since they won the pennant in 1993, the Phillies have failed to win 70 games. Last season, when they were expected to move up in the division, they plummeted to last place. Now Larry Bwa is the manager who will try to motivate the underachievers.
They are young underachievers. Doug Glanville is the only regular who is as old as 30. Robert Person, 31, is the only starting pitcher beyond 29. Indicative of their plight are some figures from last season. Scott Rolen led the team in R.B.I. with 89. Bobby Abreu was the lone .300 hitter.
Maybe they need a few more years to turn the disaster into something positive.

KEY ADDITION -- Jose Mesa.
KEY LOSS -- None.
KEY TO SEASON -- Larry Bowa, 13 years after his first managing job, has to find the elusive ignition that will turn the Phillies on.

PROBABLE STARTERS
1B -- Travis Lee
2B -- Marlon Anderson
SS -- Jimmy Rollins
3B -- Scott Rolen
LF -- Pat Burrell
CF -- Doug Glanville
RF -- Bobby Abreu
C -- Mike Lieberthal
SP -- Omar Daal, Robert Person, Bruce Chen, Randy Wolf, Amaury Telemaco
Closer -- Jose Mesa

MONTREAL EXPOS
Felipe Alou, 10th year2000: 67-95, fourth
This could very well be Felipe Alou's last season as the Expos' manager. For the team's sake, it should be the Expos' last year in Montreal. If ever a team needed to be moved to another city, this is it; many people wouldn't even know if the Expos left.
But the Expos would miss Alou because he has been a stabilizing force for a decade. The best players have left, but Alou has loyally stayed. He has some good young hitters to work with, like Vladimir Guerrero, Jose Vidro and Fernando Tatis, but he needs some of the potentially good young pitches to get healthy and stay healthy.
Not everyone on the team is young. Tim Raines, 41, has made the team as a backup outfielder after being out of baseball last year.

KEY ADDITION -- Fernando Tatis.
KEY LOSSES -- Dustin Hermanson, Steve Kline.
KEY TO SEASON -- If Felipe Alou's steady hand can guide some of the pitches, the Expos should move closer to .500.

PROBABLE STARTERS
1B -- Lee Stevens
2B -- Jose Vidro
SS -- Orlando Cabrera
3B -- Fernando Tatis
LF -- Milton Bradley
CF -- Peter Bergeron
RF -- Vladimir Guerrero
C -- Michael Barrett
SP -- Javier Vazquez, Britt Reames, Tony Armas Jr., Mike Thurman, Chris Peters (Carl Pavano, Hideki Irabu D.L.)
Closer -- Ugueth Urbina

N.L. Central

ST. LOUIS CARDINALS
Tony La Russa, sixth year2000: 95-67, first
Mark McGwire, who hit 32 home runs in 236 at-bats in an injury-plagued season, will vault to No. 4 on the career list if he slugs 33 this season. Then only Willie Mays, Babe Ruth and Hank Aaron will be ahead of him. A healthy McGwire could make the difference between the division champions who lost to the Mets in the league playoff series last October and the division champions who go to the World Series.
Dustin Hermanson, acquired from Montreal, and the hard-throwing Matt Morris, finally ready to resume his role as a starter two years after elbow surgery, could also make a difference in the pitching part of the pennant-winning equation. And if Rick Ankiel keeps the strike zone in sight, the starting corps will be solid.

KEY ADDITIONS -- Dustin Hermanson, Steve Kline.
KEY LOSSES -- Fernando Tatis, Pat Hentgen.
KEY TO SEASON -- With the starting pitching strong (Garrett Stephenson, a 16-game winner, will make it even stronger when he comes off the disabled list), the Cardinals should have little competition in the division.

PROBABLE STARTERS
1B -- Mark McGwire
2B -- Fernando Vina
SS -- Edgar Renteria
3B -- Craig Paquette
LF -- Ray Lankford
CF -- Jim Edmonds
RF -- J.D. Drew
C -- Mike Matheny
SP -- Darryl Kile, Andy Benes, Dustin Hermanson, Matt Morris, Rick Ankiel (Garrett Stephenson D.L.)
Closer -- Dave Veres

CINCINNATI REDS
Bob Boone, first year 2000: 85-77, second
Bob Boone, the third choice for the job, gets his second chance as a manager, and his tenure should be less agonizing than his time in Kansas City. Boone spent the past three years working with General Manager Jim Bowden.
A strong start by Ken Griffey Jr., which he didn't have last year, would enhance Boone's start. In his first year with the Reds, Griffey hit .212 the first two months, .301 the last four. Boone will also have a healthy Barry Larkin, who missed 60 games last year with injuries.
The starting rotation includes a rookie right-hander, Chris Reitsma, and a 1995 Cuban defector, Osvaldo Fernandez, who has been plagued by elbow ailments the past four years, including last season, when he spent eight weeks on the disabled list.

KEY ADDITION -- None.
KEY LOSS -- Steve Parris.
KEY TO SEASON -- They will go as far as Ken Griffey and Barry Larkin can carry them.

PROBABLE STARTERS
1B -- Sean Casey
2B -- Pokey Reese
SS -- Barry Larkin
3B -- Aaron Boone
LF -- Dmitri Young
CF -- Ken Griffey Jr.
RF -- Alex Ochoa
C -- Jason LaRue
SP -- Pete Harnisch, Osvaldo Fernandez, Chris Reitsma, Elmer Dessens, Rob Bell
Closer -- Danny Graves

HOUSTON ASTROS
Larry Dierker, fifth year 2000: 72-90, fourth
The Astros dropped so far and so quickly after three consecutive division titles that the thud still resounds in their heads. They hurt themselves by trading Mike Hampton and Carl Everett, but they were also undermined by injuries to critical players like second baseman Craig Biggio (torn knee ligaments), closer Billy Wagner (torn elbow tendon) and starting pitcher Shane Reynolds (back problems).
Reynolds, who had seven victories last season after compiling 35 the previous two years, tore knee cartilage in December, and he will start out on the disabled list. That leaves the pitching burden to Scott Elarton, who won 17 games last year, and Jose Lima, who plunged from a 21-10 record to 7-16 while giving up a remarkable total of 48 home runs.
The Astros brought back catcher Brad Ausmus to help the pitching staff.

KEY ADDITION -- Brad Ausmus.
KEY LOSS -- None.
KEY TO SEASON -- Strong winning performances by Jose Lima and Shane Reynolds could spur the Astros back toward the top; if not. ...

PROBABLE STARTERS
1B -- Jeff Bagwell
2B -- Craig Biggio
SS -- Julio Lugo/Jose Vizcaino
3B -- Chris Truby
LF -- Lance Berkman
CF -- Richard Hidalgo
RF -- Moises Alou
C -- Brad Ausmus
SP -- Scott Elarton, Jose Lima, Wade Miller, Octavio Dotel, Kent Bottenfield (Shane Reynolds D.L.)
Closer -- Billy Wagner

MILWAUKEE BREWERS
Davey Lopes, second year 2000: 73-89, third
President Bush, baseball fan, plans to attend the Brewers' opener at their new park Friday night. Perhaps his presence there and in the White House will mark a change of fortunes for the Brewers, who in the eight seasons Bill Clinton was president had losing records.
Realistically, Richie Sexson, the big first baseman, will play a more significant role in the Brewers' future than the president. Manager Davey Lopes said the Brewers' turnaround last season began with the acquisition of Sexson. With Sexson driving in 47 runs, the Brewers generated a 30-28 record after having stumbled along at 43-61.
This season the team could receive impetus from Ben Sheets, a rookie pitcher, who was the hero of the United States' gold medal-winning team in last year's Olympics.

KEY ADDITION -- Jeffrey Hammonds.
KEY LOSS -- None.
KEY TO SEASON -- If Jeff D'Amico and Jamey Wright set the tone with effective pitching, the Brewers could gain their first winning record since the last year Bush's father was in the White House.

PROBABLE STARTERS
1B -- Richie Sexson
2B -- Ron Belliard
SS -- Jose Hernandez (Mark Loretta D.L.)
3B -- Tony Fernandez
LF -- Geoff Jenkins
CF -- Jeffrey Hammonds
RF -- Jeromy Burnitz
C -- Henry Blanco
SP -- Jeff D'Amico, Jamey Wright, Jimmy Haynes, Paul Rigdon, Ben Sheets
Closer -- Curtis Leskanic

PITTSBURGH PIRATES
Lloyd McClendon, first year 2000: 69-93, fifth
There ought to be a rule against making a manager start his rookie season with three of his starting pitchers on the disabled list. That's what Lloyd McClendon faces with Kris Benson, Jason Schmidt and Francisco Cordova. When will they be available to pitch? Benson, the No. 1 starter, could be back late this month; the prognosis for the others is uncertain.
In the meantime, the Pirates shifted Terry Mulholland from the bullpen to the rotation and traded for Omar Olivares.
Elsewhere, Jack Wilson, obtained from St. Louis last July, was so impressive in spring training that he bumped the veteran Pat Meares from shortstop to second base, a move that shoved Warren Morris to the minors after two full seasons as the second baseman.

KEY ADDITIONS -- Terry Mulholland, Omar Olivares.
KEY LOSS -- None.
KEY TO SEASON -- If the wounded pitchers can get back quickly enough, the Pirates could have a decent season for a new manager in a new park.

PROBABLE STARTERS
1B -- Kevin Young
2B -- Pat Meares
SS -- Jack Wilson
3B -- Aramis Ramirez
LF -- Brian Giles
CF -- Adrian Brown
RF -- Derek Bell
C -- Jason Kendall
SP -- Todd Ritchie, Terry Mulholland, Jimmy Anderson, Omar Olivares, Bronson Arroyo (Kris Benson, Jason Schmidt, Francisco Cordova D.L.)
Closer -- Mike Williams

CHICAGO CUBS
Don Baylor, second year 2000: 65-97, sixth
Now that Sammy Sosa is happy with a lucrative contract extension, the Cubs can set about the business of making their fawning fans happy by winning more than 65 games. But how to accomplish that task?
Their off-season effort entailed a large roster shuffle, bringing in a collection of new players. They have half a new infield with either Ron Coomer or Matt Stairs at first base and Bill Mueller at third; half a new catching platoon with Todd Hundley; a new closer in Tom Gordon; and two new starting pitchers, Jason Bere and Julian Tavarez.
The decision not to re-sign Mark Grace, their longtime first baseman, was a sign that the Cubs knew they had to break with the past to create a new future.

KEY ADDITIONS -- Matt Stairs, Ron Coomer, Bill Mueller, Todd Hundley, Julian Tavarez, Jason Bere, Tom Gordon.
KEY LOSS -- Mark Grace.
KEY TO SEASON -- They could use the kind of super boost from Kerry Wood, who is finally healthy, that he gave the Cubs as a rookie in 1998.

PROBABLE STARTERS
1B -- Matt Stairs/Ron Coomer
2B -- Eric Young
SS -- Ricky Gutierrez
3B -- Bill Mueller
LF -- Rondell White
CF -- Damon Buford
RF -- Sammy Sosa
C -- Joe Girardi/Todd Hundley
SP -- Jon Lieber, Kerry Wood, Kevin Tapani, Julian Tavarez, Jason Bere
Closer -- Tom Gordon

N.L. West

SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS
Dusty Baker, ninth year 2000: 97-65, first
Walking a narrow economic line, the Giants keep going and going and going. With a payroll not quite half of what the Yankees paid their players last year, they compiled the best won-lost record in the majors last season. Much to their disappointment, they made a quick exit from the playoffs, courtesy of the Mets.
They made some roster changes in the off-season based on economics, shedding Ellis Burks and Bill Mueller and adding veteran but lower-priced free agents like Eric Davis, Shawon Dunston and Benito Santiago. They had Armando Rios ready to replace Burks and Russ Davis to play third in Mueller's place until they decided that Pedro Feliz, the highly touted rookie, was ready.
A question that will hang over the Giants all season: Will Barry Bonds be one of those too-expensive players they let go next winter?

KEY ADDITIONS -- Eric Davis, Benito Santiago.
KEY LOSSES -- Ellis Burks, Bill Mueller.
KEY TO SEASON -- Watch Dusty Baker, the manager, motivate his players into contention again.

PROBABLE STARTERS
1B -- J.T. Snow
2B -- Jeff Kent
SS -- Rich Aurilia
3B -- Russ Davis
LF -- Barry Bonds
CF -- Marvin Benard
RF -- Armando Rios
C -- Benito Santiago/Bobby Estalella
SP -- Livan Hernandez, Shawn Estes, Russ Ortiz, Kirk Rueter, Mark Gardner
Closer -- Robb Nen

ARIZONA DIAMONDBACKS
Bob Brenly, first year 2000: 85-77, third
The World Series window will not be open long for this aging, expensive team, so Jerry Colangelo, the managing partner, decided to lighten the mood. Buck Showalter was out, Bob Brenly in.
But the team's failure to repeat as division winner last season had at least as much to do with injuries as howalter's uptight style of managing. Matt Williams's absence for nearly half the season was the most devastating element of the lost season.
This season is starting off with a critical injury. Todd Stottlemyre, the No. 3 starting pitcher, will miss at least a month with a shoulder problem. Curt Schilling could help cover Stottlemyre's absence by pitching to his expected level of performance, not the 5-6 level he created in his two months with the Diamondbacks last season.

KEY ADDITIONS -- Mark Grace, Reggie Sanders.
KEY LOSSES -- None.
KEY TO SEASON -- Any team with Randy Johnson and Schilling should make a run at the playoffs, but the Diamondbacks will have to think and act younger to get there.

PROBABLE STARTERS
1B -- Mark Grace
2B -- Jay Bell
SS -- Tony Womack
3B -- Matt Williams
LF -- Luis Gonzalez
CF -- Steve Finley
RF -- Reggie Sanders
C -- Damian Miller
SP -- Randy Johnson, Curt Schilling, Brian Anderson, Armando Reynoso (Todd Stottlemyre D.L.)
Closer -- Matt Mantei

LOS ANGELES DODGERS
Jim Tracy, first year 2000: 86-76, second
These are not your father's Dodgers, Peter O'Malley. These are the Gary Sheffield Dodgers, capable of self-destructing at the sound of a whine. Sheffield has actually been on his best behavior for a couple of weeks now, but who thinks that will last well into the season?
The Dodgers have other problems as well. Adrian Beltre, their good young third baseman, is still recovering from a botched appendectomy, and Dave Hansen, who would have filled in, is recovering from a broken finger.
They don't know what to expect from Shawn Green, who looked so attractive from a distance that they gave him more money than Sheffield earns. It is very likely that Green was trying too hard to justify the contract. He could have a big year, but then, so could Sheffield.

KEY ADDITION -- Andy Ashby.
KEY LOSS -- Todd Hundley.
KEY TO SEASON -- The Dodgers need to overcome the enemy within, personified by Sheffield, to contend for that elusive division title.

PROBABLE STARTERS
1B -- Eric Karros
2B -- Mark Grudzielanek
SS -- Alex Cora
3B -- Chris Donnels (Adrian Beltre, Dave Hansen D.L.)
LF -- Gary Sheffield
CF -- Tom Goodwin
RF -- Shawn Green
C -- Chad Kreuter/Paul LoDuca
SP -- Kevin Brown, Chan Ho Park, Darren Dreifort, Andy Ashby, Eric Gagne
Closer -- Jeff Shaw

COLORADO ROCKIES
Buddy Bell, second year 2000: 82-80, fourth
Mike Hampton and Denny Neagle are being paid a lot of money to pitch in the den of pitching inequity. The Rockies committed the money, a total of $172 million, because they know they can't without good pitching, and they are desperately trying to win. The money, however, bought no guarantees. Hampton and Neagle still have to show they can pitch effectively in the mile-high altitude.
As if those contracts weren't serious enough, the Rockies just gave Todd Helton a $141.5 million extension over nine years, one for each year the team has been in existence. The Rockies only hope that a couple of their young players, center fielder Juan Pierre and the platoon catcher Ben Petrick, develop as Helton has. He only hit .372 last season. 

KEY ADDITIONS -- Mike Hampton, Denny Neagle.
KEY LOSS -- Jeffrey Hammonds.
KEY TO SEASON -- Hampton and Neagle have to solve the mystery of how to pitch successfully at Coors Field.

PROBABLE STARTERS
1B -- Todd Helton
2B -- Todd Walker
SS -- Neifi Perez
3B -- Jeff Cirillo
LF -- Todd Hollandsworth/Ron Gant
CF -- Juan Pierre
RF -- Larry Walker
C -- Brent Mayne/Ben Petrick
SP -- Mike Hampton, Denny Neagle, Pedro Astacio, Brian Bohanon, Ron Villone
Closer -- Jose Jimenez

SAN DIEGO PADRES
Bruce Bochy, seventh year 2000: 76-86, fifth
The Padres continue to be the sad sack of the division. That status isn't likely to change in the near future.
There aren't, on the other hand, too many other teams that have two future Hall of Famers. The Padres have Tony Gwynn in right field, as long as his knee allows, and Rickey Henderson, a once-great leadoff hitter in waiting.
After they belatedly signed the unemployed Henderson, the Padres traded for Mark Kotsay. When Gwynn has to rest his knee, Kotsay will move from left to right and Henderson can play left, enabling him to break Babe Ruth's all-time walk record and Ty Cobb's runs scored record. He might even join Gwynn in the 3,000-hit circle.

KEY ADDITION -- Rickey Henderson.
KEY LOSS -- None.
KEY TO SEASON -- Tony and Rickey -- is that all there is?

PROBABLE STARTERS
1B -- Ryan Klesko
2B -- Damian Jackson
SS -- Chris Gomez
3B -- Phil Nevin
LF -- Mark Kotsay
CF -- Mike Darr
RF -- Tony Gwynn
C -- Ben Davis
SP -- Woody Williams, Kevin arvis, Adam Eaton, Bobby Jones, Brian Tollberg (Sterling Hitchcock D.L.)
Closer -- Trevor Hoffman

GRAPHIC: Photos: RICO BROGNA -- The first baseman played only 81 games last season, but he drove in more than 100 runs in 1998 and '99 for the Phillies. (Associated Press); CHARLES JOHNSON -- The catcher played for four teams in the past three seasons. He returned to the Marlins, signing a five-year, $35 million deal. (Associated Press); RANDY JOHNSON -- He won his third Cy Young award last season with a 19-7 record, a 2.64 E.R.A., 8 complete games and a league-leading 347 strikeouts. (Associated Press); MIKE HAMPTON -- Coors Field has been unkind to pitchers. He won't be playing in another World Series any time soon. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (94%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); BONE FRACTURES (76%) BASEBALL 

ORGANIZATION: ATLANTA BRAVES (94%)

PERSON: ALEX RODRIGUEZ (57%) CHASS, MURRAY 

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (73%) GEORGIA, USA (73%); NEW YORK, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2001 



41 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1182 words

HEADLINE: Del Webb Corp. Is Scaling Back Near Hilton Head 

BYLINE:  By LYN RIDDLE 

DATELINE: BLUFFTON, S.C. 

 BODY:
THE builders of the Sun City retirement communities came here six years ago hoping to transplant large-volume building practices honed in a western desert to an eastern pine barren.
 But after sales that never matched expectations, executives at the Del Webb Corporation have decided to scale back plans for its Sun City Hilton Head community. They are negotiating to sell 1,000 of the 5,600 acres the company owns, which would let it finish the development early, perhaps by 2006, instead of 2013. 
 In all, 6,500 homes would be built, instead of the 8,500 originally planned. Del Webb has sold 2,200 so far. The company has also decided against building a third golf course. A similar reduction is under way at Del Webb's Sun City development in Georgetown, Tex. 
The change was spurred partly by sluggish sales here, but also by a revised strategic plan designed to increase earnings. The company intends to move toward building smaller developments that require less time and money to build. The plan was announced in March after a takeover attempt and stockholder revolt last fall.
"Del Webb is a Phoenix, Ariz.-based company and its success is based on a western development model," said M. Lewis Hammet, a spokesman for Sun City Hilton Head. Alluding to the climate, the semitropical growing conditions in which vegetation flourishes and the labor market here as compared with the West, he added: "You don't have to contend with rainy weather. Del Webb was used to trying to make things grow, not stopping them from growing, and the cost of labor here was far above what it is there."
Initially, the company expected to sell 500 homes a year in a development about 13 miles inland from Hilton Head Island, which has grown in the last three decades from a sleepy sea island to become one of South Carolina's pre-eminent resort communities.
In its best year, 1999, Sun City Hilton Head sold 425 homes. In the fiscal year that ended in June, the company sold 364 homes, ranging from 1,100 to 2,940 square feet and costing $119,000 to $315,900. The company also has a more expensive section, Riverbend, in which houses sell for $270,900 to $393,00 and range from 2,240 to 3,500 square feet.
The 1999 sales total of 425 does not include the 310-lot Riverbend section, which Mr. Hammet said was selling more quickly that expected. 
The reduction in the scope of the project did not come as a complete surprise to area residents. Last year, the company laid off 47 employees here and the year before lowered its age restriction to 50 from 55 to raise sales.
The development includes a 45-acre recreation area known as Town Square, which features a social hall, an arts and crafts center, a fitness center and sports facilities like tennis courts and a softball field.
The Del Webb Corporation, founded in 1960 by Del E. Webb, a former owner of the New York Yankees, represented a new concept in retirement living centered on recreation and limiting ownership to residents older than 55. In its first year, Phoenix Sun City sold 1,300 units and convinced bankers and investors that the idea had merit.
AT the same time, Mr. Webb's company was building Chicago's sports stadiums -- Comiskey Park, Wrigley Field and Soldiers Field -- and planning a corporate community known as Oak Brook, Ill., that is now headquarters for McDonald's and Ace Hardware. , 
Besides the South Carolina and Texas developments, Del Webb owns retirement communities in Phoenix, Tucson, Las Vegas, Palm Desert, Chicago, Ocala and Lincoln, Calif. 
From the beginning, Sun City Hilton Head faced challenges that other developments did not. It was farther away from its natural market in larger cities than the western communities are and the company's name was virtually unknown here. Corporate research showed that 90 percent of Southern Californians knew Del Webb and what type of business it was in. Few here had the same response. 
In addition, the company did not sell the lots to buyers, who, in turn, would bring in their own builder and decide what to build, as was common in Carolina coastal resorts. The company sold the entire package, bringing in its own contractors to build one of 14 designs after about 90 percent of the lots in a specific neighborhood had been sold. 
Del Webb executives have now decided to allow outside contractors here.
Contributing to sluggish sales were two record floods over the last six years and a tight labor market. South Carolina generally and Beaufort County specifically have among the lowest unemployment rates in the nation. 
Mr. Hammet said even though sales had never been what corporate executives had hoped, Del Webb had been by far the largest builder in the area. 
"Del Webb will continue to be here," he said. "We will shorten the cycle of return on investment. Del Webb is becoming more sensitive to investor concerns."
Last fall, the J. F. Shea Company, a Walnut, Calif., builder, offered $1.6 billion for Del Webb. The offer was for $30 a share for Webb's common stock, or $600 million, plus the assumption of Del Webb's debt. Del Webb fought back with allegations that Shea did not have the resources to accomplish the buyout.
At the same time, Pacific Partners, a Phoenix group of investors that owned 5.5 percent of Del Webb stock, tried to get two seats on Del Webb's board. Led by a former Del Webb executive and three Phoenix business leaders, the group called Del Webb's stock performance abysmal and management salaries excessive.
The company's slate of board members prevailed by only a 5 percent margin, a message that shareholders wanted a better return. After the meeting, Shea dropped its takeover bid. 
Mr. Hammet said negotiations were under way with several companies for the 1,000 acres, some of which would likely be developed as commercial or office complexes.
"Those looking at the land have been widely celebrated for doing upscale commercial developments," he said. "We don't want strip malls."
RESIDENTS, meanwhile, generally are taking a wait-and-see attitude about the sale and how it might affect their lives and their pocketbooks.
Herbert Sirowitz, 69, a retired certified public accountant from Pittsburgh, said he was somewhat concerned about Del Webb's change in plans. 
"I understand their rationale, but I'm not pleased," he said. "It may hurt people like us who came in expecting Del Webb to develop the entire community."
There is no assurance that whoever buys the land will maintain the same standards as Del Webb, he said, and contractors who come in to build individual homes may not be made to live by the same rules and regulations that have been in effect here.
"If Del Webb's making a profit, some should go to benefit the people," he said. "There could be some controversy down the road." 
Maureen Hermiston, 63, who moved here four years ago from Boston and is now the president of the Sun City Republican Club, said she did not expect the sale to affect her in any way. She said she came for the climate and to be closer to her grandchildren.
"The amenities are as they promised," she said. "It's a lovely setting. There is no utopia anywhere."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Homes in the Del Webb Corporation's Sun City Hilton Head development, above, and the town square. (Photographs by Lynn Riddle for The New York Times) Map of South Carolina highlighting Bluffton.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (77%); TAKEOVERS (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); CITIES (73%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (69%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (60%); SPORTS (50%); SPORTS & RECREATION (50%) RETIREMENT COMMUNITIES AND ASSISTED LIVING 

COMPANY: DEL WEBB CORP (96%)

ORGANIZATION: DEL WEBB CORP 

INDUSTRY: NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (96%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (96%) SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & LAND DEVELOPMENT; 

PERSON: RIDDLE, LYN 

GEOGRAPHIC: HILTON HEAD, SC, USA (96%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (79%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (96%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) HILTON HEAD (SC); BLUFFTON (SC); SOUTH CAROLINA

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2001 



42 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 366 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL BUSINESS: DIARY; 
An 11th-Hour Checklist For Saving on Taxes

BYLINE:  By Jan M. Rosen

 BODY:
Some last-minute tax filers get so panicky that they forget to sign their returns or put a stamp on the envelope. But even less-frenzied taxpayers may overlook money-saving opportunities.
 A checklist was offered by Laurence I. Foster, a partner in Richard A. Eisner & Company, a New York accounting firm, and chairman of the committee of personal financial specialists of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. 

FILING STATUS -- "Head of household" is more advantageous than "single," and a single parent with whom a child lives may qualify, even if a divorced spouse claims a dependency exemption for the child. "Married filing jointly" has the lowest rates, and a widow or widower may claim such a status for up to two years.

DIVIDENDS -- Some fund payments are a return of capital. No tax is owed on it, so check the Form 1099 before reporting it as a dividend.

DISASTER AREAS -- If you live in a federal disaster area, like Seattle, which was hit by an earthquake, you may claim a deduction for unreimbursed losses exceeding 10 percent of your adjusted gross income plus $100. You may claim a loss that occurred in 2001 on your 2000 tax return, so you get a refund sooner.

WITHHOLDING TAX -- If your employer went out of business and did not send you a Form W-2, you should still report the income and claim the tax withheld -- you may be due a refund. Attach a copy of your last pay stub and explain that you did not receive a W-2.

CHARITABLE DEDUCTIONS -- Do not overlook old clothes, furniture and other donations to charities. They are deductible at fair market value, not your original cost.
Among common tax traps, Mr. Foster said, are these:

ERRONEOUS W-2's AND 1099'S -- Taxpayers are responsible for what they report, so if you received an incorrect Form W-2 or 1099, get a corrected one.

OVERLOOKING TAXABLE INCOME -- Unemployment compensation may be taxable, and depending on other income received, Social Security benefits may be taxable. Interest on municipal bonds from another state may be taxable in your state.
If you have filed your 2000 return and realize you fell into a trap or missed an opportunity, you can file an amended return, Form 1040X. Jan M. Rosen

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); DISASTER RELIEF (90%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (89%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); CHARITIES (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); INCOME TAX (77%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (74%); TAX LAW (73%); ACCOUNTING (71%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (70%); SINGLE PARENTS (70%); CHARITABLE GIVING (63%) TAXATION 

COMPANY: EISNERAMPER LLP (72%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2001 



43 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 2; Style Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: Last Call for Silicon Alley's Famous Wingdings 

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER 8. LEE 

 BODY:
IT will be remembered as the party when Silicon Alley danced on the lip of the volcano. Some 14 months ago, the invitations to DoubleClick's Willy Wonka-themed party, now legendary, were sent inside the wrappers of chocolate bars. Orange-skinned Oompa-Loompa bartenders served 2,000 guests at the Roxy, where purple-skinned women bopped on stage. The decor included psychedelic mushrooms, looming towers of candy and cream-filled boulders.
 That was then. Now, the frenetic socializing that distinguished Manhattan's Internet workers from their West-Coast counterparts has been downsized, like everything else about the dot-com industry. DoubleClick held an elaborate Egyptian-themed bash this year, shortly before cutting 10 percent of its staff. 
 For most companies, the era of free-flowing financing, visions and liquor that hit its peak last year has faded. Now it's pretzels instead of sushi, strictly a cash bar and an office space instead of a downtown club. 
"Sometimes you are lucky if there is any food," said Courtney Pulitzer, the host of Cocktails with Courtney, a long-running Silicon Alley networking event, attended by 600 at its peak. It now draws fewer than 100 people. 
The parties that have survived have become more low-key events, more focused and sometimes more costly to attend. Ms. Pulitzer now exacts a $25 cover charge to parties that once were free, as shrinking corporate marketing budgets have made sponsorships harder to come by. 
"Parties are alive and kicking," insisted Bernardo Joselevich, who runs Bernardo's List, a weekly e-mail listing sent to 11,000 Internet-industry workers. Started a year and a half ago, the mailing list rode the dot-com boom, and the party boom, to become a kind of social glue for Silicon Alley. "The parties have not gone south as far as the Nasdaq," he said. You just have to look harder for them.
A year ago, Bernardo's List would regularly include three or four lavish parties a night that were open to all, and up to a dozen on Thursdays, many featuring catered fare. Now the actual parties on the list are rare, buried among forums such as "Survivors: Silicon Alley," and "Your Road to Profitability." 
At one party a few weeks ago, introducing Metamorphnet.com's new Web site, the invitation noted that hors d'oeuvres were free, but it was a cash bar. That disincentive, combined with a rainy evening and a downtown location, produced a thin crowd. 
Springing up as it did overnight, with thousands of newcomers rushing to start businesses, Silicon Alley's party scene was more than a diversion; it was an effective way of doing business, events where potential financing, employees and dates could all be gathered at once. 
Events that began as intimate gatherings with a sense of camaraderie became bloated affairs, designed to serve the ends of corporate marketing, with their own professional coordinators and public relations firms. Fueled by venture capital, companies bought their way to buzz, subsidizing the bodies that came to their fetes, and to their Web sites, with millions of dollars.
Now as so many in the dot-com industry have gone to ground, the social events that survive have evolved. They tend to be selective, invitation-only, designed to introduce key players to one another. Ms. Pulitzer's latest cocktail invitation, for example, was sent out only to what she called her A-List, a group of "decision makers." 
Jason McCabe Calacanis, editor of the Silicon Alley Reporter, whose early issues were filled with party pictures in imitation of celebrity glossies, and who once gave lavish parties with sushi chefs serving in elevators, now plays host only to small gatherings for senior executives. "I don't publicize them," he said. "The networking has matured. It's elite. It's purposeful."
This shift has drawn some executives who had lost interest in the frat-like atmosphere of earlier parties. 
"I'm looking to meet the decision makers," said Susan Hoffberg, a director of marketing and business development with Arthur Andersen, at a recent Silicon Alley Reporter dinner that included a number of Internet chief executives. "They weren't there at those types of parties. Instead it was a lot of young people looking for free drinks."
Mr. Joselevich, for his part, has been encouraging readers of his list to keep their chins up. "Let's all be strong and party with what we have," he wrote not long ago. But some readers don't like the new, whistle-a-happy-tune tone. 
After the last such e-mail, Mr. Joselevich said, he received 10 times the usual number of requests to be dropped from the list.

GRAPHIC: Photo: An Oompa Loompa at your service: the legendary DoubleClick party of January 2000. (Christopher Smith for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ONLINE ADVERTISING (90%); DRINKING PLACES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); BUDGETS (74%); SPONSORSHIP (71%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (69%); TRENDS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); WEB SITES (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PARTIES (SOCIAL); COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: DOUBLECLICK INC (93%)

PERSON: LEE, JENNIFER 8 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2001 



44 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW; 
To Evaluate The Economy, Take Detroit's Temperature

BYLINE:  By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
FORGET about Microsoft, Cisco Systems and Oracle. When looking at specific companies to figure out whether the nation's economy is growing or shrinking, Detroit still offers the best approach. And the auto industry is showing surprising signs of short-term health, although executives worry that trouble may be on the way.
 While Internet and computer companies ballooned in value on Wall Street over the last decade, not one became very big as a share of the nation's economic output, which is based on sales of goods and services, not stock prices. 
 General Motors and Ford Motor each still account for more than a full percentage point of the gross domestic product, while Microsoft is about one-sixth of 1 percent -- not much more than a rounding error, by economic standards. G.M.'s sales of Chevrolet Silverado and GMC Sierra full-size pickup trucks alone, at roughly $15 billion a year, easily exceed the annual sales of Oracle or Amazon.com.
So while much of the technology sector may be heading into a slump and dragging down Wall Street with it, how is the auto industry faring? Fairly well, notwithstanding the announcement on Thursday that Delphi Automotive Systems will shrink its work force by 11,500, mainly through retirements.
The auto industry considers annual sales of 16 million to indicate a strong market. Sales dipped to an annual pace of 15.4 million in December, prompting G.M., Ford and the Chrysler unit of DaimlerChrysler to cut production sharply in the first quarter. But sales in January suggested a 17.2 million annual pace, while February came in at 17.5 million. Most automakers will not announce their March sales until Tuesday, but these appear to be strong, too, although still down 7 percent from an extraordinary burst in the same month last year.
"We were all genuinely surprised at January and February," said Dieter Zetsche, Chrysler's chief executive, in an interview. "Now, March seems like it will come in again at 17 million."
The question facing auto executives is how much longer sales can remain almost immune to economic problems elsewhere. The answer, auto executives and economists say, depends on what is causing weakness in the economy now.
If this is a traditional inventory correction, in which excess supplies of goods are sold and then economic growth resumes, the auto industry is probably in pretty good shape. Inventories have fallen sharply. Sales appear to have declined 7 percent in the first quarter, while North American production by domestic and foreign manufacturers has plunged 18 percent.
Imports have been little changed but account for only one-sixth of the market, so their effect on inventories is modest.
What worries Detroit is the possibility that the current economic weakness is more than just an inventory correction. With most people investing more and saving less, the stock market's performance may be more important to the economy and to consumer confidence -- one of the best indicators of future sales.
BUT the idea that Wall Street now plays a central role in determining consumer confidence, as opposed to traditional factors like the unemployment rate, took a hard knock last Tuesday. That was when the Conference Board said its consumer confidence index rose in the first three weeks of March, when stock market indexes were plunging.
Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, has publicly leaned toward the view that the nation's economy is in a temporary, inventory-led correction, and that sustaining consumer confidence, but not necessarily holding up the stock market, is the key to preventing a longer downturn. That is consistent with Detroit's view.
While auto industry economists still expect a slowdown later this year, the reduction in inventories that has already occurred provides some relief for auto workers, who may face fewer short-term layoffs. George Pipas, a market analyst at Ford, says the auto industry already has its biggest production cuts behind it unless sales deteriorate more than expected. With 4.7 million Americans working for automakers and their suppliers, and most earning high wages, fewer weeklong shutdowns of factories could mean more public confidence and more spending.
How much this will help the automakers' own bottom lines -- and their stock prices -- is less clear. Spring is the biggest selling season, when no automaker likes to lose market share. With more factories churning out cars, and little likelihood that sales will equal last year's torrid pace, automakers are already preparing to offer rebates and other incentives in the months ahead.

GRAPHIC: Graph shows figures for total U.S. light vehicle inventory from 2000-2001. (Source: Ward's Auto Info Bank) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); INVENTORIES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); TRENDS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); AUTOMOTIVE ELECTRONICS (77%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (77%); AUTOMAKERS (77%); PICKUP TRUCKS (75%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (75%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); LABOR FORCE (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); INTERVIEWS (66%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (92%); FORD MOTOR CO (91%); MICROSOFT CORP (58%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); DELPHI AUTOMOTIVE LLP (55%); AMAZON.COM INC (55%)

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (92%); FORDP (PAR) (91%); F (NYSE) (91%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (58%); GM (NYSE) (57%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (92%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (92%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (92%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (92%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (92%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (58%); NAICS336390 OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336330 MOTOR VEHICLE STEERING & SUSPENSION COMPONENTS (EXCEPT SPRING) MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336320 MOTOR VEHICLE ELECTRICAL & ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (55%); SIC3679 ELECTRONIC COMPONENTS, NEC (55%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (55%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (55%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: DIETER ZETSCHE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2001 



45 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 140 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS: DIARY; 
Fewer Fish in an M.I.T. Pond

BYLINE:  By Lynnley Browning

 BODY:
 Forget e-tailers gone bust and pink-slip parties. The latest sign of the new-economy crash is at the $50K Entrepreneurship Competition of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. 
Once a hot event in the venture capital world, the $50K this year has the fizz of day-old Champagne. 
 Fewer venture capitalists are participating, said Elad Gil, M.I.T. Ph.D. '01, the organizer, and those who are "seem more interested in a look around or in offering moral support" than in writing checks to student entrepreneurs. Even M.I.T.'s students are shying away -- entries plummeted to 135 teams chasing the $50,000 prize, compared with 206 last year. The winner will be announced on May 16. Jonathan Goldstein, a contest judge and a partner at TA Associates, a Boston venture capital firm, said "It's no longer a feeding frenzy." Lynnley Browning

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); NEW ECONOMY (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (88%); INTERNET RETAILING (73%); TRENDS (68%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2001 



46 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 747 words

HEADLINE: As the Market Goes, So Go the Rewards of Many Company Directors 

BYLINE:  By REED ABELSON

 BODY:
CHIEF executives of big companies may have been largely insulated from the stock market's swoon, but many outside directors have not. These board members, often paid largely in stock or stock options, are feeling shareholders' pain this year, according to an analysis by Pearl Meyer & Partners, an executive compensation consultant in New York that reviewed proxy statements at 72 of the 200 large companies it regularly surveys. 
 Directors at corporate giants like General Electric, Goldman Sachs and Compaq Computer have seen the value of their compensation fall this year, at least on paper, by tens of thousands of dollars, according to Pearl Meyer, whose estimate of a typical director's compensation includes a value placed on the stock or stock options doled out. At Compaq, for example, total compensation for a typical director declined more than $100,000, to around $250,000, as the company's shares have fallen. 
 "It's working exactly the way it is supposed to," said Nell Minow, a longtime shareholder activist who is now editor of the Corporate Library (www.thecorporatelibrary.com), a Web site on corporate governance. 
In addition to paying directors their retainers in cash or stock, many companies have moved to stock options. "Today, we are finding more and more companies adding options," said Rhoda G. Edelman, a managing director at Pearl Meyer. 
Consider Hewlett-Packard. While three-quarters of its annual $100,000 retainer has traditionally been paid in stock, according to the company's proxy statements, outside directors were also given a one-time option grant for 40,000 shares last year. Their value helped push total compensation for a typical Hewlett-Packard director to about $265,000. 
Hewlett-Packard made the awards as part of its overall effort to link pay to performance, a company spokesman said, and to remain competitive in paying directors.
Companies have long expected directors to own some shares, but the push to compensate directors with some form of stock came about over the last decade. It stemmed from a desire to align their interests with those of shareholders. "The person needs to have some skin in the game," said Donald C. Hambrick, a business professor at Columbia University. But Mr. Hambrick, for one, worried that some directors might view options as "found money" and behave differently than they would if they actually owned a significant stake in a company, especially one they bought with their own money. 
SOME companies still rely largely on cash. At Genuine Parts, the auto parts maker based in Atlanta, the directors are paid in cash -- $49,000 a year, according to Pearl Meyer. Their relatively small equity stakes put them among the lowest-paid directors of the large companies evaluated. 
The directors, all of whom own some company shares, have the option of taking their pay in stock, said Jerry Nix, the chief financial officer of Genuine Parts, and some have done so. "They're capable of making their own decision," he said. 
While some companies, like Hewlett-Packard, are increasing the amount of equity they give to directors, Ms. Edelman said compensation for directors was likely to remain stable in the coming year, at about $140,000, at the 200 companies it evaluates. Only one-fourth of the 72 companies reviewed have chosen to give directors more equity this year.
But the increase in equity as a form of compensation has led to six-figure pay packages for many board members in the last few years. A typical director at the 200 large companies can expect to receive roughly twice as much as he or she could expect in 1994, when the pay averaged $79,000, according to Pearl Meyer. 
At the high end, the figures can be stunning. Cisco Systems, for example, pays a typical director more than $650,000, virtually all in equity, according to Pearl Meyer, which estimated the equity's value at the company's stock price at the time of its annual meeting last fall. Cisco pays its directors with equity to align their interests with shareholders, a company spokesman said.
One executive whose directors are among the highest paid defended the largess. "You're not paying them for the actual time spent," he said, speaking on condition of anonymity. Directors may find themselves spending inordinate amounts of time if companies have unexpected debacles, whether a result of a failed strategy or the discovery of accounting fraud. "You're paying them for carrying the responsibility, losing a night's sleep," he said.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "A Bounty for the Board"These companies are among the most generous toward their directors. The bulk of compensation comes in the form of stock or options. VerizonCASH (Est. payment this year): 89,000STOCK (Est. payment this year)*: 162,587TOTAL (Est. payment this year): 251,587 Compaq ComputerCASH (Est. payment this year): 60,000STOCK (Est. payment this year)*: 193,750TOTAL (Est. payment this year): 253,750 PfizerCASH (Est. payment this year): 69,000STOCK (Est. payment this year)*: 188,432TOTAL (Est. payment this year): 257,432 Hewlett-PackardCASH (Est. payment this year): 30,000STOCK (Est. payment this year)*: 235,413TOTAL (Est. payment this year): 265,413 Goldman SachsCASH (Est. payment this year): 56,000STOCK (Est. payment this year)*: 255,314TOTAL (Est. payment this year): 311,314 SprintCASH (Est. payment this year): 57,500STOCK (Est. payment this year)*: 253,962TOTAL (Est. payment this year): 311,462 Morgan Stanley Dean WitterCASH (Est. payment this year): 65,500STOCK (Est. payment this year)*: 281,787TOTAL (Est. payment this year): 347,287 General ElectricCASH (Est. payment this year): 77,500STOCK (Est. payment this year)*: 325,200TOTAL (Est. payment this year): 402,700 Sun MicrosystemsCASH (Est. payment this year): 22,000STOCK (Est. payment this year)*: 468,125$STOTAL (Est. payment this year): 490,125 Cisco SystemsCASH (Est. payment this year): $32,000STOCK (Est. payment this year)*: $637,536$STOTAL (Est. payment this year): $669,536 *Value as of March 19. Includes retainer, meeting fees, committee fees and value of stock awards. $SValue as of fiscal 2000 annual meeting. (Source: Pearl Meyer & Partners)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK OPTIONS (92%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (91%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); TRENDS (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (65%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (50%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (50%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (83%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (57%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); HPQ (NYSE) (83%); GNE (PAR) (57%); GEC (LSE) (57%); GE (SWX) (57%); GE (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2001 



47 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1031 words

HEADLINE: Executive Pay: A Special Report; 
It's a Good Living, But Not Like Industry

BYLINE:  By JULIAN E. BARNES

 BODY:
ALAN GREENSPAN may deserve a fair share of the credit for an economy that lifted the fortunes of American chief executives, but he shared little of the spoils. This year he will earn $161,239.
 The slowing economy and the stock market tumble may -- or may not -- start to put the brakes on chief executives' pay. But the captains of industry still take home far more than the top managers in government, sports, academia and nonprofit organizations. 
 There is little question that government work shows the starkest imbalance between money and power. The nation's best-paid governor, George E. Pataki of New York, earns $179,000. Kofi Annan, the United Nations Secretary General, will take home $258,552 this year. And George W. Bush, America's M.B.A.-in-chief, will make $400,000.
That is double what Bill Clinton earned, but as Mr. Bush knows well, the real money is in baseball. After all, the team of which he was a part-owner, the Texas Rangers, is paying Alex Rodriguez, its new shortstop, $23 million this year.
Sports are one of the few areas in which employees make more than management. But sports executives are not hurt for cash. Joe Torre, the manager of the New York Yankees, earns $3 million a year, and his crosstown rival, Bobby Valentine of the Mets, will make $2.45 million this year. They both make more than Bud Selig, the baseball commissioner, who gets $2 million. Mr. Selig's salary is not shabby, but Vince McMahon outscores him, earning $2,250,073 last year overseeing the World Wrestling Federation and the XFL.
Given the quality of play in the XFL, it may be no surprise that Paul Tagliabue, the National Football League commissioner, earns even more -- $5 million in 1999, according to the league office. (The 2000 figure has not yet been disclosed.)
Somewhere between elected officials and sports managers are the leaders of universities, museums and foundations.
In 1999, Philippe de Montebello, director of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, made $483,479, plus $84,868 in benefits and $148,111 for expenses. Ellen V. Futter, president of the American Museum of Natural History, earned $441,959, and Paul LeClerc, president of the New York Public Library, earned $419,000, but, his spokeswoman said, that includes his $227,000 salary, $77,000 in benefits and a $115,000 housing allowance.
Susan Berresford, president of the Ford Foundation, earned $487,500 in 1999, plus $116,636 in benefits. Robert T. Coonrod, chief executive of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting, earned $151,800 in both 1999 and 2000.
Judith Rodin, president of the University of Pennsylvania, earned $603,165 in the 1998-99 academic year.
Harvard University has been silent about the salary of its newly appointed president, Lawrence H. Summers. Still, he no doubt got a raise from his salary as Treasury secretary of $161,200 and will earn more than the retiring president, Neil Rudenstine, who made $315,000 in the 1998-99 academic year -- less than Joseph B. Martin, the dean of Harvard Medical School, who made $340,000, but more than Kim B. Clark, the dean of Harvard Business School, who made $278,000.
The real money at Harvard is in managing the investments of its $19 billion endowment. Jack Meyer, president of the Harvard Management Company, earned $1,573,567 in the 1998-99 academic year. Good money, but as in baseball, it was little compared with what his sluggers make. Philip J. Dubuque, a Harvard Management vice president, earned $9,494,658, and at least four other vice presidents earned $5 million to $8.9 million, because of incentive programs.
Leaders of nonprofit advocacy organizations are not so well compensated. Carl Pope, executive director of the Sierra Club, earned $127,256 in 1999. Ira Glasser, executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union, earned $206,000. David N. O'Steen, executive director of the National Right to Life Committee, earned $96,700. The Rev. Jesse Jackson received $120,000 as head of the Rainbow/PUSH Coalition but earned a total of $430,000 thanks to speaking fees and a $5,000-a-week salary from CNN. Horace B. Deets, executive director of AARP, earned $369,000, plus $141,806 in retirement benefits. 
John Sweeney, the A.F.L.-C.I.O. president, got a $33,000 raise in January, his first since 1993. That brought his annual pay to $225,000. Mr. Sweeney said he thought that was "a pretty good salary." But it is far less than those of company chiefs he squares off against.
"It's shameful that C.E.O. pay is going through the roof despite the fact that Wall Street is sliding," Mr. Sweeney said.
He complained that the average chief executive in the United States made 400 times the pay of a manufacturing worker, while Japanese chief executives made only 11 times workers' wages. 
Thomas J. Donohue, president of the United States Chamber of Commerce, said the comparison could not be more apt. Japanese chief executives' pay is not linked to performance, so there is little incentive to take risks and Japan's economy has suffered, he said. Mr. Donohue, who serves on the compensation committee of several companies, contended that in the United States, bonuses went only to executives who performed well and that with the stock market in decline, options would be worth much less.
THE economic boom may be fading, but the heads of trade associations have benefited during its run. For many years, Jack Valenti, chief executive of the Motion Picture Association of America, was at the top of the pack. This year, Mr. Valenti will make about $1.2 million, the association said. That no longer beats Frank G. Zarb, chief executive of the National Association of Securities Dealers. In 1999, when he was also chief executive of Nasdaq, he earned $4,335,397. (The New York Stock Exchange, a private company, refused to disclose the compensation of Richard A. Grasso, its chairman -- as did Nasdaq for its new chief, Hardwick Simmons.)
Mr. Donohue says pay for the heads of trade associations like his has edged up as the work has grown more sophisticated and the lobbying requirements broader. He made made $900,000 in 1999; He makes more now, but is coy about the details: "I'll tell you I make as much or more than Valenti," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Paul Tagliabue, the commissioner of the National Football League, was paid $5 million in 1999. (Associated Press); Jesse Jackson, head of Rainbow/PUSH Coalition: $430,000. (Steve Kagan for The New York Times); Thomas Donohue, head of the Chamber of Commerce: $900,000. (Associated Press); Joe Torre, manager of the New York Yankees: $3 million. (Steve Nesius for The New York Times); Jack Valenti, head of the Motion Picture Association: $1.2 million.; Kofi Annan, the U.N. Secretary General: $258,552. (Agence France-Presse); Carl Pope, executive director of the Sierra Club: $127,256. (Associated Press); Susan Berresford, president of the Ford Foundation: $487,500. (Jack Manning/The New York Times); Philippe de Montebello, Metropolitan Museum of Art: $483,479. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Special Report 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BASEBALL (90%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (87%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (74%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); FOUNDATIONS (71%); HISTORY (71%); WRESTLING (71%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (66%); TRENDS (62%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (61%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT 

COMPANY: CORPORATION FOR PUBLIC BROADCASTING (61%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); NEW YORK YANKEES (82%); SIERRA CLUB (59%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (59%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (59%); TEXAS RANGERS (55%); NEW YORK METS (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (61%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (61%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (75%); ALAN GREENSPAN (74%); BILL CLINTON (72%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (59%); ALEX RODRIGUEZ (52%); JESSE JACKSON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2001 



48 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1531 words

HEADLINE: Executive Pay: A Special Report; 
Overseas, Salaries Are Kept Hush-Hush

BYLINE:  By ALAN COWELL

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
DAIMLERCHRYSLER will gladly tell anyone who inquires that it sold 4.7 million cars and trucks last year, employed 416,501 people in 37 countries and has 1.9 million shareholders around the world. But if a shareholder, say, asks how much the company pays its chief executive, Jurgen Schrempp, the information flow dries up.
 "We don't publish that," a company spokeswoman said. Although Americans own 17 percent of DaimlerChrysler's shares and its board members pay lip service to American corporate standards, Mr. Schrempp's total compensation -- salary, incentives and bonuses -- is secret. And it will probably remain that way. 
 That is traditional in Germany, as it is in France, Italy, Spain and most of the rest of Europe. Even as Europeans have reached around the world for investors, they have resisted pressure for greater disclosure of corporate information, including executive salaries, bonuses and share options. Britain is a notable exception. Accounting rules there require some disclosure of boardroom pay -- but no control of it by shareholders. 
European discretion has not prevented controversy. Nor has a pay scale that is modest compared with that for American executives. A shareholders group in Germany estimated that Mr. Schrempp received about $2.9 million in 1999 -- and deplored that sum as "shameless." Few were assuaged by the knowledge that Mr. Schrempp's salary was less than one-fifth the $16 million that Chrysler's chairman, Robert Eaton, was paid the year before Daimler-Benz bought his company.
Relatively modest executive pay is traditional in Europe, where business leaders have been more egalitarian and labor unions more militant. That is beginning to change, to the irritation of individual German investors who only recently began to put their money into stocks.
"The size of salaries at German public companies is peanuts compared to the U.S., anywhere between $500,000 and $2 million in the big car companies," said Daniela Bergdolt, a lawyer and shareholder activist in Munich. "But they are getting bigger with bonuses and stock options and so forth, and these variables are not disclosed. That is upsetting some investors."
Some Europeans, particularly fund managers and other institutional investors in Britain, say they do not mind the extra money paid in bonuses and options, provided that it is linked to smart management and solid gains on the stock market.
"We don't mind paying a great deal for stellar performance," said Peter Montagnon, the head of investment affairs at the Association of British Insurers. Its members hold one-fourth of the shares on the London Stock Exchange and control $1.4 trillion in assets. "We would rather have the performance and pay for it than put up with mediocrity."
BUT what if the benefits are not so obvious, and the bonuses are paid only for nimble deal making? Consider Fred Goodwin, the chief executive of the Royal Bank of Scotland, whose compensation last year zoomed to $3 million -- 250 percent more than in 1999. That included a bonus of about $1.2 million for his part in the bank's takeover of National Westminster Bank.
The increase made him the highest-paid banking chief executive in Britain, even ahead of Matthew Barrett, the chief executive of Barclays P.L.C., who was paid about $2.6 million last year in the first part of a remuneration package that could be worth $45 million over three years.
Such is the furor over the newest bonuses paid at the Royal Bank that representatives of some its largest institutional shareholders are threatening to vote out two directors who sit on the compensation committee -- Sir Iain Vallance and Sir Angus Grossart -- at the bank's annual meeting on April 11.
Many investors are particularly unhappy that Mr. Goodwin's payment came before the benefits of the National Westminster acquisition had been proved.
Still, Mr. Goodwin's paycheck was less than one-fifth the $15 million paid last year to Lawrence Fish, chief executive of the Royal Bank's Boston-based subsidiary, Citizens Financial Group.
A similar paradox emerged when the board of Vodafone awarded the chief, Chris Gent, a $15 million bonus for the acquisition last year of Mannesmann of Germany. (That deal also produced a furor in Germany over a $25 million bonus that Mannesmann paid its chief, Klaus Esser, whose avowed aim had been to keep his company independent.)
So great was the uproar over Vodafone's generosity toward Mr. Gent that the company -- the world's largest mobile phone business -- was obliged to apologize in public and promise not to do it again. It was not the first time that Mr. Gent had rued the difference between standards in the United States and those in Britain, where investors seek to tie bonuses to long-term achievements.
After he led Vodafone's $60 billion acquisition of AirTouch in 1999, Mr. Gent was asked whether he stood to make the same $300 million from stock options as AirTouch's Sam Ginn stood to reap from the deal. "Absolutely not," he replied.
OF course, part of the trans-Atlantic distinction lies in the deep cultural divide in attitudes toward success. In the United States, success stands as a beacon to the ambitious of what can be attained -- an outlook that appears to justify the kind of one-time windfall bonuses that bloat some American executive pay deals. In Europe, just as often, success breeds resentment.
That is one reason, despite moves toward more openness about corporate accounts, that individual salaries, bonuses and other perquisites are simply not disclosed in much of continental Europe. When Goran Lindahl, then chief executive of ABB, the Zurich-based engineering giant, was asked in an interview how much he earned, he declined to answer. Mr. Lindahl said he would provide a figure only when the company moved to American accounting rules -- that is, when required to do so.
In Germany, too, only the total amount of basic salary paid to an entire board of directors is routinely disclosed to shareholders. Individual amounts are not given.
The executives' reticence is related to two aspects of the German mentality, said Ms. Bergdolt, the shareholder activist in Munich. "We are not so open as Americans are about our salaries," she said in a telephone interview. "At home, even the children don't know what the father earns. And we have a stronger envy complex. In the U.S.A., if you earn a lot, you show it. In Germany, people don't show how much they earn because we are quicker to envy."
That could also be said of Britain, where the salaries of senior executives at the country's top 100 companies rose by an average of 20.4 percent last year, to around $1 million, according to New Bridge Street, a consulting firm in London. While that total is only about one-twelfth of the annual packages for the most successful American executives, the percentage increase far outstripped the national average pay gain of about 4 percent. 
Another consulting firm, Towers Perrin, said Britain's chief executives were paid 24 times the average manufacturing salary -- the highest multiple in Europe -- compared with 15 in Germany and 13 in Sweden. The average American chief executive made 475 times as much as the average blue-collar worker in 1999, according to the A.F.L.-C.I.O.
Britain has twice sought to tighten rules on executive pay. A commission led by Lord Cadbury in 1992 urged the creation of compensation committees made up of independent nonexecutive directors. Another, under Sir Richard Greenbury, the former chairman of the retailer Marks & Spencer, proposed the principle that bonuses be linked to performance over several years. The results have been ambiguous.
Compensation committees have come to be regarded as cozy clubs of a few hundred executives, serving as nonexecutive directors on one another's committees and setting one another's rewards. "There is an element of people helping each other to get the cookies out of the jar," said an investor from a leading insurer who spoke on condition of anonymity.
THE notion of performance-linked bonuses has occasionally led to lower awards for some. But it has collided with a corporate credo that pay is one area where even the largest investors should have no veto power. And the Labor government, with Prime Minister Tony Blair's pro-business policies sitting uneasily atop the party's socialist traditions, has shied from requiring shareholder approval of executive pay.
For their part, chief executives generally argue that the high risks they face merit high rewards. And companies say they need to offer executives the prospect of high income to kindle their ambitions and to prevent them from going elsewhere. That was the rationale when HSBC, the descendant of the Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation, doubled the pay of its chairman, Sir John Bond, to $2.4 million in 2000. But generosity apparently is not limited to successful executives, and that annoys investors.
When Robert Ayling quit as chief executive of British Airways last year, for instance, the company had been pushed $361 million into the red, but he left with a $3 million bonus, a lifelong pension worth almost $400,000 a year and free airline travel for him and his family.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Robert Ayling quit as chief executive of British Airways last year. Although the company was ailing, he received a $3 million bonus. (Jonathan Player for The New York Times); DaimlerChrysler declines to disclose the salary of Jurgen Schrempp, the chief executive. (Rainer Dwiotek for The New York Times); Chris Gent, Vodafone's head, received a $15 million bonus. (Reuters); Sir John Bond, HSBC's chairman, was paid $2.4 million in 2000. (Agence France-Presse); When Goran Lindahl ran ABB, he once declined to divulge his salary. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Special Report 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (94%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (92%); SHAREHOLDERS (91%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (90%); STOCK OPTIONS (89%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); TRENDS (76%); BONUS PAY (75%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (73%); MUTUAL FUNDS (73%); INSURANCE (72%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (71%); LABOR UNIONS (70%); ACCOUNTING (68%) LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: JOHN BOND (79%); FRED GOODWIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (71%) GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); SPAIN (79%); FRANCE (79%); BELGIUM (71%); CENTRAL EUROPE (71%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2001 



49 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1008 words

HEADLINE: Word for Word/Bushspeak; 
The President's Sense of Humor Has Also Been Misunderestimated

BYLINE:  By FRANK BRUNI 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
HOW do you rib a man for his failings and foibles if he spends much of his time ribbing himself? That is a question that President Bush and his aides have clearly asked and just as clearly answered, and what they have decided is that there is no armor or inoculation as effective as self-effacement.
 If you want to call him lazy, you will have to hurry and do it before he gets there first. At the Gridiron Club dinner a week ago, he dreamed aloud of cloning Vice President Dick Cheney; that way, Mr. Bush said, he would not have to do even a stitch of work himself. 
 And if you want to tease him for his tortured use of the English language, well, Mr. Bush is already on top of that as well. His speech at the annual Radio and Television Correspondents Association dinner in Washington on Thursday night steered the event's tradition of comical presidential commentary in a mischievously masochistic direction. In fact, Mr. Bush took out a copy of "George W. Bushisms" (Simon & Schuster Trade, $9.95), a collection of so-called "Accidental Wit and Wisdom of the 43rd President," and reveled in his own ruminations. 
And, true to form, he bungled his delivery (or was it some sort of ironic intention?) as he joked that he had, just hours earlier at a news conference, coined the word "misunderstand," when what he really said was "misunderestimate."
This is what else he said. FRANK BRUNI
Thank you all very much. Well, Lew Ketcham, the event's chairman , thank you very much. Laura and I are thrilled to be here. I appreciate the members of the press. I think you serve a very useful purpose, especially tonight.
As you know, we're studying safe levels for arsenic in drinking water. (laughter) To base our decision on sound science, the scientists told us we needed to test the water glasses of about 3,000 people. (laughter) Thank you for participating. (laughter)
It's good to see so many members of the Congress here. My fellow Texan, Tom DeLay, here at the head table. (Applause.) Lew asked me a little earlier if Tom ever smiled. I said, "I don't know, I've only known him nine years." (laughter)
Senator Lieberman is here. (Applause.) We all know Joe is an Orthodox Jew, so he does no work from sundown Friday until sundown Saturday. This has so impressed me, I myself am thinking of converting. (laughter) So I don't have nothing to do from sundown Saturday to sundown Friday. (laughter) 
Most of you probably didn't know that I have a new book out. Some guy put together a collection of my wit and wisdom -- or, as he calls it, my accidental wit and wisdom. (laughter) But I'm kind of proud that my words are already in book form. So like other authors, I thought I'd read from it tonight. (laughter) It's like the thoughts of Chairman Mao, only with laughs, and not in Chinese. (laughter) 
Here's one from the book -- and I actually said this. (laughter) "I know the human being and fish can coexist peacefully." (laughter) Now, that makes you stop and think. (laughter and applause) Anyone can give you a coherent sentence, but something like this takes you into an entirely new dimension. (laughter)
Here's another: "I understand small business growth; I was one." (laughter) You know, I love great literature. (laughter) 
I actually said this in New Hampshire: "I appreciate preservation. It's what you do when you run for president, you've got to preserve." (laughter) I don't have the slightest idea what I was saying there. (laughter and applause)
Or how about this one: "More and more of our imports come from overseas." (laughter)
Now, most people would say, in speaking of the economy, we ought to make the pie bigger. I, however, am on record saying, "We ought to make the pie higher." (laughter) It is a very complicated economic point I was making there. (laughter) But believe me, what this country needs is taller pie. (laughter and applause)
And how about this for foreign policy vision: "When I was coming up, it was a dangerous world and we knew exactly who the they were. It was us versus them. And it was clear who the them was." (laughter) "Today, we're not so sure who the they are, but we know they're there." (laughter and applause) 
John Ashcroft, by the way, attributes the way I talk to my religious fervor. In fact, the first time we met, he thought I was talking in tongue. (laughter) 
Then there is my most famous statement: "Rarely is the question asked, is our children learning." (laughter) Let us analyze that sentence for a moment. (laughter) If you're a stickler, you probably think the singular verb "is" should have been the plural "are." But if you read it closely, you'll see I'm using the intransitive plural subjunctive tense. (laughter) So the word "is" are correct. (laughter and applause) 
Finally, let's see you wordsmiths out there diagram this sentence I said -- this may sound a little West Texan to you, "but when I'm talking about myself and when he's talking about myself, all of us are talking about me." (laughter) 
Now, ladies and gentlemen, you have to admit, in my sentences I go where no man has gone before. (laughter) 
But in closing, the way I see it is I am a boon to the English language. I've coined new words, like "misunderstanding" and "Hispanically." (laughter) I've expanded the definition of words themselves, using "vulcanized" when I met "polarized," "Grecians" when I meant "Greeks," "inebriating" when I meant "exhilarating." (laughter) And instead of "barriers and tariffs," I said "terriers and bariffs." (laughter)
And you know what? Life goes on. (laughter) My wife and my daughters still love me. (laughter) Our military still protects our shores. (laughter) Americans still get up and go to work. (laughter) People still go out and have fun, as we're doing tonight. 
I don't think it's healthy to take yourself too seriously. But what I do take seriously is my responsibility as president to all the American people. It's the office I hold. And that is what I came tonight to tell you. 
Thank you for inviting me, and thank you for your horspitality. (laughter and applause)

GRAPHIC: Photo: The great communicatorer pleading his case in Washington. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (73%); POLITICS (73%); NEWS BRIEFS (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (64%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); JOE LIEBERMAN (57%); DICK CHENEY (57%) BRUNI, FRANK; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2001 



50 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 8; Column 4; Sports Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1247 words

HEADLINE: 2001 BASEBALL PREVIEW; 
For Rodriguez, Attitude Smooths His Transition

BYLINE:  By MURRAY CHASS 

 BODY:
Randy Velarde remembers the night in 1997 when the Seattle Mariners were in Anaheim for the start of a three-game series. His Angels were taking batting practice when a young member of the Mariners walked across to their side of the field.
 "In front of us," Velarde remembered, "he called Larry Bowa, our third base coach, aside and asked him to watch him fielding during the series to see if he saw anything that he could improve on. That just doesn't happen. I thought that was bizarre. But it shows how this guy is going through leaps and bounds to be the best he can be out there. In my opinion, if there's a guy who's worth 252, it's Alex." 
 Velarde is now the second baseman for the Texas Rangers. Alex Rodriguez is the shortstop. They are the highest-paid double-play combination in the major leagues. 
"I'm not taking any part of that," Velarde said.
That's almost true. Rodriguez is making most of it, like Hank Aaron hitting 755 of the brother-record 768 home runs hit by him and Tommie. But one of the major reasons Rodriguez, a free agent, gained his record $252 million contract was the mind-set he exhibited in seeking out Bowa in his third season in the majors.
Rodriguez never stops trying to improve. Seven years into his career and with more money guaranteed than the entire major league roster of players earned in 1984, Rodriguez keeps thinking and keeps working, taking nothing for granted, assuming nothing. He didn't achieve his playing or economic status by resting on his record.
Nor did he bring an I've-got-mine attitude with him to the Rangers.
"He likes to come out early, when I have the kids out there, and do his work," said Bucky Dent, an old shortstop himself and the Rangers' infield coach. "He likes to do a lot of early work. His work ethic has been very good."
In Seattle, Rodriguez was notorious for his diligence and extra work and attention to every detail. While teammates played computer games or cards on team flights, for example, he watched baseball videotapes.
"This guy studies the game more than anybody I've seen," Jay Buhner, a Mariners outfielder, said. "He studies his swing when he's on the airplane. He's got tapes of himself. We used to bust him all the time because he was always watching himself. When we got on the plane to go to another city, he had all his at-bats against the pitchers we'd be facing and he was figuring out what was going on. He's got little tendencies that guys do."
Why does Rodriguez consume himself with study? Why did he seek out Bowa that night in Anaheim, a coach on an opposing team?
"I have a strong need to get better," Rodriguez said one recent afternoon in Port Charlotte, Fla. "I have a monster inside of me. I'm driven. I feel Larry Bowa was one of the best fielders of all time so I felt that a second opinion never hurts from a legend like Larry. Because he's at such a good angle as the third base coach, I thought perhaps he could give me a tip or two that could enhance my game, and it did. There's a few things he saw. He wanted me to be a little more aggressive, work on my rhythm."
Rodriguez worked on his rhythm. He still works on his rhythm, and everything else. 
"He's one of the hardest workers I've ever seen," said Mike Cameron, a Seattle teammate last season. "He had it easy and still he went out and did his job every single day. When you see him doing all that stuff he doesn't have to do, it rubs off on you."
His work ethic, Rodriguez said, was acquired from his mother, Lourdes Navarro. "When our backs were against the wall," he said, "she went out and got two and sometimes three jobs to keep us above water. I was under the impression we were middle class or very high class because we had everything we ever needed. It was because of her tireless work."
Navarro raised her son by herself, and he has become an impressive young man. He is only 25 years old.
"When I met him, I thought he was a grown-up man," Cal Ripken said, recalling how they met when Rodriguez was a high school senior in Miami. "I remember shaking his hand and talking to him a little bit. I was impressed with how he handled himself, how he presented himself physically and emotionally."
Buhner said Rodriguez was "almost too perfect, very robotic, almost where he's programmed."
Edgar Martinez, his close friend and Seattle teammate, said that when Rodriguez joined the Mariners three weeks short of his 19th birthday in 1994, the players immediately saw how advanced in behavior and stature he was.
"He's very mature for his age," Martinez said. "We were able to see that from the beginning. A kid that age, they don't know exactly what they want most of the time. He knew. He knew how to listen, how to watch and learn. He knew he needed to do that."
Rodriguez already has 189 home runs and three 40-homer seasons, and he has collected four Silver Slugger awards as the best-hitting shortstop in the American League. Tom Hicks, the Rangers' owner, saw those achievements last winter, but he also saw the person. It was Hicks's view of the person that sealed the deal and sent the total of the 10-year contract soaring to $252 million.
"To get a contract like that," Johnny Oates, the Rangers' manager, said, "you've got to be able to do more than hit a baseball, field a baseball and throw a baseball. You have to have a lot more going for you."
Unlike many players who secure lucrative contracts as free agents, Rodriguez readily acknowledged that his decision to sign with the Rangers was based in large part on the money.
"Obviously I made an economical decision," he said. "That was a huge factor in my decision, but there were so many positives."
One of those positives, he said, was Hicks, the owner, who also owns the Dallas Stars, the Stanley Cup champions in 1999. The Rangers, who moved to Texas in 1972, have been to the postseason only three times and never advanced past the first round.
"I think this guy's an architect," Rodriguez said of Hicks. "He built a world champion in hockey, he's built a world championship in business and I think he'll do the same thing here."
It was obvious, Rodriguez was told, that he and Hicks impressed each other. "I don't know about me with him," he replied, "but I know he did to me. When I saw him, I thought George Steinbrenner II. This guy has the same desire and hunger. He's driven by winning. He told me: 'Hey, I already have a hockey championship. I want a baseball championship.' That kind of got my juices going."
Rodriguez forevermore will be known not by his uniform number, 3, but by 252. His new teammates, however, say the contract has not affected them.
"No one has said anything about his money, not one," Rafael Palmeiro said. "He makes a lot of money and deservedly. We just want him to play well and help us win, regardless of how much money he makes."
When the Mets ended negotiations for Rodriguez before they started, their general manager, Steve Phillips, talked about his concern that Rodriguez would create a 24-and-1 clubhouse scenario. The Rangers haven't found that.
"Not only is he one of the top two or three players in the game on the field," Rusty Greer said, "but from what I know about Alex Rodriguez in the short time I've been around him, he's a good person and a good guy in the clubhouse. For me that's almost as important as doing a good job on the field. He has fit very well into the team concept and into the chemistry of the team. He has been every bit the leader that we saw on the other side of the field the past few years."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alex Rodriguez has brought his skills and work ethic to his new team. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (94%); ATHLETES (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (65%) BASEBALL 

ORGANIZATION: SEATTLE MARINERS (93%); ANAHEIM ANGELS (84%); TEXAS RANGERS (83%) TEXAS RANGERS 

PERSON: ALEX RODRIGUEZ (92%) CHASS, MURRAY; RODRIGUEZ, ALEX 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%) WASHINGTON, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2001 



51 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1730 words

HEADLINE: Mired in Debt and Seeking a Path Out 

BYLINE:  By PETER T. KILBORN 

DATELINE: MEMPHIS 

 BODY:
In promoting a tougher bankruptcy law that President Bush could soon sign, credit card and automobile companies depict a culture of spendthrift deadbeats who are excused from their debts only to go off on another binge. But those are not the people who crowd the corridors of the Federal Bankruptcy Court in Memphis.
 Three mornings a week, lawyers, lenders and sullen debtors pour into the plastic chairs in George Stevenson's meeting room on the sixth floor of a black glass cube overlooking the Mississippi. 
 Sitting at a folding table with a computer terminal, Mr. Stevenson, a bankruptcy trustee, works with the rhythm of a clock, ticking through a thick docket of debt-payment plans for the court's three judges to approve, adjust, dismiss or schedule for trial. 
Some of the people here, like others among the more than a million nationwide who declare bankruptcy each year, build their own traps, like working the cash machines at Mississippi's neighboring casinos. In going bankrupt, they raise costs for other debtors, because lenders raise interest rates and fees to cover their losses. But many of the Americans who go bankrupt have only hard luck to blame. 
On this morning, Carl Mauk, 46, edged up to the table and steadied himself with his cane. The steroids he takes to control his severe arthritis have triggered diabetes and left his arms covered in sores. His wife, Priscilla, 42, is homebound with a heart condition.
Because of their health, the Mauks have quit jobs that together paid them more than $4,000 a month, his as head of a crew that laid water pipe for a utility and hers as a secretary. With little more than the $400 a month from Mr. Mauk's mother, who lives with them, they have fallen behind on their court-approved bankruptcy plan, the $1,800 they agreed to send Mr. Stevenson each month for disbursal to creditors. 
"Isn't it time to give up the house?" Mr. Stevenson asked. The Mauks' only measurable assets are her turquoise 1995 Toyota MR2, worth $6,000; his 1989 Volvo 740, worth $1,000; and their two-story brick house on a hill, worth $180,000. Their two mortgages, Mr. Stevenson said, come to $171,000, so by selling the house, "you might get something in the $6,000, $7,000 range."
Calmly, Mr. Mauk explained: "I just need a disability check. It's going to be in the mail." He said his former employer had delayed sending him an overdue payment. Ms. Mauk, meanwhile, is applying for a federal disability benefit that could bring in $500 a month. Rather than ask a judge to dismiss the case and compel the Mauks to sell their home, Mr. Stevenson gave them two more weeks to come up with a payment.
With the economy slowing and unemployment in cities like Memphis rising, the American Bankruptcy Institute reports that numbers of consumer bankruptcies nationwide are creeping up, too. Last year, there were 1.2 million personal bankruptcies. This year, that number is expected to rise. According to data compiled by Lundquist Consulting for banks that issue credit cards, bankruptcy filings increased 20 percent from Jan. 1 to March 3 of this year over the same period last year.
In Tennessee, the relative numbers of personal filings lead the nation. One in 43 Tennessee households filed last year, according to the institute, compared with 1 of 83 in California and 1 in 118 in both New York and Connecticut. According to the Administrative Office for the United States Courts, judges in Tennessee carry one of the heaviest bankruptcy loads in the nation.
Most of the cases come here, to United States Bankruptcy Court for the Western District of Tennessee. It is the second busiest in the country, after the Southern District of Georgia, when it comes to handling Chapter 13 cases, those in which debtors agree to pay off all or part of their debts over three to five years. 
For this reason, Tennessee is a proving ground for the principal change in the proposed bankruptcy law, now being refined in a Senate-House committee. Last year, judges here steered 73 percent of the debtors into Chapter 13, rather than into the more protective Chapter 7, which does not require people to repay their loans. Nationwide, 70 percent of all cases are filed under Chapter 7. (Business bankruptcies fall under Chapter 11.)
To the advocates of the tougher legislation, protection from bankruptcy is consistently abused. 
"Declaring bankruptcy is too easy an option for those who have the ability to pay but not the willingness," said Ken Guenther, chief executive of the Independent Community Bankers of America, an association of 5,400 banks, most of which issue credit cards. 
Among the active Chapter 13 cases here, several support Mr. Guenther's point. A random search of March filings produced the case of a 40-year-old woman who has been in and out of bankruptcy four times in the last eight years, using the courts in Atlanta and Memphis to close the gap between her meager earnings and her high living expenses. 
There was also a 62-year-old machine tool repairman who earns $36,000 a year. He and his wife had been able to carry the $177,000 mortgage on a four-bedroom house worth $185,000, but they got carried away.
The couple bought a 1998 Lincoln Navigator and a 1998 Chevrolet Blazer, incurring a debt of $48,000. They have run up $9,000 in debt for clothes and electronic goods. They bought a $10,000 woman's Rolex watch.
Neither the current law nor Congress's proposed law is likely to let them keep their property. 
The couple could file under Chapter 7 or Chapter 13. Under Chapter 7, they would stand to lose their home and cars, but most of their remaining, unsecured debt would be forgiven. Under Chapter 13, they would most likely keep their property, but depending on their income and basic living expenses, they would also commit to repaying 10 to 100 percent of the unsecured debt. Either way, the unsecured lenders -- like credit card companies and doctors' offices -- stand to lose all or a part of what they are owed. 
Some studies of bankruptcy, however, suggest that such people are in the minority. In Senate testimony in February, Randall J. Newsome, a former president of the National Conference of Bankruptcy Judges, cited a conference-sponsored national study showing that the median household income for personal bankruptcies was $21,540, about $15,000 below the national median. The study was based on 3,151 randomly selected cases filed in 1998.
Reviewing a wider sample of 5,235 cases, Mr. Newsome found that the average age of the debtors' cars was six to nine years and that 25 percent had medical debts exceeding $1,000.
"The multitude of people affected by bankruptcy laws are your lowest strata-class people, your blue-collar people and middle-class people whose companies close or size down and who can't get another job at the same salary," said Lawrence C. King, a law professor at New York University who specializes in bankruptcy law. "Something happens that throws their lives out of kilter." 
Brady C. Williamson, a lawyer in Madison, Wis., who was chairman of the nonpartisan commission that reviewed the existing law for the United States Supreme Court, said the operating premise of proponents of the new law is that the system is filled with people who are able to pay their debts and choose not to. "That," he said, "is a myth." 
In Memphis, the circumstances of people falling into bankruptcy tend to resemble the problems faced by Dimetra Howell more than those faced by owners of Lincoln Navigators. Like the Mauks, Ms. Howell fell into debt as a result of a lost job and a medical emergency.
"A lady poured hot water on my leg," said Ms. Howell, who last summer was working in a convenience store, earning $7 an hour, when a co-worker accidentally spilled a pot on her. The store covered her medical expenses, but she lost her job when her rehabilitation stretched into the fall. In January, she started a new job, paying $6 an hour, as a cashier in a supermarket. Still, Ms. Howell does not own anything of interest to a creditor, and she has fallen $3,500 behind on rent, telephone, utility and credit card bills. 
"I got an eviction notice," she said. A lawyer will be able to block the notice, but with take-home pay of $175 a week to support her two daughters, 9 and 11, Ms. Howell remains exposed to another round of bankruptcy. Under the proposed legislation, she would be unprotected if the landlord ordered her out because she is a repeat filer. 
In Memphis, many people like Ms. Howell sit on the edge because of the preponderance of low-wage service and retail jobs, most of them temporary. Mr. Stevenson said there were more than 100 temporary-help agencies in and around Memphis.
Ben G. Sissman, a lawyer who represents debtors and creditors, said Memphis "has people who are not fully employed."
"They are regular folks who just don't make enough money to live," Mr. Sissman said. "Far from abusing the economy, it's the economy abusing them." 
To cater to people who struggle to scrape by on their earnings, Tennessee has spawned a freewheeling industry of easy lending. On Union Avenue, a billboard proclaims: "Own a new car. Zero down. Credit no problem." Similar advertisements, for all manner of loans, dot the town. 
Lawyers and court officials say cases like Ms. Howell's and the Mauks' make them uneasy about the proposed bankruptcy legislation. Besides allowing landlord evictions and car repossessions of repeat filers, it would force more wage earners to file under Chapter 13. 
"I and every other bankruptcy trustee have been betrayed by the credit card industry," Mr. Stevenson said. "Trustees were never asked for input on that legislation." 
Todd J. Zywicki, a professor at the George Mason University Law School in Arlington, Va., who had a voice as an adviser to Congress, agreed that most people who file are legitimate users of the bankruptcy system. "But," he said, "there are large numbers who are not legitimate users. The bill eliminates the forms of abuse that are out there."
David S. Kennedy, chief judge of the court here, said he welcomed some proposed revisions in the law, like leaving out the names of minor children in filings and permitting the appointment of more judges.
But he added: "Some people have convinced members of Congress that fraud is just running rampant, when it is not. One doesn't need an elephant gun to do away with the relatively few bankruptcy gamers."

GRAPHIC: Photos: HARD TIMES -- Carl and Priscilla Mauk at their home in Memphis with their grandson Devin McCullar. The Mauks, who are both disabled, quit their jobs and declared bankruptcy but have fallen behind on their court-approved debt-payment plan. (Rollin A. Riggs for The New York Times)(pg. 1); George Emerson, left, and George Stevenson at Federal Bankruptcy Court in Memphis. The two lawyers administer bankruptcy reorganization plans, dealing mostly with consumer debtors. (Rollin A. Riggs for The New York Times)(pg. 18) Charts: The financial situation of the average person or household filing for Chapter 7 bankruptcy, according to one study. NET INCOME: $24,444TOTAL EXPENSES: $24,324TOTAL DEBT: $82,852NOT SECURED BY COLLATERAL -- Credit cards, medical debts: $40,654BACK TAXES, CHILD SUPPORT: $2,528SECURED BY COLLATERAL -- House or car loans: $38,760(Source: American Bankruptcy Institute)(pg. 1) "LEDGER: Where the Bankruptcies Are"Tennessee had the most personal bankruptcies per 100,000 adults in 2000. Tennessee: 1,133Alabama: 979Georgia: 979Utah: 973Nevada: 920Mississippi: 882Arkansas: 829Indiana: 824Maryland: 753Idaho: 741(Sources: American Bankruptcy Institute; Census Bureau)(pg. 18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (94%); PERSONAL DEBT (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (90%); LEGISLATION (78%); JUDGES (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); APPROVALS (74%); INTEREST RATES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); DIABETES (50%) BANKRUPTCIES; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; LAW AND LEGISLATION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT AND MONEY CARDS 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BANKRUPTCY INSTITUTE (84%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) KILBORN, PETER T; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (94%) TENNESSEE, USA (94%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) TENNESSEE; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2001 



52 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1367 words

HEADLINE: Governor Risks Injury In California Crisis 

BYLINE:  By TODD S. PURDUM

DATELINE: ANAHEIM, Calif., March 31 

 BODY:
From the moment Gray Davis became governor of the largest state two years ago, his name was on the short list of Democratic presidential prospects, if only because of California's size and his 20-point victory margin. And though he was careful to pooh-pooh the idea in displays of public modesty, Mr. Davis was hardly displeased to be mentioned in the same breath with his only predecessor to make it to the White House: Ronald Reagan.
 But the state's electricity crisis has left Mr. Davis so embattled in his own backyard that his boilerplate protests about talk of the presidency's being premature now ring painfully true. As the state's Democrats gathered for their annual convention, which began here on Friday night with a party at Disney's new California Adventure theme park, the talk was not of Mr. Davis's national dreams for 2004, but of his prospects for re-election next year. 
 The hallway chattering today went so far as to wonder whether the governor, who only last year seemed a shoo-in for a second term, might face a primary challenge from a renegade Democrat. None has yet materialized, but in her speech here today, State Controller Kathleen Connell, struggling to break out of a crowded field of candidates for mayor of Los Angeles and barred from seeking a third term next year, warned of the dangers of an incremental approach to the electricity crisis in what some heard as a direct hit at Mr. Davis, though she never mentioned his name.
"Everyone's entitled to their point of view," Mr. Davis said later, after he assured the delegates that "we will solve this problem." 
"Maybe if she's not happy with that," he added, "she can run for governor next time, after she's finished running for mayor."
Mr. Davis is the first to insist he has no time to think about Pennsylvania Avenue.
"I'm not focused on that," he said sharply in an interview last week, cutting off a reporter who asked about the presidency. "If you're sitting in my seat, that would be the last thing you'd focus on."
What would Mr. Davis tell state and national party leaders who may be inclined to gossip about his White House chances? "Godspeed," he said. "I can't tell you what's going to happen Sunday, much less in 2004. My only intention is to manage this process successfully."
That will be challenge enough. Since the state's electricity shortage reached severe levels in December, California has spent nearly $5 billion -- about half its projected budget surplus for the coming fiscal year -- buying power on behalf of near-bankrupt utilities. It has had two rounds of rolling blackouts that disabled traffic lights and elevators for hours at a time, and worse problems are foreseen for the summer. It is well on its way toward doubling its bond indebtedness to pay for power and help stabilize the utilities by buying their transmission lines.
And this week, Mr. Davis's appointees on the state Public Utilities Commission voted to raise retail electric rates as much as 46 percent for some customers, starting in May, even as the governor, who is celebrated for his micromanagement and for keeping appointees on a short leash, insisted that he had no control over the vote and was yet to be convinced of what most state politicians conceded months ago: that rate increases were needed.
"It's pretty incredible," said Gale Kaufman, a top Democratic political consultant who often works for organized labor in Sacramento. "I take my hat off to him if somehow he's able to have the public believe that somebody that they don't know anything about mysteriously raised their rates without his knowledge or approval."
Today Mr. Davis insisted that "if a rate increase becomes absolutely necessary to keep our lights on and our economy strong," he would fight to protect poor people, reward conservation and punish waste. 
That received only the most tepid applause from the delegates.
For his part, Mr. Davis's chief strategist, Garry South, resorts to a political truism, "You can't beat somebody with nobody," in assessing the governor's prospects for next year.
Mr. Davis's only declared Republican opponent is the California secretary of state, Bill Jones, now the party's sole statewide officeholder, who has $118,336 in his campaign treasury. Mr. Davis, who is perhaps the most prodigious fund-raiser in California history, has more than $26 million, and in his convention speech, the Democratic state attorney general, Bill Lockyer, listed mock Academy Awards using movie titles and predicted that Mr. Jones would be "Gone in 60 Seconds."
Other potential opponents, including the actor Arnold Schwarzenegger and William E. Simon Jr., an investor and the son of the former treasury secretary, have yet to declare their intentions, and neither has ever faced electoral politics, much less the complexity of California's often-volatile electorate.
The mere fact that the Democrats are meeting for the first time ever in Orange County, a onetime Republican stronghold that has become more and more Democratic as the Hispanic and Asian population there has increased, is proof enough of the challenges faced by the Republicans.
"Obviously if the governor had his druthers, he'd rather this electricity situation wasn't happening," Mr. South said. "Will he take a hit for it? Probably. But in 2002, people will be assessing the governor against a real opponent. Right now, he's being assessed against himself and is under heavy fire." Mr. South said it was "way too premature" to talk about whether Mr. Davis would pledge to serve out his term if re-elected.
Dan Schnur, an aide to Mr. Davis's Republican predecessor, Pete Wilson, who himself staged a resounding second-term comeback after his approval ratings plunged in the recession of the early 1990's, insisted that Mr. Davis was vulnerable.
"If you'd asked me two weeks ago, I would've said Davis is damaged goods but he's still going to be a long shot to beat," Mr. Schnur said. "But I don't believe that any more. I think this has been the worst two weeks of the crisis by some margin."
This weekend's state convention also featured appearances by the chairman of the Democratic National Committee, Terry McAuliffe, and the House minority leader, Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri. But aside from Mr. Gephardt, none of the wide range of possible presidential candidates who were invited, from former Vice President Al Gore on down, accepted.
"Because it's March, it's a little early for people to start showing their colors," said the state Democratic chairman, former State Senator Art Torres. "But we invited everybody."
Mr. Davis has just assumed the presidency of the Democratic Governors' Association. That, coupled with speculation about his presidential ambitions, makes him attractive for national party officials, who want to encourage as appealing a field of presidential contenders as possible to help build energy and raise money for the midterm elections next year.
"As someone said, there are 26 million good reasons why Gray Davis is a good candidate for president," one party official said, referring to the governor's fund-raising prowess. "If he walks out of this energy crisis showing leadership, he's got an opportunity more than anybody else to show that there are some serious differences between our party and the Bush White House."
The electricity crisis aside, there are plenty of reasons why even some of Mr. Davis's aides have long considered the presidency a long shot. Their boss, like former Gov. Mario M. Cuomo of New York, is famous for trusting only a few people and liking to sleep in his own bed, though a similar distaste for travel did not derail the candidacy of the current president.
Mr. Davis is ambitious, but cautious to a fault.
Then, too, the track record of sitting California governors who seek the White House has not been good. Mr. Reagan was out of office after two terms as governor before he ever ran for president, while Mr. Wilson and Jerry Brown each saw their own efforts fizzle.
For now, Mr. Davis has his eye squarely on his current job. Asked if he had ever met Mr. Schwarzenegger, he replied brightly: "A couple of times, actually. If he runs for governor, I'm going to star in "Terminator III."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The California Democratic chairman, Art Torres, joined Gov. Gray Davis of California at the state's annual Democratic convention in Anaheim yesterday. Any presidential ambitions harbored by Mr. Davis, right, have been eclipsed, at least for now, by the energy squeeze gripping his state. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); POWER FAILURES (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); MAYORS (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (68%); BUDGETS (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (56%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (56%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (56%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (56%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (56%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2001 



53 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1024 words

HEADLINE: In Defense of Soft Money 

BYLINE:  By Mitch McConnell; Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky, is chairman of the Senate Rules Committee.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
It now appears that among the legacies of the Bill Clinton presidency will be a "reform" of campaign financing that devastates the national political parties. The 1996 Clinton campaign's courting of illegal foreign contributions for the Democratic National Committee and the Clintons' use of the Lincoln Bedroom to entertain contributors, followed by Mr. Clinton's pardons for criminals championed by big donors to the Democrats, have cast a pall over national party committees. And all of this propelled the prohibition of soft money -- donations made to political parties and not subject to federal contribution limits -- to the top of the reform agenda.
 Earlier, the centerpiece of reform efforts had been limits on candidates' own spending. In 1997 Senators John McCain and Russ Feingold dropped these spending limits from their reform bill, along with bans on political action committees and on "bundling" -- when individuals and groups collect multiple contributions. 
 Hard money, in Washington parlance, is the funds and activities targeted to electing specific candidates to federal office. These funds are already subject to severe contribution limits, set in 1974 and never adjusted for inflation, and to requirements for disclosing the names of donors and the amounts they gave. The national parties themselves also raise money, which they need for issue advocacy, for helping state and local candidates, for paying overhead expenses like the costs of computers and lawyers (to comply with the array of election laws), and for get-out-the-vote efforts that benefit all of a party's nominees on Election Day. This "nonfederal" money is subject to regulations in the ates. But because it has often been used in ways that do help federal candidates, it has come to be called "soft money."
The Republican and Democratic National Committees, and the Republican and Democratic senatorial and congressional committees, are national in scope. Gubernatorial and state legislative elections are among the highest priorities of the national parties, so they help candidates in those races accordingly -- with funds governed under the relevant state laws and spent in consultation with state party committees. But federal candidates are a focus of the national committees, too. And with campaigns for federal offices starved for hard money by the antiquated 1974 limits, the national parties have become increasingly resourceful in utilizing soft money to fill the void in federal elections.
In recent years, the parties have used soft money to run ads defending their nominees from attacks by special interest groups and to help challengers compete against well-financed incumbents. Help from the parties often provides the only chance nonincumbent and nonmillionaire candidates have to be competitive in Congressional elections.
The McCain-Feingold bill now working its way through Congress would prohibit the national committees from raising or spending any soft money -- that is, any money not covered by federal contribution limits -- at any time for any purpose. It would also federalize campaign-related spending by state parties in even-numbered years, thus forcing even the state parties to rely on far more scarce hard money, with results that are likely to be devastating.
Even if only one federal candidate were on the ballot in a state where the chief voter interest was in the governor's race, a mayoral contest or control of the state legislature, all party voter registration and turnout activities in that state within 120 days of the election would be subject to the severe limits on contributions set by Congress -- and therefore underfunded and diminished. Special-interest group issue ads would go unanswered by the parties. Challengers, historically shunned by political action committees but boosted by parties, would be on their own. Incumbents and self-funded millionaire candidates would flourish.
Speculation rages over which party would get the greater advantage from the ban on soft money. Many Republicans, believing that liberal-leaning news outlets will favor Democrats and noting that much of the political activity of the biggest Democratic ally, the A.F.L.-C.I.O., is largely unimpeded by McCain-Feingold's provisions, fear Democrats may be the greatest beneficiary. Conversely, there is concern among some Democrats that forcing the parties to rely solely on the limited and relatively puny hard-money contributions may benefit Republicans.
One result of McCain-Feingold is certain: America loses. The parties are vital institutions in our democracy, smoothing ideological edges and promoting citizen participation. The two major parties are the big tents where multitudes of individuals and groups with narrow agendas converge to promote candidates and broad philosophies about the role of government in our society.
If special interests cannot give to parties as they have, they will use their money to influence elections in other ways: placing unlimited, unregulated and undisclosed issue advertisements; mounting their own get-out-the-vote efforts; forming their own action groups. Unrestrained by the balancing effect of parties, which bring multiple interests together, America's politics are likely to fragment. "Virtual" parties will be able to proliferate -- shadowy groups with innocuous-sounding names like the Group in Favor of Republican Majorities or the Citizens for Democrats in 2012 that will hold potentially enormous sway in a post-McCain-Feingold world where the parties are diminished for lack of money.
Under McCain-Feingold, the power of special interests will not be deterred or diminished. Their speech, political activity and right to "petition the government for a redress of grievances" (that is, to lobby) are protected by the First Amendment. Political spending will not be reduced; it just will not flow through the parties.
Do we really want the two-party system, which has served us so well, to be weakened in favor of greater power for wealthy candidates and single-issue groups? McCain-Feingold will not take any money out of politics. It just takes the parties out of politics.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Christoph Niemann) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGN FINANCE (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); POLITICS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTY DONATIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (88%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); ELECTION LAW (78%); PARDONS (71%); GOVERNORS (69%) ELECTIONS; FINANCES 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (58%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%); RUSS FEINGOLD (73%); MITCH MCCONNELL (57%) MCCONNELL, MITCH (SEN); MCCAIN, JOHN (SEN); FEINGOLD, RUSSELL D (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2001 



54 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: The Evolving Presidency; 
A Defining Test on Taxes

 BODY:
The most crucial item in President Bush's domestic agenda, his proposed $1.6 trillion tax cut, will be taken up by the Senate this week. It will actually cost closer to 50 percent more than that over the next 10 years, and the battle will be a closely fought one that will test both party loyalties and Mr. Bush's salesmanship. 
 A handful of Republican and Democratic senators are in a position to stop the tax cut cold or reshape it significantly. Among Democrats, only Senator Zell Miller of Georgia has defected from his party colleagues and said he will vote for a budget resolution that contains the Bush tax cut. Another Democrat, Senator Ben Nelson of Nebraska, may go along with Mr. Miller. 
 On the Republican side, those with expressed misgivings include Senators Lincoln Chafee of Rhode Island, James Jeffords of Vermont and John McCain of Arizona. Senator Pete Domenici, chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, continues to maintain that there are not now enough votes for the tax cut, but he is sounding more hopeful about corralling them.
The word in Washington is that over this weekend the White House and Trent Lott, the Republican leader, are furiously pummeling the G.O.P. waverers with a mixture of threats and promises to increase budget spending in the senators' favored areas -- such as education for Mr. Jeffords -- all in order to give the president a signature victory this week. This is budget politics of the baldest kind, and it is no way to do the Senate's business. Promising to increase spending in some areas is a particular travesty, since the Senate is being asked to adopt Mr. Bush's overarching $2 trillion spending plan without knowing where specifically he intends to cut spending.
Instead of the open and bipartisan process that Mr. Bush had promised to work for, the Senate is going about the budget and tax issue with maximum hurry and minimal information, debate and opportunity for amendments. Many experts have shown that there is not enough money for the tax cut and the spending programs that Americans favor. The rushed process suggests an awareness by Mr. Bush and the Republican Senate leadership that they need to pass the tax cut before Americans find out about it. The tactic worked in the more compliant House of Representatives, which last week passed its budget resolution and Mr. Bush's tax wish list.
But the Senate may be trying to reclaim its reputation as a place that challenges presidents as often as it obeys them. On Friday, a parade of Democratic senators led by Robert Byrd of West Virginia took to the floor to point out the ludicrous nature of the upcoming budget process. 
First is the fact that the resolution is going to be debated, and presumably adopted, before Mr. Bush submits his own budget on April 9. Second is the fact that there has been no consideration of the budget in the Budget Committee, because Mr. Domenici says he does not have the votes to pass a budget in any form. Third is the fact that there have been no independent estimates of the cost of Mr. Bush's proposals by the bipartisan Joint Tax Committee and the Congressional Budget Office. Republicans are asserting in response that eight years ago the Congress adopted a budget resolution before President Bill Clinton submitted his budget. But there was a lot more information about Mr. Clinton's budget at that time, and a lot more scrutiny by independent analysts.
The tax cutters know that spending details are their enemy. Mr. Bush's budget outline of a month ago had no such detail. It was filled with euphemisms about "redirected" spending and "offsets." Reports that some of these would cut programs affecting children's health and education have been denied by administration budget officials, but there has been no documentation on where precisely the cuts would fall. There have been other reports of proposed reductions in the program that pays for police officers in cities. 
But it makes no sense to ram through an unfair, unaffordable tax cut that would necessitate budget cuts when the only knowledge of the funding loss comes from scattered newspaper leaks. There is indeed no need to rush on this tax cut. A better idea would be to adopt a smaller immediate tax cut to stimulate the faltering economy, something for which there is broad bipartisan approval, and wait to see how the larger tax cut fits into Congress's spending plans on health, education and other pressing needs. That would be the fiscally prudent course, but it would not provide the political bang that Mr. Bush needs and that Senate Republicans are determined to give him. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); BUDGETS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); POLITICS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%) TAXATION; EDITORIALS; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); ROBERT BYRD (58%); PETE DOMENICI (58%); BEN NELSON (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); BLANCHE LINCOLN (58%); TRENT LOTT (58%); LINCOLN CHAFEE (57%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2001 



55 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 873 words

HEADLINE: The Evolving Presidency; 
A Bow to Political Realities

 BODY:
For the first nine weeks of George W. Bush's presidency, millions of Americans seemed to be experiencing agenda shock -- the political equivalent of sticker shock. They simply did not believe he was that conservative. Nor had they perceived him as so hostile to the government's role in conservation and workplace regulation or so determined to turn key agencies over to administrators hostile to their basic missions. Mr. Bush's response to questions and complaints had one theme. He was a leader who did not take his signal from the polls, but simply did what he thought was right for America.
 Then came week 10, a period that will be remembered as the days in which Mr. Bush discovered the complications of being president. It is one thing to dream of a new conservative hegemony and to thrill G.O.P. ideologues by out-Reaganing Ronald Reagan with a blizzard of anti-regulatory executive orders. It is easy, before a friendly crowd in Kalamazoo, Mich., to explain tax windfalls for the rich by airily asserting that "if we're going to have tax relief, everybody who pays taxes ought to get relief." 
 The problem, of course, is that sooner or later the presidential helicopter has to land again inside the Beltway. That highway is supposed to reflect some kind of enduring opinion divide between the suburban conservatives who voted for Mr. Bush, on one side, and on the other the Democrats and Republican moderates who, in combination, could hold the balance of power in Congress. The events of the last few days suggest that on a variety of issues, including the environment and campaign finance, Congress may be less out of touch than the president, and that Mr. Bush is beginning to get it. 
All this is to say that we are only now getting to the testing of George W. Bush and to seeing how he will react to the customary impediments of Washington life. What we saw in the first palmy weeks was a blend of Reaganesque ease and Bushian hyper-energy. Not since Mr. Reagan have we had a chief executive who seemed so comfortable and comforting in his public role yet so seemingly unbending in his calculations. We also saw a president in a hurry. Staff research has convinced him that chances for legislative victories tail off sharply after the first three months. 
Perhaps for that reason, Mr. Bush seems inclined to make a huge bet on a political game plan that seems daringly compact after the sprawling initiatives of the Clinton years. He is counting on an uptick in the economy in time for the midterm elections. To show his social conscience, he wants an education bill that pushes more money and accountability on to the states. To solidify his business base, he wants fewer environmental rules and more oil and gas exploration. Above all, this is a White House that wants some kind of tax cut that bears Mr. Bush's stamp rather than that of the Democrats. 
Simple game plans are fine. Presidents should concentrate on a few big things. The problem is that Congress will also concentrate on those same big things -- taxes and spending, in particular. As for the public, sometimes the polls that Mr. Bush ignores are better guides than, say, Senator Frank Murkowski, to what citizens really think about trees, air, water and oil. 
So by Thursday, Mr. Bush was recalibrating the breathtakingly open pro-wealth, pro-business bias that dominated White House actions and statements for the past two months. At a press conference, his usual paean to oil and gas drilling was modified by the observation that maybe Congress would not allow such activities in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. Mr. Bush may even want to reconsider his cure for the purported energy crisis. This, after all, is a nation that was outraged by the closed-door nature of the Clinton health initiative. How will it react when Vice President Dick Cheney and a panel dominated by pro-exploration forces emerge from behind closed doors with new plans for drilling on federal lands? 
In the coming weeks, we are likely to see more bending from Mr. Bush on another issue about which he had strong feelings. He will almost certainly have to sign the McCain-Feingold campaign legislation if it reaches his desk. We will also venture that it would be a political mistake for him to encourage Representative Tom DeLay to scuttle the strong Senate bill in the House. 
On taxes, however, Mr. Bush has yet to blink. He is still calling for his full tax cut, as outlined in the editorial below. Politically, this is a must-win situation for the president, and he will get huge credit even if victory comes by way of a tie-breaking vote from Vice President Cheney. 
But a 50-50 Senate emboldened by the McCain-Feingold fight may be thinking of new definitions of Mr. Bush's favorite word, bipartisanship. The lesson of week 10 is that Mr. Bush may have to redefine bipartisanship as something more inclusive than finding enough Democrats to pass his core proposals. We are probably at the end of the days when his reputation as a genial compromiser will allow him to put all his political effort into shoring up the populist conservative base and protecting the financial interests of the wealth wing of the G.O.P. Now it is time to deal with the rest of the American family. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); TAX LAW (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (74%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); TAX RELIEF (72%); OIL & GAS INCENTIVES (71%); OIL EXPLORATION (69%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (69%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; EDITORIALS; ENVIRONMENT; ELECTIONS; FINANCES 

COMPANY: WASHINGTON LIFE (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2001 



56 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1380 words

HEADLINE: The Nation: Not So Fast; 
Suddenly, Bush's Smooth Ride Turns Bumpy

BYLINE:  By ADAM CLYMER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
THE steamroller has stalled.
 The Senate is about to pass a bill the president does not like, written by a senator he does not like: John McCain's campaign finance legislation. The president's tax bill has run into a Democratic counter-proposal and resistance to his own claim that tax cuts in future years would cure an economic slowdown this year. Congress may reject the president's plan to drill for oil in the Arctic National Wildlife Reserve, he conceded Thursday. His faith-based charity initiative is encountering doubts from some churches. European nations are angry at the president's dismissal of the Kyoto treaty on global warming. 
 Meanwhile, national polls, while showing approval of President Bush's job performance at nearly 60 percent, also showed public disapproval creeping up from the 20's to the 30's.
None of this is fatal, of course. Presidents don't have to be invincible to succeed, and usually aren't. About this time eight years ago President Clinton's economic stimulus plan was being battered; a few months later his budget passed. Besides, Mr. Bush will probably get a tax bill enough to his liking to crow over. And if the president signs a campaign finance bill, it might be painful for him, but it will be popular. Further, his public standing is still pretty strong. 
In any case, few imagined the Bush juggernaut of the first weeks would last, not with a 50-50 Senate, which depends for its nominal Republican control on the longevity of 98-year-old Strom Thurmond. Still, Mr. Bush's new difficulties accompany a growing understanding that this is a very conservative administration.
The dawning of that perception has its comic moments, as when abortion rights advocates, environmentalists, even labor, take turns in proclaiming, like Captain Renault in Casablanca, that they are "shocked, shocked to find that there is conservatism going on in here." 
It is true that Mr. Bush ran on a platform that was a litany of conservative principles, from school vouchers to protecting "the life of the unborn." But he also insisted that he was a "compassionate conservative," who would reach across the party aisle. On the stump, voters heard a great deal about moderation and bipartisanship, very little about red-meat conservative issues. Again, when the Supreme Court effectively ended the election, Mr. Bush said in his Dec. 13 speech to the nation, "Whether you voted for me or not, I will do my best to serve your interests, and I will work to earn your respect." 
Coming from someone known for good manners and not for divisive name calling in the style of Newt Gingrich, that certainly sounded to many like a promise that he would work carefully to build consensus. But instead Mr. Bush's approach has been to avoid anything that might seem tentative, and to seize as his mandate not the popular vote but the oath of office. 
Those who had been lulled into the expectation of a centrist administration had, arguably, only themselves to blame, having ignored several clear indications of Mr. Bush's real thinking. 
First, there was his record in Texas, where labor, the environment and health care received little attention. Second, there was the fact that conservative political groups remained solidly behind him, whatever genial message he offered. And finally, those professing dismay today might have at least remembered their own campaign ads from last fall, which portrayed Mr. Bush as an enemy of the working family and the environment.
IN fact, there was enough wish-fulfillment in the left's view of Mr. Bush that it's hard to disagree with Anne Coulter, a conservative writer, who said last month that Mr. Bush had shown "how easy it is to hornswoggle liberals." 
"All you have to do is go around calling yourself nice," she said. "He just treats liberals like small children having nightmares. Darn if it didn't work." 
Mr. Bush himself could have been making a similar point March 24 when he joked at the annual Gridiron dinner in Washington that Democratic power-broker Robert S. Strauss had told him "You can fool some of the people all of the time, and those are the ones you have to concentrate on." 
Now that the scales are falling from the eyes of the innocent, the obvious question is whether the growing view of Mr. Bush as very conservative will hurt him -- and if so, how much. Obviously his managers saw that image as a negative during the campaign; otherwise they would have embraced it. It is still a problem, since the American voter generally feels more comfortable with politicians near the middle of the road, not the shoulder. But how much it may hurt is likely to depend on the economy.
"A level of strong conservatism in his policy preferences will not work substantially against him if we're in the middle of a substantially robust economy," said Norman J. Ornstein, a political scientist at the American Enterprise Institute. But if the slowdown continues "then any flaw works against him." 
Possibly the most dangerous of those flaws emerged in an ABC News/Washington Post Poll released last week: It found that 61 percent of the public thought Mr. Bush cared more about "protecting the interests of large corporations" than about those of "ordinary working people." Only 31 percent thought he cared more about workers. 
Even without a deep recession, continued Republican control of Congress is uncertain. 
The House, where the 10-vote G.O.P. majority had held so far, is inherently unstable. And in the Senate, 20 Republican seats (including Mr. Thurmond's) are up for election in 2002, compared to only 13 for the Democrats.
Republicans believe that having control of the White House, Senate and House for the first time in half a century will work in their favor. But, as one senior House Democratic aide said: "They run the whole show. Just as we lived and died with Clinton for eight years, they live and die with Bush. If Bush is for anti-environmental things, then House Republicans are. The president becomes the face of your party."
Maybe. But one tactic that served him well with the Texas legislature is also at work in Washington. This administration is not pushing a lot of bills as its own. It's a kind of stealth politics. Anti-abortion forces, for example, want a bill that would apply federal murder statutes to fetuses. No one doubts that Mr. Bush would sign the bill, but it is up to the Congressional backers and the National Right to Life Committee to get it passed, and to take all the political heat. 
MANY of Mr. Bush's most criticized and most conservative actions have been taken by executive order. Indeed, of all his decisions, the most politically damaging may be the one to reverse a Clinton administration rule reducing the amount arsenic allowed in drinking water. This, far more than changing the rules about carbon dioxide in the air or ergonomic standards in the workplace, is something everyone can understand. Arsenic is a poison, and it's easy to make a campaign ad that serves, as Stan Greenberg, a Democratic pollster, put it, as "an exclamation point for a cascade of decisions."
In the Senate, Mr. Bush has a different problem. There, he can either stand on principle and sometimes lose, or he can craft compromises, as he often, and adroitly, did with the Texas legislature.
Thus far, the administration has sent mixed signals. On his education plan, the administration has already hinted that it won't insist on vouchers. On taxes, however, Mr. Bush he repeatedly said that $1.6 billion in cuts over 10 years is "just right." 
Even if Mr. Bush reveals himself to be a political realist, happy to take a half-loaf over the next three years, it is unlikely this White House will face widespread disaffection from true believers on the right. David Keene, head of the American Conservative Union, said the once-impatient conservative movement had matured. The style and genuine conservatism of this administration may have spurred that change. 
In the administration of President Bush's father, Mr. Keene said, "Conservatives were treated as if they were in the stands," like home team fans expected to cheer. Now he said, through appointments and consultations, "Conservatives are part of the team. If you're part of the team you tolerate mistakes or failures more than you do as a fan."

CORRECTION-DATE: April 8, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about political opposition to the Bush administration misspelled the first name of one of the president's supporters, a conservative writer. She is Ann Coulter, not Anne.

GRAPHIC: Photo (Justin Lane for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); RELIGION (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); POLITICS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); APPROVALS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); TAX INCENTIVES (77%); BUDGETS (77%); TAX RELIEF (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (75%); CLIMATE CHANGE (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); GLOBAL WARMING (70%); PHILANTHROPY (70%); CHARITIES (70%); WILDLIFE (70%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (66%); ABORTION (62%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (50%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; WEATHER; PHILANTHROPY; RELIGION AND CHURCHES 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%); JOHN MCCAIN (73%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%) CLYMER, ADAM; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); ARCTIC (90%); EUROPE (79%) ALASKA; ARCTIC NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2001 



57 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1282 words

HEADLINE: Bush Angers Europe by Eroding Pact on Warming 

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, March 31 

 BODY:
European leaders frequently bristle about American behavior, but President Bush's abrupt decision this week to abandon a treaty on global warming has provoked even more than the usual level of anger and frustration. 
 "Irresponsible," "arrogant," even "sabotage" are just a few of the charges that Europeans have leveled at Mr. Bush since he announced his refusal to follow through on the treaty, the Kyoto Protocol. And European Union representatives will take their case in favor of the accord to Washington on Monday, though their arguments are not expected to prevail. 
 The response is so intense in part because the decision has aggravated a mixture of grudges that have gnawed at Europeans for years. 
They are angry that the United States appears oblivious to widespread environmental concerns across most of Europe.
They are frustrated that the United States, by virtue of its size, can undermine a treaty that was negotiated by more than 100 countries.
Most of all, they are depressed that there is not much they can do about it. 
The United States produces about 25 percent of the gases associated with global warming, and its refusal to meet goals set by Kyoto to reduce those emissions makes it difficult for competitors to stick with their goals. 
"To suggest scrapping Kyoto and making a new agreement with more countries involved simply reflects a lack of understanding of political realities," said Margot Wallstrom, Europe's commissioner for environmental affairs. "We could lose years of work if we were to start from scratch."
Ms. Wallstrom will lead the delegation that meets on Monday with Christie Whitman, the head of the Environmental Protection Agency. The group is also expected to include Environment Minister Kjell Larsson of Sweden, whose country currently holds the rotating European Union presidency, and representatives of Belgium, which takes over from the Swedes in July. 
The meeting is part of a diplomatic push that is also supposed to include visits to China, Russia, Iran and Japan to assess whether it would be possible to carry through on the Kyoto treaty without the United States. 
Today, environment ministers from European Union countries discussed the Bush decision at a previously scheduled meeting in Sweden, where the reaction was one of indignation. 
"Kyoto is still alive," said Mr. Larsson, who was host of the meeting in Kiruna, 60 miles north of the Arctic Circle. "No country has the right to declare Kyoto dead." 
The anger at the United States is spread evenly across Europe.
Dominique Voynet, France's minister for the environment, called Mr. Bush's decision "completely provocative and irresponsible" and warned the United States against "continuing the work of sabotage" if other countries decided to embrace the goals of the Kyoto agreement on their own. 
Le Monde, the French daily newspaper, called Mr. Bush's decision "a brutal form of unilateralism." In London, The Independent reported that "history will not judge George Bush kindly." 
When Mr. Bush met with the German Chancellor, Gerhard Schroder, in Washington on Thursday, Kyoto formed a central disagreement. "We will not do anything that harms our economy, because first things first are the people who live in America," Mr. Bush said. 
This kind of America-first sentiment prompted sharp criticism from the European Union Commission president, Romano Prodi. "If one wants to be a world leader, one must know how to look after the entire earth and not only American industry," the former Italian prime minister told La Repubblica newspaper. 
But nobody has any illusions about changing American policy, and the real question European leaders are asking is whether they can or should press ahead without America. 
"It is a catastrophe," said Gerd Billen, executive director of Germany's biggest environmental group, Naturschutzbund Deutschland, which has 350,000 members. "Everybody knows how hard it is to reach an international agreement on environmental issues like this, and this could destroy it."
Mr. Billen and other environmental leaders are pushing for a boycott against American companies, particularly oil companies that have extensive gas-station networks in Europe. 
"It would be a citizens' action, and if it is done right, it could really put pressure on the oil companies," said Alexander de Roo, deputy chairman of the European Parliament's environmental committee. "I don't think that begging will be very effective. I think they will only listen to powerful arguments."
As in many other international issues, from the decision to send peacekeeping forces to the Balkans to coordinating international currency rates, Europeans know from experience that it is difficult to accomplish anything without American collaboration. 
Under the Kyoto Protocol, which was approved in 1997 after years of negotiation, 37 other industrial countries agreed to reduce their emissions of greenhouse gases by 2012 to 5.2 percent below the levels in 1990.
But the United States is by far the biggest producer of greenhouse gases, both per capita and in total. The average American consumes twice as much energy as the average European, and the emission of greenhouse gases is also about twice as high per capita in the United States as in Europe.
If European countries press ahead with their own goal, European companies run the risk of incurring higher expenses while American companies benefit from easier rules. 
Ms. Wallstrom, the environmental commissioner, noted at a news conference in Brussels on Thursday that Europe did not want to end up rewarding the United States for its refusal to go along.
But abandoning the goals is politically treacherous, because they enjoy strong popular support in most countries. Despite the anger that many Europeans feel toward high gasoline taxes, support for environmental regulations remains much stronger than in the United States.
In the months leading up the Kyoto meetings in 1997, the European Union proposed a remarkably ambitious goal of reducing greenhouse emissions to 15 percent below the levels of 1990.
Reflecting the enormous difference in the political and social climates in the United States and Europe, European business groups merely tried to moderate those goals and many industrial associations committed themselves to steep reductions in emissions as a way to escape direct government regulation. 
Many European environmental leaders argue that Europe needs to press ahead. 
"If 55 countries representing 55 percent of worldwide CO2 emissions ratify the Kyoto protocol, then it begins to function," Mr. de Roo said.
On a broader level, many Europeans are convinced that Mr. Bush is leading the United States into greater isolation. Many commentators seized upon Mr. Bush's comment last week that he would not do anything to weaken the American economy. The announcement was front-page news across Europe, and it quickly prompted a storm of criticism.
"We are back to Ronald Reagan and America First," said Noel Mamer, a leader of the French Green party and a member of Parliament. "I think the decision is completely mad, and it is a reason for more isolation for America." 
But even some of the fiercest European critics admit that they have little leverage. In Brussels, European leaders carefully avoided making any threats and said they merely planned to "explain" their position to the Bush administration.
"The United States will probably come out of this crisis of trans-Atlantic relations as the winner," said Liberation, the left-leaning French newspaper. But, it added, "Those who spew gases run the risk of reaping, long before the climate has heated up, an explosive hostility in public opinion and diplomatic isolation." 

CORRECTION-DATE: April 2, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about European reaction to the Bush administration's stance on the Kyoto treaty to combat global warming misspelled the surname of a French member of Parliament who called the policy "completely mad." He is Noel Mamere, not Mamer.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); EMISSIONS (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%) WEATHER; GREENHOUSE EFFECT; ENVIRONMENT 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); ANDREWS, EDMUND L 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); SWEDEN (92%); FRANCE (79%); BELGIUM (79%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); CHINA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); ARCTIC (79%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2001 



58 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL 3-13

Milosevic Surrenders, Ending Standoff in Serbia
The former Yugoslav president, Slobodan Milosevic, surrendered to Serbian authorities early today and was brought to Belgrade's Central Prison, the Serbian Interior Ministry said. Negotiations with Mr. Milosevic had continued all night, both with government officials and senior members of his own Socialist Party, said the party leader, Branislav Ivkovic. 1

The Serbian government's attempts yesterday to arrest Mr. Milosevic fell apart when his personal guards fought back with unexpected force, government ministers said. 8

Report Backs Taiwan Request
A confidential review by United States naval officers has concluded that Taiwan needs a significant infusion of new weapons, including a radar system that China says it does not want Taiwan to have. 1

Kyoto Retreat Angers Europe
President Bush's abrupt decision to abandon the Kyoto Protocol treaty on global warming has provoked even more than the usual level of anger and frustration throughout Europe. 3

Warning on AIDS Drugs
Unless public health systems are strengthened in poor countries, the benefits of more AIDS drugs at lower prices could be undone by ineffective distribution or misuse, leading to the development of new strains of drug-resistant viruses, American foundations and African experts say. 10

Opponent Arrested in Ukraine
Ukrainian prosecutors said they had arrested Yulia Tymoshenko, an outspoken political opponent of President Leonid Kuchma, in a hospital ward where she was recovering from six weeks in detention. (Reuters)

NATIONAL 14-26

Many Are Mired in Debt And Seeking a Path Out
Many of the 1.2 million Americans who go bankrupt each year have only hard luck to blame, critics of credit card and automobile companies say. The industry, promoting a tougher bankruptcy law that President Bush is likely to sign, has tried to depict a culture of spendthrift deadbeats. 1

Imprisoned and Dying
Longer sentences, tough policies that keep criminals behind bars even when they are physically no longer a threat, and a quadrupling of the nation's prison population have led to an increase in the number of dying prisoners. 1

The Larry Potters of the World
A growing parade of aggrieved writers and artists have helped turn intellectual property litigation into a burgeoning cottage industry. 1

Hawaiians Oppose Army Range
An Army plan to resume live-fire training in a Hawaii valley has met fierce resistance from residents who say it threatens a cultural, historic and environmental legacy. 14

Hats Off to Hillbillies
In Pikeville, Ky., "hillbilly" is no longer a dirty word, and they are having a festival to prove it. 14

Election Outlook Shifts for Davis
California's energy crisis has shifted talk from Gov. Gray Davis's presidential candidacy chances in 2004 to his prospects for re-election next year. 16

A Painting by Numbers
The portrait of America emerging from the 2000 census is of a more ethnically and racially diverse country, with fast-growing suburbs filling with new immigrants and a continuing migration from the Frost Belt to the Sun Belt. 20

NEW YORK/REGION 27-32

The Very Rich Cut Corners During Economic Slowdown
The rich and powerful have so far had to make only small concessions in their standard of living during the economic downturn. While many have lost money in the stock market in recent months, those losses are coming out of the enormous gains they piled up in the last decade. 1

City May Lose House Seats
Despite strong population gains, New York City faces an intense fight to keep its seats in the House of Representatives as political mapmakers in Albany wrangle over new Congressional boundaries. 27

Errors in the Operating Room
When a doctor operates on the wrong part of a patient's body, the one with the scalpel is usually the last in a line of hospital workers who have contributed to the mistake. There were 28 such cases in New York State last year, up from 20 in 1999. 27

OBITUARIES 25

Eleanor Clymer
The children's book writer, who published 58 books between 1943 and 1983, was 95. Mrs. Clymer originally wanted to be a science writer, and several of her books sought to teach children about subjects like archaeology. 25

James Ailinger
A professional football player when the forward pass was still a novelty, he was 99. 25

Chess 32
Weather 33
Cong. Vote 32

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); PRISONS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (86%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); LITIGATION (77%); CLIMATE CHANGE (76%); PERSONAL DEBT (76%); AIDS & HIV (74%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (74%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (73%); DRUG RESISTANCE (73%); ANTIVIRALS (72%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (72%); CENSUS (71%); ARMED FORCES (70%); NAVIES (70%); RADAR SYSTEMS (69%); GLOBAL WARMING (68%); DRUG PRICES (67%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (67%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (65%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (64%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); YULIA TYMOSHENKO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%) HAWAII, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%) SERBIA (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); TAIWAN (93%); EUROPE (92%); UKRAINE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2001 



59 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1226 words

PERSON: Jeffrey R. Immelt 

HEADLINE: EXECUTIVE PAY; 
A Power Behind the Pay Surge

BYLINE:  By ELIZABETH STANTON

DATELINE: CHICAGO 

 BODY:
LAST November, when Jack Welch chose Jeffrey R. Immelt to be his successor as chief executive of General Electric, executive recruiters and corporate search committees from coast to coast scrambled to court the two G.E. executives who had also been in contention for the job. Few people knew where and when the two executives would land, but Robert J. Stucker knew that and more.
 Mr. Stucker, one of the country's top lawyers in the niche business of negotiating executive compensation packages, simultaneously represented both of them, W. James McNerney Jr. and Robert L. Nardelli. 
 "Neither of them knew I was representing the other," said Mr. Stucker, president of Vedder, Price, Kaufman & Kammholz, which is based here. "Once I almost called one of them by the other's name." 
Recounting the events of that harried week, Mr. Stucker said he and a six-member team of other lawyers worked 20-hour days to negotiate the two deals. One week after Mr. Welch's announcement, Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing chose Mr. McNerney as its chief executive, and the next day, Home Depot nabbed Mr. Nardelli as its chief.
Mr. Stucker, 56, who began his executive-compensation career almost 20 years ago, is like a sports agent for his executive clients, sometimes sending shock waves through the business world. Negotiating contracts, for example, often includes severance packages, and it was Mr. Stucker who counseled John R. Walter when he was he brought in as president and heir-apparent to the top job at AT&T in 1996. After barely nine months in the job, Mr. Walter left with almost $26 million in compensation. 
Mr. Stucker's co-counsel on that compensation contract was Joseph Bachelder, 68, who some experts say made executive compensation negotiations a distinct specialty -- and his trademark -- after he started working in the field in 1980.
For a while, Mr. Bachelder, who is based in New York and employs 10 lawyers who do nothing but negotiate pay, had the high end of the field mostly to himself. But in the last decade, as negotiations have become more involved, the expertise and technique of Mr. Stucker have made him a household name, too, among chief executives. 
"There are two big guns, two major players in the industry," said Gerard R. Roche, senior chairman of Heidrick & Struggles International, the executive recruiters. "We let the client decide who they want to use, and they are both high-quality people. You've got Joe in New York and Bob in Chicago, but they're both national and they both do an amazing job."
In two of the latest compensation negotiations, Mr. Stucker's firm represented Hershey Foods and Campbell Soup, and Mr. Bachelder's firm represented their incoming chief executives, Richard H. Lenny and Douglas R. Conant. Although it is common for Mr. Stucker and Mr. Bachelder to find themselves on opposite sides of negotiations, they have never met -- though they have spoken briefly by phone a few times. And while some experts say Mr. Stucker may be pushing Mr. Bachelder out from his long-held near-monopoly of the field, each man denies there is competition between them.
"Both of us have been doing this for a very long time, and there's plenty of work out there," Mr. Stucker said. "We work together on things all the time, so I guess he's doing a very good job."
Mr. Bachelder, who has conducted negotiations between executives and companies like Bank One, Gillette, Nabisco, I.B.M. and TRW, said: "There's such a huge volume, it's a good thing there are many firms in the field. We could never handle it all on our own. The more the merrier." 
John Wood, a director at SpencerStuart, an executive recruitment firm, who has worked with Mr. Stucker and Mr. Bachelder, says the two lawyers have different styles. "Bob has a very pragmatic, practical, helpful approach to taking care of both sides," he said. "And Joe is a very aggressive advocator of his client."
Whether he is churning out a pay package in 48 hours or constructing a severance clause, Mr. Stucker is praised by clients for his availability and his adamant attention to detail. "When you're working on this, you have to be available every moment of every day," he said. "You have to be completely accessible. They come to me when they are most vulnerable, and for once in their life they aren't in charge, so I can't put them on hold and say, 'Let's take care of this on Monday.' "
After graduating cum laude in 1967 from Georgetown University with an economics degree, Mr. Stucker was almost certain that he wanted to practice law. He went to the University of Chicago Law School, and, J.D. in hand, he joined Vedder, Price, Kaufman & Kammholz in 1970. The firm had only 30 lawyers at the time, though today it has more than 200. 
"In the beginning, we had one person working on executive compensation," he said. "Now it's two-thirds of the firm." 
He says his knowledge of the field keeps the calls coming from chief executives across the country. "To be effective, you have got to know the art of it," he explained. "You can do this periodically, but it's hard to advise with certainty when you're not doing it 99 percent of the time. I bring a unique perspective to the table, because I know what is being done at the front lines -- because I'm doing it."
His help can cost several hundred thousand dollars -- either a fixed fee or accumulated through hourly fees of up to $595 or a percentage of the first year's compensation.
Stockholders and others have questioned the big pay packages for company chiefs, but Mr. Stucker makes no apologies for the huge increases in the last decade. He says his clients sign the dotted line of such packages because they have shown the same qualities in the executive suite that superstar athletes show on the field or on the court. 
"To recruit that all-star ball player that's at the height of his career, with 5 to 10 years left, you have to pay them an all-star salary," he said. "If you want to compete for Michael Jordan, he's not going to come for the salary of a guy that plays only two minutes a game. The companies are hoping the executives they bring in will have the magic formula to take their company to be a super performer, and you have to pay for that."
Mr. Stucker lists high energy, visionary skills, focus and the ability to pick a winning team as qualities that shine in some of his executive star clients -- like Leo F. Mullin, chief executive of Delta Air Lines; Edward G. Harshfield, executive chairman of MFN Financial; and Richard H. Brown, chairman and chief executive of Electronic Data Systems. 
MR. STUCKER has become a star himself among his clients, who have three to six phone numbers where thay can reach him -- including at home, where they sometimes chat with his wife, Ann.
"I feel like I'm part of their family," said Mr. Nardelli, the new Home Depot chief, though he has never met Mr. Stucker face to face. Mr. Nardelli called him "a tireless worker and professional who's contemporary in his recommendations." (Home Depot has not yet disclosed Mr. Nardelli's salary.)
When Mr. Stucker finds time away from his long workdays, he likes to golf. Twenty-eight years ago, he and his wife built their home along the sixth fairway of a golf course in Glenview, a Chicago suburb. For Mr. Stucker, that is a necessary convenience when chief executives are looking for him on a Saturday afternoon.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert J. Stucker, the executive pay lawyer, says he plays golf in his free time but must be "completely accessible" to clients. (Alex Quesada for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (92%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (77%); LAWYERS (77%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (75%); SEVERANCE PAY (70%); SPORTS (68%); SPORTS & RECREATION (68%) 

COMPANY: VEDDER PRICE PC (84%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%); 3M CO (55%); HERSHEY CO (50%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%); MMM (SWX) (55%); MMM (NYSE) (55%); MMM (FRA) (55%); HSY (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS339114 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS322230 STATIONERY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (55%); SIC3843 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (55%); SIC2678 STATIONERY, TABLETS, & RELATED PRODUCTS (55%); NAICS311930 FLAVORING SYRUP & CONCENTRATE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS311911 ROASTED NUTS & PEANUT BUTTER MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (50%); SIC2066 CHOCOLATE & COCOA PRODUCTS (50%)

JACK WELCH (88%); JAMES MCNERNEY (79%); BOB NARDELLI (79%); DOUGLAS R CONANT (79%); JEFFREY IMMELT (73%); RICHARD H LENNY (58%) STUCKER, ROBERT J 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance 

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2001 



60 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1117 words

HEADLINE: New Economy; 
Musicians Press Point In Online Rift

BYLINE:  By LAURA M. HOLSON 

 BODY:
For years recording artists and the executives who promote their work have had a love-hate relationship.
 Executives at recording companies, which make billions of dollars a year distributing music on compact discs and in other formats, say their business is risky and they should be compensated for taking chances on young talent. Recording artists, for their part, have long grumbled that companies are too controlling, lining their pockets by exploiting musicians unschooled in business. 
 Now, while the debate in the music industry has focused on how recording companies should deal with the public online, the controversy has also reheated long-simmering tensions between musicians and executives. And some artists are taking advantage of the public's interest in online music rights to pursue the musicians' own agenda -- protesting what they describe as years of bad faith by the recording industry. 
A handful of recording artists, including the singer Don Henley, a former member of the band the Eagles, will be in Washington on Tuesday for Senate hearings on intellectual property rights in the online era. For Mr. Henley, these hearings are just the beginning of a campaign to influence lawmakers on the issue of artists' rights. His organization, the Recording Artists Coalition, successfully lobbied Congress last year to withdraw legislation that would have allowed recording companies to permanently own artists' master recordings. 
"Artists have been able to organize for every cause under the sun, but themselves," Mr. Henley said in an interview last week. "But things have come to a boiling point. When something as revolutionary as the Internet comes along, it allows for the discussion of other issues -- like unfair practices -- to be expanded."
Already the music industry is buzzing about a lawsuit that the rock musician Courtney Love recently filed against Vivendi Universal, demanding an end to the industrywide practice of offering only long-term contracts. Ms. Love's suit was in response to one filed last year by Vivendi, which as the owner of the Universal Music Group labels that include Geffen Records and Mercury Records is one of the largest global recording companies. Vivendi had sued Ms. Love and her band, Hole, for breach of contract, saying she tried to terminate her seven-year contract without delivering five recordings still owed to the company. Vivendi has asked for millions of dollars in damages.
Ms. Love's countersuit argues that the standard contract that artists are offered in the recording industry would be deemed unfair in other professions. She says she is also trying to expose accounting practices that she says cheat artists out of millions of dollars.
Industry analysts said such a lawsuit might not have commanded as much attention a few years ago. In fact, most previous disputes -- including one between Mr. Henley and Geffen Records -- have been settled privately, with artists renegotiating their contracts instead of going to court. 
But Ms. Love's suit comes at a time when the Napster battle has helped put the recording industry on the public relations defensive. As one record executive recently put it: "We are like tobacco companies. No one really likes us."
Industry executives say that if Ms. Love succeeds she could accomplish what the actress Olivia de Haviland did in 1945 when she sued Warner Brothers Pictures over its long-term contracts. The outcome of that suit, in which the court ruled that it was illegal to force an artist to be bound to one studio for years, was effectively the beginning of the end of the Hollywood studio system as actors were allowed to become free agents.
Vivendi Universal dismissed Ms. Love's claims, saying in court documents that she had willingly signed her contract and that her lawsuit was "on its face a bad faith, frivolous, everything-but-the-kitchen-sink attempt to attract media attention." 
Whether bad faith, righteous or on some moral middle ground, Ms. Love's effort may strike a chord with some members of the public who are beginning to demand that music companies justify their costs in the post-Napster era.
Artists' recent activism may be partly a reaction to the notion that it is the fans who are now driving the debate over music's future. Artists are speaking out now because their concerns are not being addressed, , said Jim Griffin, a former record executive who is now chief executive of Cherry Lane Digital, a digital entertainment company in Los Angeles. "An 18-year-old has more say than they do about their future."
Myles Davis, a music industry analyst at Morgan Stanley in New York, said the recording companies feel besieged. "The music industry has existed in its own world for so long," he said. "Now people are questioning, 'Why can't you just change?' I believe they are in a period of complete and utter confusion."
The Recording Industry Association of America, which represents the record companies, has embarked on a lobbying and public relations campaign to defend the industry's sullied image. "There is this perception that recording executives view artists as a commodity and are only in it for the money," said Hilary Rosen, chief executive of the association. "If we are not out there telling our story, the story gets written for us in an unflattering way."
If recording executives have an image problem now, analysts and industry experts say they have only themselves to blame. For years they have kept music fans at arm's length, leaving it to retailers to manage the customer relationships while the recording companies concentrated on promoting artists and producing discs. But all that changed when free online music started tipping the balance of power toward the listeners.
Critics say the industry is hindered by a leadership vacuum and that record executives have grown defensive -- and are unprepared to harness consumer-friendly technology and unable to articulate a vision of their business future. Right now, the recording business is about cost saving, said Michael Nathanson, a media analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company. "It's become a factory."
That is what the artists are protesting. Mr. Henley acknowledges that musicians have tried to organize before but have failed, largely because their interests are too varied. Name-brand artists may feel shackled, but garage bands may be all too happy for a chance to wear the golden handcuffs. 
"I'm old enough to know it's an uphill battle," said Mr. Henley, who is 53. "But I've never seen such hostility bordering on contempt from the highest echelons of the corporate world toward the musician. I don't know if we are going to be successful, but we are going to bring up some issues."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The singer Don Henley will be in Washington this week for Senate hearings on artists' rights, while Courtney Love is involved in a legal battle with Vivendi Universal. (Reuters)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (95%); MUSIC (92%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (92%); RECORD INDUSTRY (92%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (92%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (91%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); POP & ROCK (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); INTERNET AUDIO (77%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (77%); NEW ECONOMY (75%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (74%); INTERVIEWS (73%); BAD FAITH (73%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (69%); CONTRACTS LAW (68%); DAMAGES (68%); LOBBYING (67%); BREACH OF CONTRACT (63%) MUSIC; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; RECORDINGS (AUDIO); COPYRIGHTS 

COMPANY: VIVENDI (83%); UNIVERSAL MUSIC GROUP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: RECORDING ARTISTS COALITION 

TICKER: VIV (PAR) (83%); VIV (BIT) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (83%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (83%); SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (52%)

PERSON: HOLSON, LAURA M; HENLEY, DON 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2001 



61 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1352 words

HEADLINE: E-Commerce; 
Borderless is out; advertisers now want to know if a customer lives in Cairo, Egypt, or Cairo, Ill.

BYLINE:  By Bob Tedeschi 

 BODY:
FOR years, Internet marketers and retailers have been on a quest for so-called one-to-one marketing. That is, they want to know consumers so well that they can pitch the right product to a person the instant he shows up at a specific Web site. But that pursuit has devolved into a bushwhacking trek for executives, who are either knee-deep in customer data that they cannot process quickly, or are unable to find critical bits of information.
 One of the most basic pieces of data that Web sites often lack is a visitor's physical location. Until visitors register at the site or arrange delivery for a purchase -- or until the site's squinting employees comb through visitation logs -- companies typically have no clue whether their prospect is from South Beach or South Dakota, Normandy or Newark. And, of course, the geographic information someone enters on a registration form could be pure fiction. 
 Such fine points have not been a critical issue for most executives, who have had enough trouble just getting their sites to work, and getting to know the vagaries of Internet retailing, publishing and advertising. But for auction sites, gambling sites and others, geography is becoming increasingly important, because they must treat people from different locations differently, as is the case with the French government's barring the sale of Nazi-related items to its citizens. 
Online advertising companies, too, are increasingly desperate to use geographic targeting tools to reinforce their clients' faith in Internet marketing. In short, for a growing number of companies, this will be the year when the borderless Internet economy becomes an outmoded concept.
"Our customers told us over the past six months or so that it was an absolute requirement that we have geo-targeting," said Mark Joseph, chief technology officer for MediaPlex, an advertising company based in San Francisco. The company recently licensed software that enables it to deliver online ads that are tailored to a user's location, Mr. Joseph said. The software was created by RealMapping, an Amsterdam company.
If a hotel chain, for example, wants to display banner ads promoting a weekend special at its New York locations -- but wants to show those ads only to people in the New York metropolitan area -- the RealMapping software allows Mr. Joseph's company to do so.
Sjoerd van Gelderen, RealMapping's chief executive, said that determining a person's physical location on the Web was an arduous task. At its most basic level, that job involves mapping the roughly 1.5 billion so-called Internet Protocol, or I.P., addresses, which are assigned to computers connected directly to the Internet.
Notably, this does not include mapping the computers of individual Web surfers; otherwise, the technology companies in this category would not have survived infancy without a full-frontal attack by privacy groups. What are mapped, instead, are the server computers of Internet service providers or of employers -- the network access points through which individual users' PC's are actually connected to the Net. Mr. van Gelderen said it took 18 months for his company's staff of about 12 people to identify the I.P. addresses' physical locations, test them for accuracy and compile the information in a database. "We compare it to the human genome project," he said. "It's smaller scale, but the same type of number crunching."
RealMapping updates the database each month -- 2 percent of I.P. addresses change hands monthly -- and ships that list to its customers, who pay $2,500 to $15,000 a month to receive it. The fee, Mr. Van Gelderen said, depends on a number of factors, including whether the client wants country-specific tracking or city-specific tracking. RealMapping also charges $10,000 to $100,000 to set up the system so companies can combine the I.P. address data with their own databases.
Advertising companies have been quick to capitalize on this technology. But Web publishers are prepared to join the fray, according to David Ready, vice president for system operations at Amazing Media, which, among other activities, sells advertising technology to Web site publishers. Mr. Ready said his company, based in Fairfax, Va., had found increasing interest among publishers that want to sell and deliver their own geographically aimed ads, rather than pay an advertising network like Doubleclick or 24/7 Media to do so.
But the most fertile ground for geographic addressing services is actually outside the advertising field, according to Marie Alexander, the chief executive of Quova, one company that sells the technology. "There are a bunch of industries that haven't been able to make good use of the Internet because of the regulatory environment," said Ms. Alexander, whose company is based in Redwood City, Calif. 
Pharmaceutical companies, insurance companies, gambling operations and auction sites, among others, will be increasingly dependent on geographical technology, she said, because their industries must frequently respect national or state boundaries when they do business.
Pornography sites are also interested in the technology, said Ms. Alexander, whose technology is being licensed by at least two such companies. One of them is using the software to localize the content for viewers. "I'm not sure why, though," Ms. Alexander said. "Maybe if they know you're from Texas, they'll show a woman in a cowboy hat."
Credit card fraud has also pushed Internet businesses to look into this type of software. Internet executives say geographic focusing software is being used to identify users from regions with high instances of credit card theft. If credit cards come in from a region that has been deemed a high risk for fraud, the Web site could ask for further information to determine whether the card number is legitimate. Likewise, if the same card number is used within a few minutes by two users in different time zones, the Web site could apply greater scrutiny to the transaction.
Companies that must respect copyrights are also adopting this technology. For example, Vivendi Universal's Universal Music Group, one of the world's largest music publishers, has been using technology to detect a user's location since the middle of last year. Because distribution rights vary from nation to nation, depending on the deal a music publisher strikes with an artist, Universal was unable to offer digital downloads of its music without a mechanism to block downloads to people in certain countries.
Now, using technology from two companies -- Digital Envoy, in Atlanta, and Digital Island, in San Francisco -- Universal can sell music downloads through e-tailers like CDNow, TowerRecords.com and others and reduce the risk of copyright violations.
The various locator technologies are not perfect, of course, because users sometimes dial into Internet servers from remote locations. But despite such drawbacks, executives who use the technology say it is highly reliable.
Such adopters notwithstanding, many e-tailers have been slow to gravitate to location-spotting technologies. Many Web merchants have been much more concerned with cutting costs and providing easy site navigation than adopting so-called "personalization" features, which are seen more as luxuries than necessities.
Amazon.com, for instance, takes into account a customer's purchase history and location when presenting certain features, like recommended books, or when displaying its so-called Purchase Circles, which show users what people in various regions or certain companies are reading.
But for visitors who have not previously made purchases on Amazon, the site does not detect their locations and change the site accordingly, said Matt Williams, Amazon's director of community. Rather, the company is more concerned with designing the Web site so customers looking for certain products can find them on their own, without the company's needing to discern locale or language preference or other special needs as they arrive.
"It's interesting technology," Mr. Williams said. "But it's too early to say if we'd use something like that."

GRAPHIC: Photo: RealMapping says its software lets a company tailor the delivery of ads. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); DIRECT MARKETING (90%); INTERNET RETAILING (90%); RETAILERS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (89%); GEOGRAPHY (88%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); NEW ECONOMY (73%); HOTEL CHAINS (50%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (50%); NETWORK PROTOCOLS (50%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

ORGANIZATION: REALMAPPING 

PERSON: TEDESCHI, BOB 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); CAIRO, EGYPT (69%) ILLINOIS, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (91%); EGYPT (90%); FRANCE (69%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2001 



62 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 468 words

HEADLINE: MediaTalk; 
New Data to Show Drop In Minority Journalists

BYLINE:  By FELICITY BARRINGER 

 BODY:
For 23 years, the American Society of Newspaper Editors has kept a count of the growing numbers of black, Hispanic, Asian and American Indian journalists in the profession, with the intention of increasing those numbers. Now, for the first time, they are declining.
 Although the precise data is not scheduled for release until tomorrow, several people who have seen the figures confirmed the decline, adding that it was not steep -- a nudge downward after several years in which the figures barely nudged upward. 
 But any decline shows that in 2000, a year of standout industry profits, the recruitment and retention of minority journalists failed to keep pace with the job growth in the industry in general. And it casts into doubt the viability even of the revised, slower timetables that call on the industry to mirror the nation's ethnic mix by 2025.
If this year's figures are anything like last year's, it will be hard to determine the exact cause of the decline, which coincided with a $5.5 million multiyear investment by two major journalism foundations to recruit, train and underwrite the salaries of young minority journalists.
The editors' group and other journalism organizations have long argued that unless the staffs of newsrooms reflect the diversity of the communities they cover, it is difficult for any newspaper to provide the fair and complete coverage deemed a requirement for journalistic and economic success. A.S.N.E.'s policy lays out its goals, saying, "At a minimum, all newspapers should employ journalists of color and every newspaper should reflect the diversity of its community."
Mark Trahant, the new chairman of the Maynard Institute for Journalism Education, said on Friday that he thought "one of the reasons the numbers are down is the complete inattention to retention." He said that during the go-go days of the dot-coms, "people who didn't feel appreciated in the newsroom or invested in the newsroom took advantage of other opportunities."
He added that the reversal "will really give us a kick in the pants. We need to work harder or be smarter about how we go about this."
Included in the numbers released a year ago was a hint of this year's trend: while minority employment in newsrooms overall rose 0.3 percentage point, to 11.85 percent, in 1999, the percentage of black journalists declined for the first time, to 5.3 percent from 5.4 percent. Last year's report showed that about 6,700 of a work force of 56,200 journalists were minorities.
Gilbert Bailon, the executive editor of The Dallas Morning News, said that increasing diversity would be difficult in a slowing economy. "Fewer jobs are open," he said. "Papers are scaling back. The highly competitive people will be hired. But the numbers -- increasing them is going to be hard."
 FELICITY BARRINGER


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); NATIVE AMERICANS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (75%); EMPLOYEE TURNOVER & RETENTION (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (66%) NEWSPAPERS; RESEARCH; MINORITIES (US); LABOR 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN SOCIETY OF NEWSPAPER EDITORS 

PERSON: BARRINGER, FELICITY 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2001 



63 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 501 words

HEADLINE: Opportunities For Workers In Technology Despite Cuts 

BYLINE:  By LAURIE J. FLYNN 

 BODY:
Despite significant layoffs and rising unemployment in the dot-com industry, nearly a half a million information technology jobs could go unfilled this year for lack of just the right candidate, a new report says.
 American companies will try to hire 900,000 information technology workers this year, but in 425,000 of those cases they simply will not find job-seekers with the needed skills and training, according to a report today by the Information Technology Association of America, an industry trade group based in Washington. The survey was based on telephone interviews with 685 managers in companies with at least 50 employees. 
 The study projects that demand for new information technology employees this year will be down 44 percent from last year, when the association found a demand for 1.6 million such workers and a shortfall of roughly 850,000. The decline in demand is attributable to the slowdown in the high-technology sector and general weakness in the economy.
But for the more nimble workers, the jobs are there. Over all in the United States, employment in information technology is up 4 percent from the year before, with 10.4 million people employed in information technology positions in 2001 compared with roughly 10 million in 2000. Those positions account for about 7 percent of total employment in the United States this year. Demand for information technology workers remains highest in the Midwest, followed by the West.
While the study showed that demand for workers remained relatively high, it also showed a major shift in the types of jobs employers are looking to fill. For example, demand for technical support personnel, long the strongest category by far, fell 65 percent, the study said.
"It's a derivative thing," said Harris N. Miller, the association's president. "When you see a slowdown of PC sales, there's a ripple effect in employment in things like tech support." Demand for technical writing workers is 73 percent lower this year from last year, while demand for digital media workers fell 62 percent. Likewise, demand for Web development workers was down 25 percent.
The emphasis this year is on the traditional information technology skills, like programming, software engineering and network design and administration. Demand for candidates in enterprise systems grew more than in any other category, for example, climbing 62 percent.
"At least for now," the report says, "the market seems to be signaling its preference for substance over flash." The changes in job categories appear to reflect an emphasis on tightening operations and justifying past technology investments, rather than staffing up in anticipation of new business.
Companies are hiring more cautiously this year as well, taking a "go-slow" approach. Mr. Harris pointed out that last year, employers showed greater willingness to consider candidates with technical training rather than general education. "This year, they're looking more to the traditional four-year college degree," he said.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Still Hiring"According to a report, despite all the layoffs at dot-com companies, there is still a shortage of qualified information technology workers this year. Chart shows information technology job demand for 2000 and 2001.(Source: Information Technology Association of America) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WORKFORCE DEMAND (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); TECHNICAL SUPPORT (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (78%); ENGINEERING (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (73%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (64%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (62%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (60%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (60%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (50%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; LABOR; SHORTAGES 

ORGANIZATION: INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (91%) INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY ASSN OF AMERICA 

PERSON: FLYNN, LAURIE J 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2001 



64 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 538 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Satellite Venture Seeks To Offer Service on Ground
New ICO Global Communications, the satellite communications venture that Craig O. McCaw rescued from bankruptcy last year, has asked the Federal Communications Commission to let it and rival companies develop land-based cellular service using radio-frequency spectrum reserved for satellite communications.
 Without such a change in the rules, New ICO said, it is unlikely that any company will be able to develop high-speed Internet access and other broadband services for the vast areas beyond the reach of cable and high-capacity land-based wireless networks. Page C2.

Allianz in Deal to Buy Dresdner
Allianz, the large German insurer, confirmed that it would buy the 80 percent of Dresdner Bank it does not own for about $20 billion. C2.

Number of Minority Journalists Falls
The number of minorities in the journalism profession dropped slightly last year, according to data to be released tomorrow. C11.

A Women's Magazine Light on Gloss
While many women's magazines show off the glossy, manicured side of womanhood, the magazine to which Rosie O'Donnell has lent her name, true to Ms. O'Donnell's style, is not about perfection. The magazine, which arrives on newsstands this week, focuses instead on the pits and crags of the American woman's life. The first issue of Rosie spends more space on politically and emotionally charged issues like gun violence, addiction and crippling illnesses than most women's magazines do in a year. C11.

Morgan Stanley to Unveil Logo
Morgan Stanley Dean Witter is unveiling a new logo today minus the words Dean Witter. The logo is intended to signal that the firm is starting fresh as a fully integrated company four years after a merger created it. C2.

Despite Cuts, Jobs Still Available
Despite significant layoffs and rising unemployment in the dot-com industry, nearly a half a million information technology jobs could go unfilled this year for lack of just the right candidate, a new report says. C8.

Satellite Company Plans Comeback
Orbcomm Global, a bankrupt satellite company that was auctioned off in March for pennies on the dollar, will try to rise again after using the bankruptcy process to shed its original equity owners and a large amount of debt. C4.

Crisis in Turkey Takes Toll on Media
The economic troubles in Turkey have hit the news media particularly hard. About 3,000 of its 12,000 workers have been laid off. C11.

Group Looks on Web's Bright Side
The Association of Internet Professionals, a nationwide organization of 11,500 individual and 160 corporate members, is trying to raise $10 million to "vigorously address the media's portrayal of the Internet industry," and to counter the gloomy themes that are dominating Internet coverage. C4.

Borders Returning to the Internet
For many Web businesses, where their customers live is becoming increasingly important, because they must treat people from different places differently. For many companies, this will be the year when the borderless online economy becomes an outdated concept. Bob Tedeschi: E-Commerce Report. C10.

Agent Joins William Morris Book Unit
The William Morris agency has named the prominent agent Suzanne Gluck to help run its literary group. C10.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "LAST WEEK"Dow industrials -- 9,878.78 up 374.00Nasdaq composite -- 1,840.26 down 88.4210-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.90% up 0.10The euro -- $0.8765 up 0.0120The dollar -- 125.52 yen up 2.92 Graph: "TODAY" shows Construction SpendingFebruary figures due at 10 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +0.4%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SATELLITE BROADCASTING (90%); SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); WOMEN (88%); BROADBAND (79%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (77%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (77%); WRITERS (73%); NEWSSTANDS (67%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (67%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: ORBCOMM INC (59%); ALLIANZ SE (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (54%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (84%)

TICKER: ORBC (NASDAQ) (59%); ALV (FRA) (58%); ALV (BIT) (58%); MS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517410 SATELLITE TELECOMMUNICATIONS (59%); SIC4899 COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES, NEC (59%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TURKEY (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2001 



65 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1076 words

HEADLINE: Patents; 
The publication of patent applications on the Web sends one inventor to the drawing board.

BYLINE:  By Sabra Chartrand 

 BODY:
IT might seem only a modest modification to a Web site. But it represents one of the most radical changes in United States patent law in a century. 
 A few weeks ago, the Patent and Trademark Office altered its Web page devoted to searching the patent database to make way for new links that permit searches of patent applications that are published 18 months after filing. So far, only 84 applications have been published, but the significance is much greater. 
 The shift is part of the 1999 American Inventors Protection Act, which decreed that any patent application filed in the United States on or after Nov. 29, 2000, would be made public in this country in 18 months. The first applications are being published now, just four months later, because their inventors filed earlier applications overseas. The months those applications have been pending in Europe or Japan count toward the 18-month American deadline.
Anyone who follows intellectual property issues will remember that in the mid-1990's, what became known as "harmonization" -- the adjustment of American patent law to conform to the systems in Europe and Japan -- was a painful, contentious process. The United States patent system had a long tradition of secrecy, and it was accepted that a patent application was confidential until the day the patent was awarded. After that, it did not matter who saw the details of an invention because the inventor owned a patent that he could defend against infringement. Suddenly, though, a new law threatened to undermine that fundamental precept of secrecy, and opponents warned that it would destabilize the entire patent process.
Proponents countered that the published applications would create a valuable archive for the government's patent examiners, and for the public. In the end, opponents could not stop the drive to bring American patent law into harmony with laws elsewhere, and the practice of early publication was adopted here.
The first application to be published before a patent is granted was number 20010000001, submitted by Lawrence Clark and James Priest for their invention titled "Solvent mixture for use in a vapor degreaser and method of cleaning an article in a vapor de-greaser utilizing said solvent."
To limit the potential for economic damage from the possibility that someone would steal an inventor's idea from his application, the law also enables inventors to claim "provisional protection." The patent and trademark agency has described that as the right to "reasonable royalties from others who make, use, sell, or import the invention during the period between the time the patent application is published and the patent is granted."
The first patent application was published on March 15, and can be viewed at www.uspto.gov/patft /index.html. The patent agency set each Thursday for publication of applications, and only a handful were published each of the first couple weeks. But the agency says that within two years it expects to publish about 3,500 applications each week. It already publishes between 2,000 and 3,000 new patents each Tuesday.
An inventor who filed an application before November 2000, when the new law took effect, is exempt from early publication. Still, those inventors can request disclosure. Though it seems counterintuitive to reveal an application's claims, inventors who are interested in the provisional protection might seek early publication.
Wayne Lin, an inventor from California and chief executive of a company called HomeGopher Inc., was the first to do just that. He filed his application in June 1999, but asked that it be issued during the first week of the new procedure. Like all published applicants, Mr. Lin is now eligible for provisional protection.
"It basically boiled down to balancing two factors," Mr. Lin's attorney, Neal Cohen, said of the decision to publish early. "One was potentially obtaining provisional rights under the new law, and the other was disclosure of what until now had been kept secret."
Mr. Lin's invention is called "systems and methods for transacting business over a global communications network such as the Internet." It includes, Mr. Cohen said, a method of setting prices for products sold on the Internet by playing a game. The higher the score achieved by a player, the lower the price he will pay for a product he wants to buy, Mr. Cohen said.
The system is already in use at Mr. Lin's company's Web site, homegopher.com, Mr. Cohen added. In addition, Mr. Lin filed an international patent application; its contents were made public 18 months after he filed his American application. The information in the international application was published 18 months later.
"So really, it was already a matter of public record," Mr. Cohen said. "We weren't threatened by the U.S. disclosure, and we were gaining provisional protection."
So now, Mr. Lin has some way to protect his invention, a strategy that other inventors may want to adopt.
"If we didn't have provisional protection, we'd have no way to enforce the patent until it was issued," Mr. Cohen said. 
"Being as HomeGopher has a business model in practice, and international publication, it's possible that someone could try to copy the invention, so it's valuable to have the provisional rights," Mr. Cohen said. "Even a few months could turn out to be very valuable."
Once Mr. Lin decided to be the first person to request early publication, his lawyer had his work cut out for him. The nascent process didn't go smoothly.
"It was extremely cumbersome," Mr. Cohen remembered. "It ended up taking me about ten or twelve hours. The patent office was very helpful and one person there helped me through step-by-step, but they weren't ready for this yet."
He said he had to download several different types of software, re-submit his client's application electronically, and battle to file drawings with incompatible software on agency scanners.
"I think I'm going to wait until they're past the guinea pig stage," Mr. Cohen said with a laugh. "I do a lot of trademark filings electronically and that system works well. But for patent filing, there still seem to be a lot of bugs, problems and inconveniences."
One of those appears on the patent agency Web site. The database has been updated to include published applications, but the frequently-asked-questions page continues to advise that "all patent applications are maintained in the strictest confidence until the patent is issued." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PATENTS (98%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (92%); PATENT LAW (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); TRADEMARK LAW (89%); TRADEMARKS (89%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); ROYALTIES (78%); CLEANERS (66%) INVENTIONS AND PATENTS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

ORGANIZATION: PATENT & TRADEMARK OFFICE (91%) PATENT AND TRADEMARK OFFICE 

PERSON: CHARTRAND, SABRA; LIN, WAYNE 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2001 



66 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 502 words

PERSON: Stanley H. Ruttenberg 

HEADLINE: Stanley H. Ruttenberg, Union Organizer, Dies at 84 

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM H. HONAN 

 BODY:
Stanley H. Ruttenberg, a union organizer and consultant for more than 40 years who was an assistant secretary of labor in the Johnson administration, died on Wednesday at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 84.
 Drawn to the trade union movement as a young man, Mr. Ruttenberg later became an economist for the A.F.L.-C.I.O. before working for the federal government. 
 W. Willard Wirtz, the secretary of labor with whom Mr. Ruttenberg served, said Mr. Ruttenberg knew how to combine fiscal policies with "a program of hands-on job training."
In the mid-1960's, Mr. Wirtz recalled, Mr. Ruttenberg helped to eliminate widespread racial discrimination in state employment offices. At that time, Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 prohibited discrimination in federally financed programs and directed government agencies to enforce that policy in the programs they administered.
The federal government at that time financed the United States Employment Service, established in 1933, but states operated the agency's local offices.
Mr. Ruttenberg, who was directing the Labor Department's enforcement of Title VI, sent 10 teams around the country to investigate nearly 50 complaints of discrimination and other suspicious situations.
While urging voluntary compliance, Mr. Ruttenberg made it clear that he was prepared to cut off employment service money to any state that refused to comply with the law. Some offices changed their practices.
In a newspaper interview at the time, Mr. Ruttenberg said change would come slowly because racial discrimination had such deep roots.
"You don't break that thing overnight," he said.
Stanley Harvey Ruttenberg was born in St. Paul , on March 19, 1917. He grew up in Nemacolin, Pa., and attended the Massanutten Military Academy in Woodstock, Va. He earned a bachelor of science degree at the University of Pittsburgh.
As a child, Mr. Ruttenberg recalled, he developed a lifetime dedication to the trade union movement when he stirred the soup pot for striking coal miners and heard them talk about their discontent.
In the 1930's, Mr. Ruttenberg was a union organizer in Cincinnati, Chicago and other Midwestern cities.
In World War II, he served as a first lieutenant in the Army on Okinawa.
Prominent as a union economist in the 1950's, Mr. Ruttenberg became head of the research department of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.
In 1963, President Lyndon B. Johnson appointed Mr. Ruttenberg as a special assistant to the secretary of labor. Five years later, the president named him to succeed Daniel Patrick Moynihan as assistant secretary of labor for manpower.
After six years in the Labor Department, Mr. Ruttenberg became a consultant, establishing himself as Stanley H. Ruttenberg & Associates in Washington, where he helped clients win federal contracts. He retired in 1982.
Mr. Ruttenberg is survived by his wife, Gertrude, of Bethesda; a daughter, Ruth Ruttenberg of Bethesda; two sons, Joel, of Katonah, N.Y., and Charles, of Rockville, Md.; four grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Stanley H. Ruttenberg (Associated Press, 1962) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); LABOR UNIONS (91%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); LEGISLATION (76%); RACE & RACISM (74%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (74%); STRIKES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); ARMIES (71%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); CIVIL RIGHTS (69%); APPOINTMENTS (68%); WORLD WAR II (68%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (68%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (65%); COAL MINING (50%) DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES EMPLOYMENT SERVICE (73%); AFL-CIO (58%)

RUTTENBERG, STANLEY H; HONAN, WILLIAM H 

GEOGRAPHIC: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (56%) MARYLAND, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (79%); OHIO, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (92%)

CATEGORY: Social Activism 

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2001 



67 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1276 words

HEADLINE: Massachusetts City Plans To Destroy Public Housing 

BYLINE:  By CAREY GOLDBERG 

DATELINE: FALL RIVER, Mass. 

 BODY:
Here, said the Commonwealth of Massachusetts to this dense old city of triple-decker tenements and textile factories by the sea. Here is $9 million to fix up a public housing project.
 No, thank you, was Mayor Edward M. Lambert Jr.'s response. We have enough public housing. We would prefer to tear the project down. 
 Tear down public housing? responded some advocates for the poor. That is no way to solve the problem. 
The problem, at its very bottom, is that an average two-bedroom apartment in and around Boston these days might rent for at least $1,500, and even in cheaper neighborhoods like Roxbury and parts of Dorchester rents are not much lower. An hour's drive south in Fall River, a two-bedroom place might rent for about $500. 
As a result, poor people increasingly squeezed out of Boston and its environs become ever more likely to seek refuge in distant suburbs or old outlying cities like Fall River, or Lynn, or New Bedford -- and they often bring needs that fall upon their new hosts. 
Boston's prices are extreme when compared with most regions', but similar pictures emerge around the country in cities, like Seattle, Chicago and Washington, that have especially prospered in the last decade, said Bruce J. Katz, director of the Brookings Institution Center on Urban and Metropolitan Policy. 
"There's a group of inner-ring suburbs and satellite cities that have not participated in the prosperity," Mr. Katz said; rather, they have ended up bearing more of the burden with fewer of the rewards. "Fall River is acting as an escape valve, but it is not benefiting; this is the problem," he said.
Mr. Katz and other experts noted that in a few other spots, including Prince George's County outside Washington, local officials have recently tried to fight what they see as an unfair load of low-income housing. In Lowell, Mass., city officials recently set a precedent for Fall River by declining state money to fix up a housing project, saying they wanted to tear it down instead.
But such moves draw fire from those who emphasize the overall shortage of affordable housing and argue that banning new units or tearing down old ones is the worst of solutions.
Here in Fall River, Mark Sullivan, director of Citizens for Citizens, a private nonprofit antipoverty agency, argued, "It makes no sense, when you have a housing crisis in the state, to knock down public housing."
Mr. Sullivan said he agreed that the situation was unfair. "They're using the smaller cities as a dumping ground to deal with a big-city problem," he said. But he differed on the solution: "The mayor wants to knock down public housing. I want these people to come with additional resources."
In Fall River, the population of poor newcomers, called by some the "Section 8 people" for the rent vouchers they get under a federal housing program, has become a political issue with racial overtones. Many of the boom refugees from Boston and other parts of the state are black and Hispanic. Fall River has long been dominated by the children of Portuguese, Italian and Irish immigrants. 
"Some people are racist here," said Bernice Edwards, a home health aide who lives in Watuppa Heights, the project the mayor wants to tear down. But Ms. Edwards, who moved here three years ago from the Dorchester section of Boston, said that overall, "I feel more comfortable here than I did in Boston." Her three children love the schools, and it is safer here, she said. Her sister has moved in nearby, too.
Still, Ms. Edwards tried to move back home to Boston a year or so ago. But she found that the $1,100 rent voucher she had would not begin to cover a three-bedroom apartment in Dorchester. So she stayed here. And now the Boston prices are even higher.
It is not that there are so very many such Boston exiles -- perhaps a few hundred a year, some estimate, in a city of more than 90,000. And it is not as if they are keeping Fall River from doing better: the city's unemployment rate has dropped from 19 percent in 1990 to about 4 percent, and new businesses, enticed by tax breaks and the ready labor pool, have been setting up shop here. The crime rate has dropped as well, though calls to the police have risen disproportionately in the housing projects. But city officials point out that despite the boom of the 1990's, a higher percentage of Fall River's residents were poor in 2000 than in 1990. 
"It's simply about fairness," Mayor Lambert said. "It's simply about the city doing what it needs to do for our poor, our disabled, our elderly, but not being asked to perform that service for other communities."
"Let them take the $9 million they want to give us for Watuppa Heights and use it to create units in Boston or in other places," he said, referring to the state government. "It's silly to put housing in communities that don't need it and don't want it."
Mayor Lambert said he was passing no judgment on the poor people arriving from Boston and elsewhere. In fact, he said, "There's a fairness issue here, too, for those families. Those families should not be displaced from their extended families in Dorchester" and other places. 
The city, which apparently needs the State Legislature's approval of its plan to tear down Watuppa Heights, recently hired a consulting firm to survey its housing. The firm found that 17.3 percent went to tenants getting government subsidies for their rent. 
That is one of the highest rates in the state. Still, many challenge Mayor Lambert's proposal. "Cities like Fall River disproportionately have to serve the needs of poor people, and there ought to be more attention to that on a broader basis," said Nicolas Retsinas, director of Harvard's Joint Center for Housing Studies. But, he added, "These kinds of actions in isolation are oblivious to what is a dearth of affordable housing, particularly in this part of the country."
In the Minneapolis area and a few other places, Mr. Katz of the Brookings Institution said, richer cities acknowledge the contributions of their poorer neighbors in the region's health by sharing some tax revenues. But such regional thinking is rare.
Earlier this year, Gov. Paul Cellucci of Massachusetts announced his administration's latest affordable-housing initiative. He proposed legislation to let nearly 1,000 acres of state land be developed; he also proposed a $460 million housing bond bill, mainly to maintain older units. 
But the governor's proposals inevitably looked puny next to the power of the market they sought to temper. In the latest city assessment of housing prices in Boston, assessors found that even in some of the city's poorest sections, like East Boston, some house values rose 50 percent last year alone. On average, house values rose 33 percent last year, and prices tended to rise across the board. Some three-family houses in lower Roxbury nearly doubled in value.
Poor people tend to be especially hurt by such price increases because they are usually renters rather than owners, and so are not insulated from the price inflation. 
Mr. Sullivan of Citizens for Citizens said that most of the poor people who come to Fall River do so "because they've been priced out of living in the city of Boston, and any opportunity to move back to Boston, they go."
In a larger sense, he said, "I guess this is a fight over the soul of Fall River" -- between those who want it to become more of a middle-class suburb and take a "not in my backyard" attitude to the poor, and those who like it as a gateway city for immigrants and the needy. 
And in an even larger sense, Mr. Sullivan said, "There's a point where nobody wants to deal with the poor, and we're just going to keep moving them."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bernice Edwards moved from Boston to Fall River, Mass. She lives in the Watuppa Heights project, which the mayor wants to tear down. (Jared Leeds for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC HOUSING (91%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (89%); CITIES (89%); POOR POPULATION (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (76%); TEXTILE MFG (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%) HOUSING; PUBLIC HOUSING 

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (54%)

PERSON: GOLDBERG, CAREY 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); NEW BEDFORD, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (98%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) MASSACHUSETTS; FALL RIVER (MASS)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2001 



68 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 876 words

HEADLINE: ON BASEBALL; 
Yanks Happy to Be Second in This Race

BYLINE:  By Murray Chass 

 BODY:
The Yankee Stadium stands were empty yesterday, but on the field, Yankees officials were leading cheers. "We're No. 2," they chanted. "We're No. 2." In a room under the stands, Manager Joe Torre was talking about the players' mental preparation for their quest for a fourth successive World Series championship, but the cheer outside didn't abate. "We're No. 2. We're No. 2.We're No. 2."
 The Yankees' figurative elation stemmed from word that their spring efforts had been a success. They had been determined not to begin the season with the highest payroll in the major leagues and they had apparently succeeded. 
 On the other coast, the Los Angeles Dodgers were elated for the same reason. They, too, had been successful in their quest for something less than No. 1 in the salary standing.
So who is entering the season No. 1 in payroll? The winner is the Boston Red Sox, with a payroll of $111.5 million. The Yankees are at $109.8 million, the Dodgers at $109 million. A more objective assessment might conclude that with three such payrolls, the No. 1 designation is certainly blurry and of little consequence.
But before the Yankees get too giddy, there could have been an April Fool's joke in there. When the labor relations office of Major League Baseball computes opening-day payrolls, the Yankees may be No. 1, ahead of the Red Sox. The salary of Boston's Manny Ramirez has been devalued because part of it is deferred with virtually no interest. The reduced Ramirez figure for this season could allow the Red Sox to slip behind the Yankees.
Fortunately, the games the teams will play on the field this season will not be so complex.
Before these three teams play a game, though, couple of points should be made. Despite the Red Sox's apparent No. 1 payroll, it is the Dodgers' average salary that is the highest. That's because their payroll includes 29 players, 4 of them on the disabled list, compared with 31 for the Yankees and 32 for the Red Sox.
And then there are the increases in the three payrolls. The Red Sox have by far the largest, a whopping 43 percent. And then there are the increases in the three payrolls. The Red Sox have by far the largest, a whopping 43 percent over their opening-day payroll of $77.9 million a year ago. The Dodgers are up 24 percent and the Yankees nearly 19 percent over their major league-high $92.5 million a year ago. The Yankees finished the season with a $113 million payroll, a result of all the roster changes made during the season.
The Yankees and the Dodgers worked hard to avoid the dreaded No. 1 spot this season. On the same day last week, the Yankees traded outfielder Glenallen Hill and his $1.5 million salary, only to have the Dodgers release pitcher Ramon Martinez in time to save $1.1 million.
Earlier in spring training, when the Dodgers were trying to trade outfielder Gary Sheffield, though not for economic reasons, the Yankees were debating whether they should get involved. If they traded some prospects for Sheffield, their payroll would soar by nearly $10 million, the same amount by which the Dodgers' payroll would plummet.
Aware of that potential difference, the Yankees were prepared to insist that in return for Sheffield the Dodgers take players whose combined salaries were equal to his.
Coincidentally, the highest-paid players for the Yankees and the Dodgers open the season on the disabled list. Shortstop Derek Jeter has a strained quadriceps and pitcher Kevin Brown, who had been scheduled to pitch today, has a strained Achilles' tendon.
Alex Rodriguez, the highest-paid player of all, played in the season opener yesterday. His mixed performance produced a new scouting report on him: good hit, bad feet.
Playing in Puerto Rico for Texas against Toronto, Rodriguez singled in his first two times at bat, getting the first hit and scoring the first run of the season. But he bounced a throw past first base for an error and fell twice in trying to make plays that should have been outs.
The $252 million man slipped and fell in the first instance, then fell on his face in the second instance when a cleat on his right shoe got caught in the shoelace of his left shoe. The shoelace trick was one that will surely be shown on television highlights and is one Rodriguez certainly did not intend to demonstrate in his Rangers debut.
President Bush was not at the game to see the new player play for his old team. An erroneous report earlier in the spring said Bush would be there. But he is scheduled to attend the home opener at Miller Park, the Milwaukee Brewers' new stadium on Friday night, which is only fitting.
Milwaukee is the home of Commissioner Bud Selig, who owned the Brewers before he became commissioner. It was Selig who started Bush on his path to becoming president.
Bush, who was managing partner of the Rangers from 1989 to 1994, would rather have become baseball commissioner than president, but Selig, the interim commissioner at the time, wasn't going anywhere and did not send the signal Bush was waiting for. Bush finally decided to abandon the idea and ran for governor of Texas instead.
Given the number of baseball functions Bush is having at the White House, it's obvious you can take the boy out of baseball, but you can't take baseball out of the boy.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alex Rodriguez had two hits in his debut with the Texas Rangers, but made an error and fell twice in the field. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (76%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (69%) BASEBALL; WAGES AND SALARIES 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); BOSTON RED SOX (83%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (83%); TEXAS RANGERS (59%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (54%) BOSTON RED SOX; NEW YORK YANKEES 

PERSON: ALEX RODRIGUEZ (57%) CHASS, MURRAY 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (87%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (87%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2001 



69 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 478 words

HEADLINE: Despite More Cars, Miles Fall For the First Time in 20 Years 

BYLINE:  By MATTHEW L. WALD 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 1 

 BODY:
For the first time in 20 years, the number of miles traveled on the nation's streets and highways declined, to 2.688 trillion in 2000 from 2.691 trillion the year before, even as the numbers of people and vehicles continued to climb.
 At the same time, the number of deaths per 100 million miles rose to 1.6, from 1.5, according to preliminary statistics from the Department of Transportation. 
 Previous year-to-year declines in total miles traveled by vehicles, in 1974, 1979, 1980 and 1981, signaled economic recessions. This time economists and transportation experts said high fuel prices were the major reason for the decline. 
The decline occurred in the second half of 2000 and got steeper as the year went on; according to the agency's figures, mileage in December was down 5.5 percent. The figures, still preliminary, are collected from about 4,000 places around the nation.
For the year as a whole the drop was modest, just 0.1 percent, but it contrasts sharply with the rest of the 1990's. The 1999 total was 2.5 percent ahead of 1998's. And from 1981 to 1999, the number of miles traveled each year was up 73.6 percent. 
The Transportation Department numbers do not differentiate among commercial and noncommercial traffic. But the American Trucking Associations, a trade group, contends that the number of miles traveled by trucks was roughly the same in 2000 as in 1999. Diesel prices rose sharply, but trucking mileage is determined mostly by the economy, not by fuel prices, experts say.
Higher gasoline prices did not stop people from buying cars. According to the Transportation Department, the number of registered vehicles rose by 4.61 million in 2000, about twice as fast as the human population, to 217.3 million. 
But growth in the number of cars and trucks may not mean so much anymore, some experts say. Population growth used to drive the growth in vehicle miles traveled, said Hal Harvey, the executive director of the Energy Foundation, a nonprofit group in San Francisco that gives grants to study energy problems.
Mr. Harvey said much of the growth in the last 20 years occurred because "every family got a second car." But now, he said, almost everyone has a car, and "if you go from one vehicle per capita to two vehicles per capita you don't increase your vehicle miles traveled." 
The decline in miles driven was a surprise to Jerry Cheske, a spokesman for AAA. "We were operating on the premise that last year motorists, because of the economy, were pretty much traveling as normal," he said. But the reason was probably gasoline prices, he said, and people who might have taken a 500-mile drive on vacation may have switched to a destination closer to home.
In theory, declining mileage means less traffic, but motorists can be forgiven for not noticing, Mr. Cheske said. Traffic "doesn't seem lighter because it's so jammed up," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIESEL FUEL PRICES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); TRUCK DRIVERS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); FUEL MARKETS (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (74%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); DIESEL FUEL (70%); GASOLINE MARKETS (70%) ROADS AND TRAFFIC; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (57%); AMERICAN TRUCKING ASSOCIATIONS (54%) TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2001 



70 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1523 words

HEADLINE: Medical Fees Are Often Higher For Patients Without Insurance 

BYLINE:  By GINA KOLATA 

 BODY:
When patients go to Dr. Stephen Brenner, an internal medicine specialist, for a routine exam, their bills can vary by 45 percent. The uninsured pay the most and patients with insurance plans are charged the least.
 It is not his doing, said Dr. Brenner, who practices in New Haven. He explains that it is because health insurance companies insist on hefty discounts. "It's a take it or leave it situation for doctors," Dr. Brenner said. But he said he knew that the insured paid much less than their share. For the insured, he said, "it's almost like getting a BMW or Mercedes at half price." 
 Other doctors cite more extreme price disparities. A New York gynecologist says he gets $25 for a routine exam for a woman insured by Group Health Insurance and charges $175 for the same exam for a woman without insurance. 
"It's horribly ironic," said Paul Menzel, a professor of philosophy at Pacific Lutheran University in Tacoma, Wash. The care of the poor once was supported by the wealthy and the insured, but now the opposite is happening, he said. "It is the people who are most provided for, not the people who are least provided for, who get the benefit of cost-shifting," Professor Menzel said.
In a medical emergency, uninsured people can get care, even if they walk away from their bills. But if it is not an emergency, doctors and hospitals may insist on payment, often requiring a deposit in advance. As a result, some uninsured people struggle for years to pay medical bills and others put off seeing a doctor until minor problems become major ones.
Some health policy experts like Uwe Reinhardt, an economics professor at Princeton University, see the situation as "brutal and inhumane." But, Professor Reinhardt said, doctors and hospitals are trapped in it.
Despite the discounts they have negotiated, some large insurance companies have had their own financial troubles lately. For example, Aetna, the nation's largest health insurer, reported in January that its fourth quarter earnings had declined by 65 percent.
Mark Pauly, a professor of health care systems at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, said there was no real villain. "I don't think it's exactly good versus evil," he said, "it's just business."
The problem crept up on them, doctors and hospital administrators say, after they began agreeing to slash their prices for health insurers in return for a steady flow of patients. Then they found themselves scrambling to maintain their cash flow.
They found an answer with patients outside the managed care system, like those with fee-for-service plans in which the patients pay their own bills and are reimbursed by an insurance company. But the uninsured also are outside the system, and have no one to negotiate for them. So they end up charged the higher prices, too.
Most patients paying the full fare have no idea that their bill may be many times that of the people next to them in the doctor's waiting room. And, in interviews, many doctors said they did not offer patients information on pricing disparities, however much they might agonize over the inequities of the system.
While this may not be a problem for people who can afford fee-for-service plans, which typically are far more expensive than other health insurance, it can be devastating for the uninsured.
"If you're a partner in a law firm you can afford to pay more than your legal secretary can," said Dr. Darcy Hansen, an internist in private practice in Washington. "But," she said, "it's the uninsured who really falter."
Dr. Hansen said the pattern began about 10 or 15 years ago when she started negotiating with managed care companies. "I thought it was the wave of the future," she said. "I have a lot of poor patients, a lot of single moms who don't have a huge income. I thought that if they could pay $5 for an office visit they were more likely to come in than if they have to pay a $400 or $500 bill," she said, referring to the co-payment, the amount a patient might have to pay when a managed care company covers virtually the entire bill.
"Then the fees slowly ratcheted down," Dr. Hansen said.
In the meantime, she said, with fewer and fewer patients who pay the full rates, she has no choice but to keep prices for those patients high. Her take-home income, she said, is half that of two or three years ago.
Individual doctors are not the only ones in difficult straits. Hospital administrators say the same sequence of events happened to them, with often devastating effects.
The administrators said their problems began about a decade ago when insurance companies offered to make their hospitals "preferred providers," meaning that patients insured by the companies would go to those hospitals en masse, if the hospitals slashed their prices.
It sounded workable -- volume in exchange for a discount. But soon the insurers discovered that their patients wanted a choice of providers. So instead of sending all their patients to one hospital, insurers offered choices. The hospitals were left with the low prices and without the steady stream of patients.
The next step was for hospitals to compete by offering even lower prices to insurers, not so much to get business but to avoid losing it.
Hospitals that tried to hold the line lost business. Then their revenues dried up. "Now the spiral gets deeper," said James D. Shelton, the chairman and chief executive of Triad Hospitals Inc., a chain of for-profit hospitals and surgery centers.
Mr. Shelton said that he knew the uninsured had been victims of this situation. But, he said, what are hospitals supposed to do?
"There's a limit to what these people can pay," Mr. Shelton said. "But what is the greater good -- if the hospital goes bankrupt and it's the only provider in the community or if you try to collect every bill you can within reason and the person goes bankrupt?"
At New York-Presbyterian Hospital in New York, Dr. Herbert Pardes, the president and chief executive, said that so few patients were paying undiscounted rates and the discounted rates were so low that it was becoming increasingly difficult to provide free care for poor people who could not pay.
"I like the fact that we help people who are poor," Dr. Pardes said. But, he said, the financial pressures on his hospital are so great that "the last thing we want is to get a reputation as the place to go for somebody who's poor."
He recently got a call from a friend at another hospital who had a poor, uninsured patient who needed an expensive treatment. Dr. Pardes's friend said his hospital could not afford to do it. Could New York-Presbyterian take it on? Dr. Pardes' staff members advised him to say no, that they already were accepting too many charity cases. 
"I'm left as the final decision maker," Dr. Pardes said. "I told them to do it. Then I put the phone down and I started to cry." 
"It is a real ethical and personal dilemma for me," Dr. Pardes said.
Kenneth E. Thorpe, the chairman of the department of health policy and management at Emory University's School of Public Health, said he thought he knew about health care prices and the differences between what could be negotiated and what individuals might be charged. 
Then his sister-in-law, who is 22 and without health insurance, was hit by a car as she walked along a road in California. She suffered a head injury so severe that she was in a coma. Her medical bills soared to more than $500,000. Yet the man who hit her had no job and no assets and less than $20,000 in insurance, so suing him would not help.
She was covered under an uninsured motorist clause in her father's car insurance policy. Soon her lawyers started negotiating prices for her medical care. The insurance company's cap was $300,000 and the lawyers, working on a contingency basis, would get a third of whatever the insurance company paid.
"Lo and behold, they got the rate down so that it fit below the cap," Professor Thorpe said. The medical charges were reduced to $200,000. That meant that the lawyers got their maximum amount, $100,000, and the insurance company paid its full amount, $300,000.
Professor Thorpe said he was startled by how arbitrary medical pricing seemed to be. "It was a real eye-opener," he said. 
Irene Wielawski, who studied local efforts to provide care for the uninsured under a grant from the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation described pricing disparities in a recent issue of the journal Health Affairs.
When Ms. Wielawski's son needed a hernia operation, she wrote, her insurance company, Aetna, paid $3,509.50 for a surgeon, the surgical suite, a pediatrician, laboratory tests and an X-ray. But an uninsured Sacramento carpenter she was following as part of her research also needed a hernia operation. Hospital officials told him that the surgeon's bill alone would be $3,000 to $5,000 and that he needed to make a down payment of $1,500. Unable to pay, he put off the operation for a year until a charity project paid for it.
"That happens everywhere," said Dr. Guy Clifton, the chief of neurosurgery at the University of Texas-Houston Medical School. "If it's not an emergency and you can't pay for it, you don't get care."

GRAPHIC: Photos: "It's a take it or leave it situation for doctors," says Dr. Stephen Brenner of the disparity in fees. Dr. Herbert Pardes, right, chief executive at New York-Presbyterian Hospital, says the care of the poor is being imperiled. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times); (George Ruhe for The New York Times)(pg. A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); INTERNAL MEDICINE (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); INSURANCE (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (88%); HEALTH CARE (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (76%); GROUP HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (73%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (69%); COMPANY EARNINGS (69%); PHILOSOPHY (67%); CASH FLOW (66%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (62%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); HEALTH INSURANCE; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS AND MANAGED CARE; DOCTORS; HOSPITALS; DISCOUNT SELLING 

PERSON: KOLATA, GINA 

GEOGRAPHIC: TACOMA, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2001 



71 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1323 words

HEADLINE: THE MILOSEVIC SURRENDER: NEWS ANALYSIS; 
After the Arrest: Wider Debate About the Role of Milosevic, and of Serbia

BYLINE:  By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: BELGRADE, Serbia, April 1 

 BODY:
The arrest of Slobodan Milosevic early today closes one cycle of Balkan history and opens, only now, the possibility of a considered debate in Serbia about his role in the wars that devastated the former Yugoslavia and horrified the world. 
 Having threatened to kill himself and his family rather than go to prison, Mr. Milosevic went comparatively quietly in the end, his surrender broken only by a few gunshots fired wildly by his anguished daughter, Marija. 
 For Mr. Milosevic, who is just 59, the future stretches out as a series of courtrooms and jail cells. 
Today the man who once called himself "the Ayatollah Khomeini of Serbia" found himself jailed and called up before a judge investigating a series of crimes, initially financial, that will very likely include more serious charges like conspiracy to murder political opponents.
And, in time, at the end of any vista is Mr. Milosevic's likely transfer to the international war crimes tribunal in The Hague, to face charges over his role in the 1999 Kosovo war, with further indictments on Bosnia and Croatia expected to follow. 
When and if that happens may depend on constitutional changes in Yugoslavia as well as continued pressure from the United States and other nations, but many here are already considering his transfer an inevitability despite the opposition of Mr. Milosevic's successor, Vojislav Kostunica. 
Mr. Milosevic is widely considered to be the main protagonist behind the wars that broke apart Yugoslavia in the 1990's infighting between Serbs, Croats and Muslims that left some 200,000 people dead. 
The Serbs who once followed him to battle and who voted against him in October reacted to his arrest with pleasure, indifference or disgust -- but the rallies of supporters that the new government feared did not materialize.
Even Mr. Milosevic's Serbian Socialist Party worked to persuade him to surrender after armed guards at his residence thwarted two arrest attempts at the start of the weekend, the party understanding that it has a future only with Mr. Milosevic gone.
His political career is over. But "the great debate about Milosevic in Serbia, among Serbs, is only about to begin," said Aleksa Djilas, a historian who has studied his career. "This debate will go on for a very long time." He added that "those who think of him as just an obstacle to the future have too rosy an idea of the future," especially in the economy.
"People won't simply blame him for everything," Mr. Djilas said. "I think chances are that in a year people will blame him less than now." Foreign aid will come slowly, he said, the economy will continue to falter in the midst of a global slowdown, and anti-Western sentiment may increase. 
Predrag Simic, an adviser to President Kostunica, who defeated Mr. Milosevic in an election last fall, said: "I forsee witch hunts to come, and Milosevic will be loudest in asking for a witch hunt. But that's normal. This country is undergoing a painful transformation. With his arrest, an important part of our political process from now on will be how to explain to our own people what happened over the Milosevic years."
Mr. Milosevic, who is known for long periods of depression and indecision, pleaded innocent to all charges against him today and is expected by those who know him to bounce back and conduct a vigorous defense of himself, his policies and his government. He is expected to argue that he stole nothing for himself and did what he could to keep the country together and running in the face of international sanctions and hostility that were aimed not merely at him but at all Serbs. 
His main theme came out in his last published interview, in the newspaper Danas, when he said, "I always considered myself to be an ordinary person, whom, at one point in life, historical circumstances placed in a position to devote his whole life to the nation that had everything in jeopardy."
Mr. Milosevic is seen as a fighter with good tactical skills who will try to demolish what is so far a largely circumstantial case against him. "The people putting him on trial," Mr. Djilas said, "are themselves not above reproach, and those who respect the rule of law may not come out the winners."
A public trial even on domestic charges is likely to provide considerable room for embarrassment to many senior officials and politicians, including a number of new democrats who supported or flirted with Mr. Milosevic and Serbian nationalism in the past, like Vuk Draskovic of the Serbian Renewal Movement and Zoran Djindjic, the current Serbian prime minister. 
Mr. Kostunica also supported the right of the Bosnian Serbs to independence, but kept his distance from Mr. Milosevic or any paramilitary organization.
A trial in The Hague would most likely implicate or severely embarrass senior and former Yugoslav police and army commanders, like Momcilo Perisic, Mr. Milosevic's former chief of staff and now a Serbian deputy prime minister. 
Mr. Milosevic could also have much to say, his aides have suggested, about key figures in the military of other states of the former Yugoslavia -- let alone current allies of the West like Milo Djukanovic, the president of Montenegro, and Agim Ceku, a former Croatian general who runs the Kosovo Protection Corps, the civilian face of the supposedly dismantled Kosovo Liberation Army.
The key roles of prominent Serbian intellectuals, journalists and institutions, like the Serbian Academy of Sciences and the Serbian Orthodox Church, in fanning Serbian nationalism may come under new scrutiny. Mr. Milosevic, with longstanding contacts with senior Western politicians and diplomats, is thought likely to be able to embarrass them, too.
"We had both liberal and nationalist options, and to explain why the nationalist, crypto-fascist one prevailed is complicated," Mr. Simic said. "Milosevic took advantage of upheaval and our state of mind, like a rider on a wave. But what happened in Yugoslavia was made possible by the West's reaction to the crisis." 
Mr. Milosevic's career is over, Mr. Simic said. "But the failure to deliver on their promises could put the reformers in a precarious situation, and help those who would cry that Milosevic was right, that reforms bring nothing, that he defended Serbian interests." After the arrest, he said, "we now need strong, sensible support in Washington."
Slobodan Spremo, a 33-year-old physics professor buying juice at Belgrade's flea market today, said Mr. Milosevic was never a nationalist, but simply manipulated public opinion to hold on to power. "He and his wife are egomaniacs, and they used people's national feelings," he said. "Yugoslavia would have collapsed without Milosevic, but differently, and we wouldn't have been satanized in the same way."
Ivan Radovanovic, a Serbian journalist and author, said the arrest of Mr. Milosevic, like the death of the Romanian dictator Nicolae Ceausescu, left him with a sense of nausea. "Whenever a dictator gets his punishment, you feel a little sick, because for years and years he was on top and we have some responsibility for that, too," he said.
"For years we were in a kind of war with the world and with ourselves," Mr. Radovanovic said. "And now something is over, we don't know exactly what, but it may allow us a certain peace, I think. And it will help define a path to our future, because the West is where we belong."
Mr. Djilas, who is critical of the Hague tribunal as an essentially political court, also sees important lessons for international behavior that could come out of a war-crimes trial of Mr. Milosevic.
"Some kind of new international order is being constructed, intentionally or not," Mr. Djilas said. "And there will be a blessing in disguise through his trial. Something will crystallize: what kinds of nationalism are justified or not, what kinds of intervention are justified or not, how much are great powers entitled to respond, and how. It will not be a sterile exercise."

CORRECTION-DATE: April 3, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about the arrest of Slobodan Milosevic, the former president of Yugoslavia, misidentified the publication in which the most recent interview with him appeared. It was in the Israeli daily Haaretz, and reprinted by the Yugoslav daily Danas.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Belgrade newspapers put former President Milosevic on their front pages yesterday after he was taken to the capital's Central Prison. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARRESTS (90%); WAR CRIMES (90%); POLITICS (88%); HISTORY (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); PRISONS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); JUDGES (70%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); MURDER (58%); RELIGION (50%) WAR CRIMES AND CRIMINALS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

PERSON: ERLANGER, STEVEN; MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (56%) SERBIA (98%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); CROATIA (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); KOSOVO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NETHERLANDS (56%) SERBIA 

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2001 



72 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 209 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING -- ADDENDA; 
Agencies Announce Sharp Cuts in Staff

BYLINE:  By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:
Two agencies are making significant cutbacks, one laying off 23 percent of its staff and another closing an office.
 Giant Step, part of the Leo Burnett USA unit of Leo Burnett Worldwide in Chicago, is making the layoffs, dismissing 52 of 227 employees because of "the current economic climate," the agency said in a statement, and to ensure its "continued success and profitability." 
 The layoffs are mostly at the Giant Step Chicago office; some are in New York. The dismissals came after Burnett, owned by the Bcom3 Group, laid off 200 employees, or about 9 percent of its American work force.
Rapp Collins Worldwide in New York, which is part of the Omnicom Group, is closing the office in Minneapolis, and will be consolidating the accounts handled there at its Chicago office.
Jack Mello, a spokesman for Rapp Collins, confirmed a report of the closing in the online edition of Advertising Age, attributing it to a need to improve efficiency. Of the 27 employees in Minneapolis, Mr. Mello said, "more than 5" who are part of senior management would be offered the chance to relocate to Chicago. Asked if Patrick Furey, the office president, would be among them, Mr. Mello said Mr. Furey would be "around for the short term" to help with the transition.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); DISMISSALS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); RELOCATIONS (73%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (57%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (57%) ADVERTISING; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) 

COMPANY: OMNICOM GROUP INC (91%); PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (84%)

ORGANIZATION: GIANT STEP; RAPP COLLINS WORLDWIDE 

TICKER: OMC (NYSE) (91%); PUB (PAR) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (91%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (91%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%) SIC7331 DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING; 

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%); MINNESOTA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2001 



73 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1240 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
At a forum of big marketers, the economy's slowdown runs quietly through the agenda.

BYLINE:  By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:
LEADING national marketers are worriedly watching consumer behavior to gauge whether the faltering American economy will require them to the reduce the estimated $53 billion they spend annually on television advertising.
 That concern emerged in interviews with executives who attended the annual Television Advertising Forum sponsored by the Association of National Advertisers. The event, held on Thursday at the Plaza Hotel in Midtown Manhattan, drew about 250 attendees representing consumer product companies, agencies, broadcast and cable networks and program syndicators. 
 Those attending the daylong forum heard discussions on topics like audience measurement and technology, as well as the continuing efforts by mainstream marketers like Coca-Cola, General Motors, Johnson & Johnson and Procter & Gamble to encourage the TV networks to offer more shows in the early hours of prime time aimed at family audiences.
But the worries over the economy ran like a thread through the presentations. For instance, when Jeff Greenfield, an anchor at the CNN unit of AOL Time Warner, began his remarks titled "The Washington Scene," he pretended to be daunted at the prospect of finding sponsors for his new show. 
"I know how anxious you are to increase your ad budgets," Mr. Greenfield said, to laughter from the audience, adding that since the recent cutbacks caused by the softness in the media economy, "we're no longer calling ourselves CNN; we had to lay off the other 'N.' "
The executives discussing the prospects for television advertising were less jocular.
"I don't have to tell you the economy's an issue," said Robert L. Wehling, global marketing officer at Procter in Cincinnati, "and everybody knows Procter & Gamble's sales are not robust."
"I can't fix the economy," he added, "but I can tell you everyone at Procter & Gamble is doing everything we can to get sales moving forward more aggressively."
While Procter executives "certainly believe we're dead in the water if we don't put our brand messages in front of our consumers," Mr. Wehling said, as decisions on ad spending for the company's 300 products are made brand by brand, "some will go up, and some won't."
There is a similar perspective at the Clorox Company, which competes against Procter in categories like household cleaners, as planning ad budgets begins for the 2002 fiscal year, starting on July 1.
"It's hard to predict what this market place will be since it's changed so dramatically," said Ellen Murray, manager for broadcast at Clorox in Oakland, Calif. "As we set the marketing objectives for individual brands, it's important to understand what competitors are doing."
"Will it make us spend more? Maybe not," she added. "Will it make us spend differently? Maybe."
Clorox is a major spender in print as well as on television, running multipage ad inserts in women's magazines. "That will continue," Ms. Murray said, "but I can't predict right now" whether dollars would be shifted to print from TV or vice versa.
Another advertiser that spends heavily in both television and print is the L'Oreal U.S.A. unit of the French cosmetics giant L'Oreal S.A.
"We'll see how the year develops," said Vince Frezzo, assistant vice president for advertising and promotion at L'Oreal U.S.A. in New York, estimating that spending for 2001 "will probably be even or up slightly from a year ago."
One consideration, he added, would be if competitors drastically cut back ad spending because "that's definitely an opportunity for us to invest in our brands."
Sometimes when the economy softens, competitors reduce ad spending to zero because they are forced out of business. For example, Montgomery Ward, once among America's largest retailers, closed the last of its 250 stores in 30 states on March 25 after filing for bankruptcy in December.
"I feel terrible for Montgomery Ward," said Perianne Gagnon, media services director at Sears, Roebuck & Company in Hoffman Estates, Ill. "It was a real institution."
Sears, which plans to buy 28 former Ward stores and auto centers, is likely to maintain ad spending at a level "very similar to where it is," Ms. Gagnon said, "because we have to connect with our target customers" regardless of the economy.
Besides, she added, if ad budgets are cut back during downturns, "you've got to redouble your efforts on the upswing."
That outlook was echoed by Kate O'Donnell, media analyst at Subway Restaurants in Milford, Conn.
Competitors like McDonald's "are trying to eat our lunch as it is," Ms. O'Donnell said. "We have to catch up."
Subway is "having a good year," she added, partly because of new ads, so "spending will be up for 2001 from last year -- not an exorbitant amount, but a good amount."
McDonald's is among the marketers joining forces, under the banner of the Family Friendly Programming Forum, to encourage the creation of series that children and parents can watch together. The marketers, which sell products aimed at mass consumer groups, have for some time bemoaned the shift in network programming that has brought franker fare to the early hours of prime time, like "Friends." Mr. Wehling of Procter, along with J. Andrea Alstrup, corporate vice president for advertising at Johnson & Johnson in New Brunswick, N.J., updated the attendees on the consortium since a report they made last year.
This year the leaders of those efforts said they had gained the backing of another big broadcast network, NBC, joining the three networks already involved with the group: ABC, a division of the Walt Disney Company; CBS, owned by Viacom; and WB, a unit of AOL Time Warner.
The executives also said they would most likely garner support from another big marketer, Wal-Mart Stores. 
NBC, part of the General Electric Company, will begin working with the consortium on developing scripts for the 2002-2003 TV season, Ms. Alstrup said, joining the three broadcast networks now taking part.
"Gilmore Girls," the first series under the auspices of the consortium, was introduced by WB for the 2000-2001 season. Ms. Alstrup said she anticipated it would be renewed, adding that scripts for at least 11 series being considered for the 2001-2002 season were developed with seed money from the consortium.
Mr. Wehling said he hoped that Wal-Mart would join the consortium in a month or so, which would bring membership to 43. Recent new members include General Mills, PepsiCo and Texas Instruments, he added.
One challenge facing the consortium was exemplified by a question after Mr. Wehling and Ms. Alstrup gave their report, asking if there would be support for a series that "reflects contemporary gay and lesbian families."
Mr. Wehling replied that at "our very first meeting" in 1998, the consortium "almost broke down" on the definition of family, adding: "What we agreed on was not to get into the trap of defining it. We're looking for programs that multigenerational audiences can watch together and all find relevant and entertaining."
"I keep saying this is a long-term effort," Mr. Wehling said. "If we can get one or two shows a year for the early-evening period over five or six years, and if half of them do well, we can change the TV environment in a positive way."
Could the problem be that "family friendly" is being construed too narrowly, connoting a traditional family, when that was not the consortium's intent?
"If they can come up with a better term," Ms. Alstrup said with a rueful smile, "give me a suggestion." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (95%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (94%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (91%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); SPONSORSHIP (90%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (90%); BRANDING (89%); BUDGETS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (78%); POLISHES & SANITATION GOODS (78%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (77%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); CABLE TELEVISION (77%); CABLE INDUSTRY (76%); CLEANERS (50%) TELEVISION; ADVERTISING 

COMPANY: CLOROX CO (81%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (70%); AOL INC (69%); COCA-COLA CO (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF NATIONAL ADVERTISERS (84%) ASSOCIATION OF NATIONAL ADVERTISERS 

TICKER: CLX (NYSE) (81%); JNJ (NYSE) (70%); AOL (NYSE) (69%); KO (NYSE) (57%); GM (NYSE) (57%); PGP (PAR) (56%); PG (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (81%); NAICS325612 POLISH & OTHER SANITATION GOOD MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC2812 ALKALIES & CHLORINE (81%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (70%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (70%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (69%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (69%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (57%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (56%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (56%)

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (70%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2001 



74 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1061 words

HEADLINE: London Journal; 
If Iraq Ever Needs a King, Here's a Dapper Hopeful

BYLINE:  By ALAN COWELL 

DATELINE: LONDON, April 1 

 BODY:
Sharif Ali bin al-Hussein is a man who lives in hope, and a regal hope at that. One day -- maybe soon, maybe later, he said -- he aspires to become the king of Iraq, taking a throne that has been vacant, or indeed nonexistent, since 1958 when his Hashemite forebears were shot to death in a military-led coup.
 Of course, he acknowledged in an interview in the heavily draped Kensington apartment that serves as his court in exile, some obstacles stand in his way. 
 Not least is that President Saddam Hussein has shown no readiness to hand over his rule to a royal pretender, not even a svelte, pinstriped former investment banker like Sharif Ali. 
What is more, the exiled Iraqi opposition, based here in London, shows the same reluctance to overcome the deep-seated factional feuds that have long blunted its campaign to oust Mr. Hussein.
Yet Sharif Ali -- sharif is a hereditary title roughly equivalent to lord -- has kept alive the flame of hope he has nurtured since he turned from portfolio management to full-time monarchic ambition after Iraq's invasion of Kuwait in 1990.
For one thing, Sharif Ali said, it is precisely because the Iraqi exiles, ranging from Kurds to Islamists, are so divided that he believes a revival of a monarchy would be appropriate.
"The appeal of the monarchy is that it is not dependent on one single constituency," Sharif Ali said in modulated English tones.
Most of all, though, his hope springs not so much from Baghdad as from Washington. "We always had high hopes for the new administration," Sharif Ali said. "And so far it's been very encouraging, the degree of cooperation and the degree of helping the Iraqi people overthrow the regime."
Indeed, he said, Iraq's exile movement has suggested to the Bush administration that it provide military support for "safe havens" inside Iraq where opponents of the government like dissident troops might gather under American tutelage for a push on Baghdad.
That idea has magnified divisions within the Bush administration over the extent to which support for the exiles should go beyond lip service to some form of military backing, complementing the enforcement of no-flight zones in northern and southern Iraq as well as economic sanctions.
Searching for new approaches on Iraq, the Bush administration sent Secretary of State Colin L. Powell to the Middle East in February to try to build support for sanctions focused more on Mr. Hussein and his military than on the Iraqi people. But some in the administration and some conservatives in the American Congress considered such a policy too soft.
The unfolding debate within the administration about Iraq will determine whether figures like Sharif Ali have a role to play in a broader policy to contain -- or even oust -- Mr. Hussein.
Along with others, Sharif Ali is a member of the collective leadership of the Iraqi National Congress, which presents itself as the main exile opposition. Its critics say it is dominated by groups rooted in the Kurds or northern Iraq and the Shiite Muslims of the south.
While the Bush administration has recently suggested that it may be seeking to embrace other opponents of Mr. Hussein more representative of the Sunni Muslim Arabs who dominate the government and the military and to distance itself from the Iraqi National Congress, which has been criticized as fractured and even feckless, some members of the organization do not appear worried.
"We are not concerned at all that the administration is going away from us," said Ahmed Chalaby, a prominent Shiite exile leader. "We don't believe there's any serious alternative." He spoke in an interview at an upscale London hotel where the group held a conference in March.
The gathering was paid for from part of the $100 million that the United States Congress earmarked for support of exiled Iraqis during the Clinton administration. But these days what exiles like Sharif Ali and Mr. Chalaby want goes far beyond financing for conferences.
"The issue is: is the U.S. prepared to support us to get rid of Saddam Hussein or not?" Mr. Chalaby said. "I think the debate has moved to the point where the administration is about to take this decision."
In the 21st century, Sharif Ali's regal ambitions may sound anachronistic or improbable, but history provides a precedent. In the early 1920's, after the rulers of the Hejaz in what is now Saudi Arabia overturned Ottoman rule -- in tandem with such Britons as T. E. Lawrence, a.k.a. Lawrence of Arabia -- Britain rewarded them by establishing Hashemite monarchies.
King Abdullah I was enthroned in what is now Jordan. King Faisal I took the crown in Syria in 1920, was deposed after only a few months by the French and then became king of Iraq in 1921.
Weathering many vicissitudes, the Iraqi monarchy endured until 1958, when King Faisal II and his entourage were killed. Sharif Ali, now 45, was 2 at the time. "The king called my father and said there seems to be some kind of mutiny among the troops, but everything seems to be all right," he said.
Everything was not all right. The king and Crown Prince Abd al-Ilah, Sharif Ali's uncle, were among those shot to death by conspirators after they and their royal guard surrendered. Sharif Ali's family took refuge in the Saudi Arabian Embassy in Baghdad and was later permitted to leave for Cairo.
The would-be king grew up in Lebanon and Britain. He studied economics and went into investment banking in London. His relationship to the last king of Iraq, said Faisal Khargouli, a supporter and spokesman, is that he is a cousin from both his mother's and his father's sides within the web of the Hashemite dynasty. But some challenge his claim to be the rightful successor.
While Sharif Ali has been recognized by the United States and the Iraqi exile movement as head of the Constitutional Monarchy Movement, others say the throne would belong to a rival, Prince Raad, who lives in Amman, Jordan, and plays a prominent role in the household of King Abdullah II of Jordan, the only currently ruling Hashemite.
Relations between Amman and the exiles are icy.
History offers another more ominous lesson for the monarchists. The British scholar Charles Tripp has noted that when King Faisal I took the throne in 1921, "most of the inhabitants of Iraq either knew nothing of his existence or saw little reason why he should be installed as ruler of the country."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sharif Ali bin al-Hussein, who left Iraq at the age of 2 in 1958 when his cousin Faisal II was dethroned and killed, hopes to become king. (Carlos Lopez-Barillas for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUPS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); INTERVIEWS (76%); POLITICS (75%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (69%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (68%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (64%); CONSERVATISM (61%); SHOOTINGS (56%) COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT; ROYAL FAMILY; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (55%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (55%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (55%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (79%) COWELL, ALAN; HUSSEIN, SHARIF ALI BIN AL- 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (94%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (88%) IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); KUWAIT (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2001 



75 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: As Virginia G.O.P. Feuds, Democrats Look to Gain 

BYLINE:  By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr. 

DATELINE: RICHMOND, Va., April 1 

 BODY:
Back in 1993, Virginia Democrats figured that in Attorney General Mary Sue Terry they finally had a candidate for governor who could win and put the brakes on the Republican juggernaut that was gaining momentum in the state with each passing election. But she was beaten by George F. Allen, who went on last year to unseat Senator Charles S. Robb, the sole Democrat still holding statewide office in the Old Dominion.
 Then in 1997, Democrats figured Lt. Gov. Don Beyer was a shoo-in for governor. But James S. Gilmore III beat him and occupies the governor's office today. 
 Now it is election time again -- Virginia and New Jersey have governor's elections in this off-year election -- and once more Virginia Democrats say, and polls indicate, that they have a real shot at capturing the governor's office and stopping the Republican juggernaut.
Bitter squabbling has broken out in Republican ranks in recent months over several issues, including whether to nominate Lt. Gov. John H. Hager or Attorney General Mark L. Earley to run to replace Mr. Gilmore. And while the Republicans have been feuding, Democrats have picked a candidate they are confident can take full advantage of the Republican discord and finally reclaim the governor's office for them. 
He is Mark R. Warner, a high-tech entrepreneur from Northern Virginia who was Democratic state chairman in the early 1990's and then, in 1996, after spending $10 million of his $200 million fortune, almost unseated one of Virginia's Republican icons, Senator John W. Warner, no relation.
A Mason-Dixon poll released last week indicated that Mark Warner, 45, would win a race against Mr. Earley by 7 points and could beat Mr. Hager by 12 points.
"Something's happening out there," Mr. Warner said. "Virginia is ready for change."
Mr. Warner is a political centrist, the right brand of politics for seeking office in a state in which only centrists and conservatives consistently win. Mr. Hager and Mr. Earley are both solid conservatives.
Republicans will pick their nominee at a party convention in Richmond on June 1 and 2. On the surface, the down-to-the-wire nomination fight between Mr. Hager and Mr. Earley seems cordial enough, with Mr. Earley the probable winner. But Governor Gilmore apparently fears it has become a divisive threat to party unity underneath and recently urged Mr. Hager to pull out and instead seek re-election as lieutenant governor.
Mr. Hager, irked that the governor, who also is the Republican national chairman, seemed to be taking sides, declared that he would not call off his intensive quest to corral delegates to the June convention. 
"A little competition is the healthiest thing in the world for a political party," he said while campaigning one night last week in Colonial Heights, 20 miles south of Richmond.
Mr. Earley argues that while competition may be healthy, the fight is essentially over.
"It's simple," he said. "I've got the most support within the party."
Compounding Republican woes, Mr. Gilmore has also tangled with the State Senate, notably its Republican leaders, over whether the Virginia economy remains strong enough to permit a cut he promised earlier in the state's unpopular car tax. The result: more Republican discord, with accompanying banner headlines, and polls that show Mr. Gilmore's popularity slipping.
Still, despite all the Republican discord, as Democrats look forward to November 2001, they have good reason to look back at what happened in November 1993 and 1997. 
"They've been blindsided before," said Larry Sabato, a political scientist at the University of Virginia and a longtime observer and chronicler of Old Dominion politics. "Mark Warner certainly has a real shot at winning, a very good shot. The Republicans, especially Gilmore, are inflicting a lot of wounds on themselves. But Republican strength runs deep in the state, and it's also early, very early, in this game."
Mr. Warner says he is "fully aware" of history.
"I'm just going to stay focused on the essentials," he said. "I'm a businessman and I know the kind of solid, reasonable programs it will take to keep Virginia healthy, prosperous, growing and well managed."
How much of his money is he willing to spend to win? "As little as I possibly can," he said with a chuckle.
"Look," he went on, "I've already raised $4 million from other people, twice as much as John Hager and Mark Earley together. The money that's coming in, the size and enthusiasm of the crowds -- it's all really surprised me. There's movement out there. Maybe it's worry about the economy. Maybe it's weariness with too many Republicans in office for too long. Maybe it's disappointment with all the Republican feuding. Whatever it is, it's an opportunity for Democrats."
On the Republican side, the process of corralling delegates to attend the nominating convention was completed last week with the last of 135 party mass meetings around the state. Mr. Hager and Mr. Earley each attended more than half of the meetings, often together and usually competing for support by arguing about "electability" rather than contentious issues like abortion and gun control, on which they hold basically the same conservative views. 
"In a way," Mr. Sabato said, "this Republican contest is more about whose turn it is to be governor than it is about hot-button issues."
Mr. Earley, 46, appears to have come out of the mass meetings with the most delegates, though slightly short of a clear majority. But perhaps 10 percent of the delegates going to Richmond are listed as uncommitted, and so Mr. Hager, who is 64 and uses a wheelchair because of polio, insists he still has a shot at winning and is not pondering a pullout, as has been rumored, in the interest of party unity.
"There are two things to keep in mind," Mr. Hager said. "First, the uncommitted delegates are up for grabs. Second, you have to do more in this process than just go to mass meetings and get delegates to declare they support you. You also have to get those delegates to make the trip to Richmond and officially make their declaration there. I believe I stir up the kind of excitement that will pull the uncommitted to my side and also will make people want to show up in Richmond to back me."
Mr. Earley disagrees.
"I think it's out of reach for John," he said. "If he and I manage to get all our people to show up in Richmond, he'd still have to get just about all of the uncommitted to come over to him in order to catch me. That's not a reasonable thing to expect."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The fight for the nomination for governor between Mark L. Earley, left, and John H. Hager has caused a rift among Virginia Republicans. (Timothy Wright for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); GOVERNORS (92%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (50%) ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); PUBLIC OPINION; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

PERSON: JIM GILMORE (90%); MARK WARNER (89%); JOHN WARNER (79%) AYRES, B DRUMMOND JR; GILMORE, JAMES S 3D (GOV); EARLEY, MARK L; HAGER, JOHN H; WARNER, MARK R 

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (92%) VIRGINIA, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) VIRGINIA

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2001 



76 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 700 words

HEADLINE: Essay; 
Fox, Bush & Helms

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM SAFIRE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
A remarkable confluence of personalities and economic forces bids fair to break the logjam along the Rio Grande.
 It began when Mexican voters stunned this continent by ending the one-party rule that had corrupted their country for seven decades and installed Vicente Fox -- a charismatic but sensible businessman -- as their leader. 
 That break with the past coincided with the emergence of George W. Bush on the U.S. political scene. In his first interview on foreign affairs a couple of years ago, the new candidate struck me as no whiz on most of the world, but as governor of Texas showed he was deeply interested in his neighbor to the south. Just as education was Bush's strong suit on domestic policy, Mexico was his closest-studied area of foreign affairs. 
The third player in this developing drama is Jesse Helms of North Carolina, chairman of Senate Foreign Relations, bete noire of dovish liberals, whose hard line on Cuban Communism and Chinese cruelty has long extended to U.N. bureaucratic waste and the old Mexican regime's endemic corruption.
Most diplomatic observers figured that Fox and Bush would reach out to each other. That's because it is in Mexico's interest to resolve disputes over drug enforcement and the U.S. interdiction of migrants, and is in the U.S. interest to encourage development of Mexico's oil and gas potential. Not for nothing was Bush's first foray out of this country to Fox's ranch in Mexico. But it seemed all too likely that this presidential diplomacy would run into the implacable resistance of Helms.
The opposite is happening. Working closely with Democrat Joe Biden -- who praised Helms's "tactical genius" in wedding a much-needed U.N. reform to U.S. dues payments -- ol' Jesse is in hot support of the new North American rapprochement, or whatever the Spanish word for that is.
The Senate Foreign Relations Committee of Mexico and the group of the same name in the United States will soon announce a mid-April gathering in Mexico City that is unprecedented: It may just be the first joint meeting between a committee of the U.S. Congress and a committee of a foreign congress or parliament. (Only in America!)
"The foreign minister, Jorge Castaneda, came to see me," Senator Helms recounts, "and I was mighty impressed with what President Fox is doing. I'm not one to take trips, but when I asked if it would do any good to take the committee down there for a meeting, he purt' near came out of his chair. We shook hands on it. I think just the act of our coming down adds credibility to our desire to deal in good faith."
Did he clear this with President Bush? After all -- the Logan Act, Thomas Jefferson, legislative diplomacy, etc. "No. I did tell Cheney about it afterward, and he thought it was a good idea." 
One of the several bones of contention between the countries is the U.S. law requiring that our president certify to Congress before foreign aid is dispensed that recipients are helping fight our war on drugs. Mexico takes this as an insult to its sovereignty.
"Joe Biden asked Chris Dodd and Kay Bailey Hutchison to work on that," says the courtly, wheelchair-bound Helms, who has no feeling in his feet but a good feeling for what's right. In a Foreign Relations Committee meeting tomorrow a compromise is likely to be found presuming a recipient nation's innocence instead of guilt.
More than issues of pride will have to be tackled. Bush struck a nice balance of blame between the supply side of drugs south of the border and the demand side up north. Also, as migration (a word preferred to "illegal immigration") is controlled, amnesty for three million undocumented Mexicans now living in the U.S. should be considered. 
The best way to stop illegal border-crossing is to help Mexico become prosperous. The best way for Mexico to raise its standard of living is to open its vast energy potential to foreign investment, helping itself even as it turns on the lights in California. 
The Vicente, George and Jesse show could founder on the old rocks of suspicion, venality and prejudice. But now there is at least a chance, with political stars in rare alignment and national needs dovetailing, for real progress south of the border. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); CORRUPTION (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); LIBERALISM (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (65%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MEXICO-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: VICENTE FOX QUESADA (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); JOE BIDEN (56%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); FOX QUESADA, VICENTE (PRES); SAFIRE, WILLIAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); MEXICO (97%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) MEXICO

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2001 



77 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: Metro Matters; 
Giuliani's Wagnerian Aria

BYLINE:  By JOYCE PURNICK 

 BODY:
WHAT an embarrassing time for New York City. Students in five failing schools are thrown a life preserver and their parents opt for drowning. Then the mayor morphs into a predecessor: the mild, confrontation-averse Robert F. Wagner.
 Mr. Wagner made an art of defusing tension by naming "blue ribbon" panels to ponder problems long enough for them to go away. Now Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani is trying the tactic to get out from under his pledge to regulate city financing of the arts. 
 In reality, there's not much he can do. Each year the city allocates money to arts groups based on history and political deals. The content of exhibitions, plays or music programs has never been a factor. When Mr. Giuliani, angered by a painting of the Virgin Mary spotted with elephant dung, tried to withdraw city money from the Brooklyn Museum of Art in 1999, a federal court said he had infringed on free speech. But Mr. Giuliani persisted, infuriated again this year by a photograph in the museum of a nude woman in a Christ pose, and tomorrow he is to appoint a new commission by reviving an obscure city panel.
Headliners on an unofficial list read like something out of a Seinfeld routine: Raoul Felder, the mayor's lawyer in his awkward divorce; Henry J. Stern, the tree-hugging parks commissioner whose agency is under federal investigation for racial discrimination; and Peter Max, the artist who pleaded guilty to concealing income from the Internal Revenue Service.
The panel is also to include several clerics, administration officials and Leonard Garment, the Nixon White House official who is now working on a new jazz museum in Harlem and who therefore needs friends at City Hall.
The group will develop criteria for public financing, as an independent Congressional commission did in 1990, after the National Endowment for the Arts came under fire for underwriting works many found blasphemous. The commission, of which Mr. Garment was co-chairman, said that government should not create restrictions based on content, and recommended that the law should reaffirm "the high place the nation accords to fostering mutual respect for the disparate beliefs and values among us."
Congress chose more restrictive language, provoking litigation. But the City Council is not Congress.
There is only one way to guarantee artistic freedom: by ending government financing, which always raises questions of control. But the arts are too economically crucial to the city for that. Plus, doling out money is too powerful a political tool for mayors to sacrifice; grants buy loyalty.
So the purist solution is out. And that pesky First Amendment forbids censorship. Hence the mayor is finding cover by appointing a commission that will draft inoffensive, unenforceable "criteria." 
Bob Wagner would have approved. And the city gets a welcome distraction from its real problems, like the meltdown in its schools.
The latest manifestation is the rejection of the bid from Edison Schools to manage five of the city's worst schools. Parents rejected the for-profit company in a vote doomed from the beginning.
Support was weak, opposition was strong, and the requirement under the state charter law -- that a majority of parents in each school vote yes -- was daunting. A majority appears to have voted in only two of the schools. Could a vote -- to be officially tallied today or tomorrow -- have been avoided through direct contracts? The matter is still in dispute. 
BUT Edison obviously had a fundamental problem that went well beyond voting strategies. Consider that Schools Chancellor Harold O. Levy, an ostensible Edison supporter, failed to consult in advance with community groups, parents and political leaders. And Mr. Giuliani, champion of privatization, is distrusted in minority communities.
On the other side was the powerful United Federation of Teachers, which manipulates the current system and feared Edison's tougher rules; Acorn, the community group that is also an Edison competitor; and many politicians intent on maintaining alliances and patronage through community school boards.
Detractors demonized Edison, though studies -- when stripped of bias -- show that the company has a solid record. Edison had to be better for students than what they have now.
But innovation lost, and those who let those five public schools collapse in the first place are more firmly in charge than ever.
Anyone for Seattle?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MAYORS (89%); PRIVATIZATION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (88%); LITIGATION (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); SCHOOL PRIVATIZATION (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); BUDGETS (75%); JAZZ & BLUES (75%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (75%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); ENDOWMENTS (73%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (72%); RELIGION (72%); DISCRIMINATION (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); GUILTY PLEAS (68%); APPROVALS (66%); TAX AUTHORITIES (66%); CENSORSHIP (66%); INVESTIGATIONS (64%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (59%); RACE & RACISM (50%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; CHARTER SCHOOLS; ART; CENSORSHIP; FREEDOM OF SPEECH AND EXPRESSION; PRIVATIZATION; MUSEUMS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; PRIVATIZATION 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (54%) EDISON SCHOOLS 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (79%); RICHARD NIXON (54%) PURNICK, JOYCE; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2001 



78 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1332 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-8

U.S. Spy Plane Lands In China After Collision
A Navy spy plane on a routine mission near the Chinese coast made an emergency landing in China after colliding with a Chinese fighter jet that was closely following it, officials said. The United States said that it was seeking the immediate return of the crew of 24, all said to be in good condition, and of the plane. A1

Because the plane, an EP-3E Aries II turboprop, is considered among the Navy's most sophisticated surveillance planes, American officials are demanding that the Chinese not board or search the aircraft without American permission. A1

Milosevic Arrested in Belgrade
The arrest of Slobodan Milosevic came only after protracted negotiations at his home in which he was assured that he would get a fair trial and that his arrest was not a pretext for transfer to The Hague. The former Yugoslav president threatened to kill himself, his wife and their daughter, but was finally persuaded to go without a struggle. A1

President Bush praised the Yugoslav government for arresting Mr. Milosevic but cautioned that the extent of his crimes warranted a trial at the United Nations war crimes tribunal in The Hague, and not just a trial on local charges in Serbia. A8

Tense Funeral in Hebron
Six days after a 10-month-old girl was killed by Palestinian fire, her body was escorted through the divided West Bank city to a heavily guarded burial. Throngs of Israelis, most of them religious settlers, marched wearing laminated pictures of the baby and stickers that said, "No more Arabs, no more terror." A3

Mediation Urged in Mideast
Prime Minister Ali Abu al-Ragheb of Jordan said the leaders of Egypt and Jordan would seek to convince President Bush that ending the violence between Israel and the Palestinians requires renewed intervention from Washington. Both leaders arrive in the United States this week. A4

Elections Delayed in England
Prime Minister Tony Blair has decided to change his carefully nurtured plans to seek re-election next month and delay the vote a month, in fear that voter backlash could reduce his commanding lead in the polls if he held the election amid the foot-and-mouth epidemic. A7

NATIONAL A10-13

Medical Pricing Disparities Hit Uninsured Hardest
Medical care of the poor once was supported by the bills paid by the wealthy and the insured, but now the opposite is happening, with the uninsured paying the most and patients with insurance charged the least, doctors and hospitals say. A1

New Scrutiny at Gun Shows
All public gun sales in Colorado -- in stores and at weekend shows -- are now treated the same way, with buyers undergoing criminal background checks by either the F.B.I. or the state. Many buyers and sellers at a Colorado Springs gun show grumbled at the new law. A10

Democrats Buoyed in Virginia
Virginia Democrats think they have a real shot at capturing the governor's office in November and stopping the Republican juggernaut. Bitter squabbling has broken out in Republican ranks in recent months over several issues, and Democrats have picked a candidate they are confident can take full advantage of the Republican discord. A10

Yes, Snowboarders Are Allowed
Snowboarders were officially, if not universally, welcomed on Ajax, the most celebrated mountain in Aspen, Colo. Depending on the point of view, the event -- a reflection of changing demographics -- could be described as either the end of elitism, or barbarians at the gate. A11

Big PAC's May Gain Influence
Some of the largest political action committees, like those sponsored by gun owners, real estate agents, teachers, environmentalists and government employees, could find their political influence enhanced, campaign finance experts say. The PAC's soft-money competitors will no longer be able to participate under the campaign finance measure that is expected to be approved by the Senate today. A12

More Cars, Fewer Miles
For the first time in 20 years, the number of miles traveled on the nation's streets and highways declined, to 2.688 trillion in 2000 from 2.691 trillion in 1999, even as the numbers of people and vehicles climbed. And a longstanding trend toward safer driving reversed, as the number of deaths per 100 million miles rose to 1.6, from 1.5, the Department of Transportation said. A12

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

For Black Officers, Diversity Has Limits
The New York Police Department has spent a generation diversifying its ranks. But the department's efforts have failed in one crucial respect. For all the recruiting campaigns, the millions of dollars spent, the pledges by police commissioners and mayors to make the department reflect the city it polices, the advances have largely excluded black men. A1

Pataki Courts Hispanic Vote
Gov. George E. Pataki, chasing the coveted -- and elusive -- Hispanic vote, came to East Harlem to announce that he would travel to the Puerto Rican island of Vieques next week and continue to press Washington to end the Navy's bombing exercises there permanently. B1

A Battle Over a Tenement
A battered but potentially lucrative Upper East Side tenement is at the heart of a tug of war between a charity with prominent supporters and a developer with City Hall links. B1

Writer and Yale Reach Deal
Larry Kramer, the AIDS activist and author, has agreed to leave his literary papers and political papers chronicling the birth of the Gay Men's Health Crisis and the protest group Act Up to Yale. Four years ago, the university rejected an endowed chair in gay and lesbian studies from Mr. Kramer, a Yale graduate. B6

ARTS E1-8

SPORTSMONDAY D1-10

The Irish Win Women's Title
With a 68-66 comeback victory over a stunned Purdue, Notre Dame's women's basketball team captured its first N.C.A.A. championship. D1

OBITUARIES B7

Stanley H. Ruttenberg
A union organizer who was an assistant secretary of labor in the Johnson administration, he was 84. B7

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

Second-Guessing Greenspan
Alan Greenspan, who at 75 is in his 14th year as chairman of the Federal Reserve, is being criticized as never before with the decade-old economic expansion in danger and stock prices tumbling. However fair or unfair the criticism, it gets at a broader question: To what degree can the country count on the Fed chairman and the central bank's control over interest rates to avert a recession? A1

Reality TV Goes Mainstream
Fox, the network that pushed the boundaries of reality television in terms of both violence and sexual content, may have found a new direction for its programming in that genre: mainstream, all-American entertainment. Fox's latest reality series, "Boot Camp," reached more than 15 million people with its debut last Wednesday night and is being embraced by advertisers. C1

Ford Ads Sidestep Safety Issue
When Ford Motor rolls out its extensive new advertising campaign this month for the completely redesigned 2002 Ford Explorer, the company will be dealing with the safety issue by largely ignoring it. C1

Allianz to Buy Dresdner Bank
Allianz, Europe's second-biggest insurer, plans to buy the 80 percent of Dresdner Bank it does not own for about $20 billion. By buying Dresdner, Germany's third-largest bank, Allianz will become an all-purpose European financial conglomerate comparable in breadth and scale to Citigroup. C2

Seeking New Cellular Service
New ICO Global Communications has asked the Federal Communications Commission to let it and rival companies develop land-based cellular service using radio-frequency spectrum reserved for satellite communications. C2

Technology Jobs Go Begging
Despite significant layoffs in the dot-com industry, nearly a half a million information technology jobs could go unfilled this year, a report says. C8

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A14-15

Editorials: Senate passage for reform; the fate of Slobodan Milosevic; America's demographic quilt.

Columns: William Safire and Bob Herbert.

Bridge E4
Public Lives A10
Crossword E6
TV Listings E7
Metro Diary B2
Weather B4

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (92%); SURVEILLANCE & RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (91%); ESPIONAGE (90%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (90%); ARRESTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (87%); PRIME MINISTERS (87%); GUN CONTROL (83%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); HOSPITALS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (74%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (72%); FOOT & MOUTH DISEASE (70%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (70%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (68%); WAR CRIMES (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (66%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (64%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (60%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (60%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (57%); UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (52%); TONY BLAIR (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (87%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); COLORADO SPRINGS, CO, USA (79%) COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); JORDAN (92%); ISRAEL (92%); NETHERLANDS (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); SERBIA (79%); ENGLAND (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); EGYPT (79%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2001 



79 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1579 words

HEADLINE: Suddenly, Critics Are Taking Aim at Greenspan 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 1 

 BODY:
He raised interest rates too much last year, a sudden chorus of critics is saying, and he has not cut them enough this year.
 He was just another dot-com sucker, they say, taken in by the "new economy" claptrap even as the boom in the United States headed inexorably toward a bust. Like those former stock-option millionaires who are now back home cadging room and board from Mom and Dad, they suggest, he could use a dose of humility. 
 With the decade-old economic expansion in danger, stock prices tumbling and the Federal Reserve no longer seeming omnipotent or omniscient, Alan Greenspan, who at 75 is in his 14th year as chairman of the central bank, is being second-guessed as never before.
Under his leadership, the Fed is "behind the curve," Merrill Lynch recently told its clients. John H. Makin, an economist at the American Enterprise Institute, a conservative research organization here, called the Fed's current attitude "disconcertingly complacent." A survey of business economists found them less comfortable than at any time in years with the Fed's conduct of monetary policy. 
"The financial markets no longer trust him, and millions of Americans don't, either," the conservative commentator Bill O'Reilly said last week on the Fox News Channel.
However fair or unfair the criticism -- and Mr. Greenspan still has plenty of admirers and defenders -- it gets at a broader question: To what degree can the country count on the Fed chairman and the central bank's control over interest rates to avert a recession?
It was perhaps inevitable that he would be cut down a notch during a period when CNBC is charting the nation's diminished wealth minute by minute and President Bush is warning of trouble ahead -- especially since Mr. Greenspan's reputation as the infallible ringmaster of the economy was no doubt overblown when times were good.
"The perception of him has slipped, although I'm not sure it's warranted," said Robert B. MacIntosh, chief economist at Eaton Vance, a mutual fund manager. "His job is not to give people 40 percent returns on their stock holdings. His job is to have the economy grow at a pace that does not let inflation get out of control."
Mr. Greenspan's job is arguably more complicated than ever before. In an environment in which technology, financial markets and instant dissemination of information and analysis are combining to reshape the economy in ways that no one fully understands, some analysts think the Fed's ability to smooth out the business cycle may be diminished even if its monetary policy is flawless.
If, as some economists say, the basic problem now is that companies overinvested in new equipment and technology, lower interest rates are not going to do much to get them investing again, at least not quickly. 
Under this view, a combination of business overinvestment, high levels of consumer debt, the falling stock market and huge trade deficits leave the nation at risk of a long downturn even if the Fed slashes rates more aggressively than it already has.
Mr. Greenspan has never rejected such a possibility, and has signaled that he is aware of the dangers. But he has generally adopted a more optimistic outlook. And he has said the Fed made the best choices it could over the last few years with the information it had at the time.
"As I look back at that period, I think that the actions we took were right at the appropriate times," Mr. Greenspan told the House Financial Services Committee recently.
Friends and colleagues said he had shown no signs of being bothered by the criticism. His influence in Washington and other world capitals remains immense, and he is as much a presence as ever on the social scene.
His wife, Andrea Mitchell, the NBC News correspondent, threw him a birthday party earlier this month that was attended by Washington's A-list, including Vice President Dick Cheney; Colin Powell, the secretary of state; Paul H. O'Neill, the Treasury secretary; and Katharine Graham of The Washington Post.
"He will shoulder it as he always has, but maybe with 15 more minutes in the bathtub every morning," said William Webster, the former F.B.I. and C.I.A. director, referring to Mr. Greenspan's habit of perusing economic data while he soaks his bad back each morning.
In some ways, his friends and associates say, he seems relieved at no longer being held to unrealistic expectations. He was always uncomfortable, they say, with the notion that he, not advances in technology, drove up the value of so many 401(k) accounts in recent years.
The "maestro," as Bob Woodward called the Fed chairman last year in his book of that name, was rarely shy about using his status to advance his own views or to make the case for his own legacy. But he also seems to have known that the day would almost certainly come when he would fail to live up to his own billing.
After being described at a hearing last year by Senator Phil Gramm of Texas, a Republican, as a "national phenomenon" and an oracle, Mr. Greenspan responded that oracles' insights come "from deep depths of thought which are indescribable, unprovable and rarely correct."
Correct or not, Mr. Greenspan's choices have led economists and investors to raise questions about three specific periods of Fed policy making in recent years.
Did the Fed let economic growth, stock market valuations and consumer debt get out of hand by keeping interest rates too low in 1998 and 1999?
Did the Fed then overreact by tightening too boldly in the first half of last year?
And has the central bank been too timid in cutting rates this year?
Framing the debate are the broader issues of whether Mr. Greenspan has been overly optimistic about the economy's long-term potential and whether he has given sufficient weight to the possibility that the long run of prosperity would turn out to be nothing more than the upside of a boom and bust cycle.
"Those who worried about asset price excesses are critical of him," said Robert J. Barbera, chief economist at Hoenig & Company, an investment firm. "Those who are full of supply-side zeal and believed that the Dow could go to 100,000 are giving it to him. And the middle of the roaders are saying that there never was much inflation, so if there's a recession it must be because he made a policy mistake."
The criticism that the Fed tightened the credit reins too much centers on the decision to raise rates last May by half a percentage point, to 6.5 percent, after two smaller increases earlier in the year.
Although the economy was running flat out at the time, the rate increase was labeled by some as overkill that helped stall the economy a few months later. Mr. Greenspan has always said failure to raise rates during a period when demand for investment capital exceeds supply will risk a surge in inflation.
Even so, the Fed was more restrained than in the past. In setting short-term interest rates in recent years, Mr. Greenspan was guided by two basic lines of thinking. The economy, he concluded, was almost certainly capable of higher levels of growth without inflation than in the past because of a sharp gain in the advance of productivity, the basic measure of business efficiency.
At the same time, he came to view the economy as increasingly interlinked with the financial markets.
On the way up, the surge in the value of stocks -- and real estate -- helped fuel consumer spending, which accounts for two-thirds of the economy. But if the bull market were to turn out to be the product of "irrational exuberance," the phrase Mr. Greenspan famously used in December 1996, when the Dow Jones industrial average stood at 6,300, more than 5,000 points below its peak last year of 11,600, the dangers to the economy would be considerable.
Still, in the years after Mr. Greenspan first raised the subject publicly, his thinking evolved substantially. Ultimately, he ended up with a fatalistic view that the central bank could not identify a stock market bubble ahead of time, and that all it could do was act decisively to clean up the mess should the worst happen.
"To spot a bubble in advance requires a judgment that hundreds of thousands of informed investors have it all wrong," Mr. Greenspan said in 1999. "Betting against markets is usually precarious at best."
But by early 2000, Mr. Barbera said, it had to be clear to Mr. Greenspan that the United States had in fact entered bubble territory by anyone's standards. Companies with only flimsy business plans and no earnings were able to raise huge sums of money on Wall Street. Consumers stopped saving. Economic growth hit a pace far higher than what anyone considered sustainable. 
That is why the more penetrating criticism of the Fed, some analysts say, revolves around the argument that the Fed may actually have kept interest rates too low in 1998 and 1999. The central bank had good reasons for doing so -- first, the global financial crisis and then concerns about a run on banks associated with fears about a potential year 2000 computer bug. Failure to ease monetary policy in those circumstances could have risked financial disaster.
The effect, however, may have been to fuel a runaway credit boom.
"There's been too much in the way of assertions that the Fed precipitated this slowdown through excessively tight monetary policy," said a former senior official at the central bank. "It would be more appropriate to criticize the Fed for not being tight enough in the '98-'99 period and thus letting things get up the head of steam they did."

GRAPHIC: Cartoons: The change in opinions on Alan Greenspan: The cartoon at the top was published Jan. 11, 2000, and the bottom one appeared Feb. 24, 2001. (Bruce Beattie/Copley News Service top ; Steve Sack/Tribune Media Services Inc.)(pg. A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); RECESSION (77%); NEW ECONOMY (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); BONDS (73%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); CONSERVATISM (67%); MUTUAL FUNDS (60%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (82%); AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (56%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (82%); SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (56%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (90%); BILL O'REILLY (52%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W; GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2001 



80 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1057 words

HEADLINE: Pataki Assails Bombing Tests At Vieques 

BYLINE:  By SOMINI SENGUPTA 

 BODY:
Chasing the coveted -- and elusive -- Hispanic vote, Gov. George E. Pataki came to East Harlem yesterday to announce that he would travel to the Puerto Rican island of Vieques next week and continue to press Washington to end the Navy's bombing exercises there permanently. 
 As New York governor, Mr. Pataki has no direct involvement with Vieques. But over the last several months, he has staked a claim on the issue, speaking out forcefully for an end to the bombing trials, attending rallies and meeting in February with a fellow Republican, President Bush, and his aides. Just days after he met with the president, Mr. Pataki said yesterday, the administration suspended the bombing exercises, which have not yet resumed. 
 At a speech at the Julia de Burgos Mission for the Arts, Mr. Pataki said he planned to go to Vieques next Monday along with three state commissioners -- of health, environmental conservation and economic development -- to meet Puerto Rico's governor, Sila M. Calderon. Ms. Calderon's victory in last fall's election was in large part due to her fierce opposition to the United States Navy's use of the island for bombing trials. Mr. Pataki said he would talk to residents and, upon his return, present his findings to the Bush administration. 
"I know it is time to stop the bombing but I want to see it in person," Mr. Pataki said. "I want to be there and see it myself, not just for my own knowledge, but so I can go back and go down to meet with President Bush and tell him: 'I have been there, Mr. President. I have seen the devastation. No mas bombas!' "
Mr. Pataki has not yet said if he will run for a third term as governor, though it is widely believed that he will. Vieques is a visceral and vital issue for many Puerto Ricans in New York, the largest and certainly most politically potent group of Latinos in the state. 
Whether Mr. Pataki's stance on Vieques will actually yield votes from Puerto Rican residents in particular, or from Latinos in general, remains unclear. But among the longtime Vieques bombing opponents who gathered yesterday in the East Harlem neighborhood known to residents as El Barrio, the political dimensions of the governor's visit were not lost. 
"It's rare that politicians are looking for our votes," said Gloria Quinones, who heads a group called Todo el Barrio con Vieques. "If he wants to do the right thing for the wrong reason, it's O.K. with us." 
Representative Jose E. Serrano, a Democratic congressman from the Bronx who was born in Puerto Rico, praised the governor's newfound embrace of the antibombing crusade, but he dismissed the notion that it might persuade Hispanic voters to support him. New York Hispanics have been largely Democratic. "He will be surprised to find out that Puerto Ricans will be grateful but will still vote Democratic," Mr. Serrano said in a telephone interview.
Critics say the bombing exercises endanger the lives of the 10,000 residents of Vieques, a small island off eastern Puerto Rico. The death of a Puerto Rican civilian from an errant bomb in 1999 spurred the movement to end the bombing, but Navy officials say that Vieques is its only suitable location for aerial bombing tests. 
Mr. Pataki's visit to East Harlem was short and eclectic. Accompanied by two Democratic lawmakers who represent the area -- State Senator Olga Mendez and Assemblyman Jose Rivera -- Mr. Pataki spoke briefly at the community center, peppering his remarks with "gracias" and shouts of "no mas bombas."
Once, chuckling at his own attempts at Spanish, he told the 100 or so people in attendance, "I don't know if that makes any sense or not, but I'm trying." 
He posed for pictures, watched a group of youths dance to a thumping hip-hop beat in the hall downstairs, and took a one-and-a-half-block walk along Lexington Avenue, past the nail salons and mofongo spots, peeking into a supermarket to shake hands in front of a stack of Bustelo coffee cans. 
One prominent Hispanic leader in New York who was not traveling with the governor yesterday, but whose presence was very much felt, was Dennis Rivera, the president of Local 1199 of the Service Employees International Union, and an outspoken critic of the bombing. Mr. Rivera has perhaps been the person most instrumental in drawing the governor into the Vieques issue. He will also join Mr. Pataki on next week's trip to Vieques. 
Mr. Rivera is a formidable Democratic power broker whose union of health care workers mobilized heavily to support Hillary Rodham Clinton in last year's Senate race. But he has also enjoyed a close relationship with Mr. Pataki for the last few years, since the governor agreed to a health care reform bill that Mr. Rivera's members wanted badly. Mr. Rivera remained neutral in the 1998 election, aiding a Pataki victory. 
When President Bush took office, Mr. Rivera asked the governor to support an end to the Vieques bombing. Mr. Pataki swiftly delivered. In early March, while attending a governor's conference in Washington, Mr. Pataki and Governor Calderon met with President Bush to press the case. Five days later, Donald H. Rumsfeld, the secretary of defense, suspended bombing.
"I think certainly the fact that he's prepared to stand with the people of Vieques on the most important issue in Puerto Rico means, I think, he will endear himself to the Puerto Rican people," Mr. Rivera said in an earlier interview. 
Mr. Pataki's stand on Vieques carries little political risk for the governor. Few voters other than Puerto Ricans care about it. But Mr. Pataki does stand to gain something. Democrats outnumber Republicans 5 to 3 among the state's registered voters, and Mr. Pataki and his handpicked State Republican Party chairman, Sandy Treadwell, are trying to make inroads into what many Republican strategists see as a weak link in the Democratic coalition.
State Comptroller H. Carl McCall, who is seeking the Democratic nomination in next year's gubernatorial race, said through a spokesman, Steven Greenberg, that he welcomed the governor's support on the issue of Vieques. "Carl has long been opposed to the bombing of Vieques, has long called for a permanent end to the bombing of Vieques, and having the governor arrive at this position now is a good thing," Mr. Greenberg said. "Hopefully the president will recognize there's bipartisan support on this issue."

CORRECTION-DATE: April 7, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article on Monday about a visit by Gov. George E. Pataki to East Harlem to speak out against the Navy's bombing exercises on the Puerto Rican island of Vieques referred incorrectly to the district of Assemblyman Jose Rivera, who accompanied him. Mr. Rivera represents the Bronx, not East Harlem.

GRAPHIC: Photo: George E. Pataki, urging an end to controversial bombing exercises. (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg. B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); NAVIES (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); POLITICS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (53%) UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); JOSE E SERRANO (58%) SENGUPTA, SOMINI; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); CALDERON, SILA MARIA (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) PUERTO RICO (97%); UNITED STATES (94%) PUERTO RICO; VIEQUES (PUERTO RICO); 

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2001 



81 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1018 words

HEADLINE: ARTS IN AMERICA; 
Who's Afraid of Challenges? Not Minneapolis Theaters

BYLINE:  By Stephen Kinzer 

 BODY:
From Minneapolis, near the source of the Mississippi, an extraordinary stream of theater has been pouring forth for years.
 Both the city's nationally known theater companies -- the Guthrie Theater and Children's Theater Company -- recently staged ambitious new productions, one of them a kaleidoscopic fantasy about the river itself. Their success has intensified enthusiasm for a planned building program that would enhance the city's reputation as a vital center of American regional theater. 
 The Guthrie, the brightest jewel in the city's cultural crown, is planning a $100 million three-theater complex on a vacant stretch of the Mississippi shore near the center of town. Advocates say this project would allow the Guthrie to expand its role in local and national cultural life and would also attract development downtown. 
Yesterday the Guthrie announced that it had selected the French architect Jean Nouvel, whose buildings include the Lyon Opera House, to build the new complex. The announcement said he was chosen for this project because of his success in creating "buildings that stretch far beyond traditional constraints."
No one in the Minneapolis area needs reminding of the Guthrie's importance. The theater has more than 30,000 subscribers and presents about 10 plays in each 12-month season. Some are produced there by directors and actors from around the world, while others, like the Royal National Theater's forthcoming "Hamlet" with Simon Russell Beale in the title role, come from other companies.
Critics lavished praise on the recent Guthrie production of Edward Albee's psychodrama "Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?" The roles of the brawling husband and wife were played by Patrick Stewart, a veteran of both the Royal Shakespeare Company and "Star Trek," and Mercedes Ruehl, a winner of both Tony and Academy Awards.
This play, widely accepted as an American classic, reflects the Guthrie's preference for plays that have stood decades or centuries of scrutiny. Mr. Albee does not often allow it to be performed, fearing that its message will be lost if productions do not meet high standards. He helped choose the actors in the Guthrie production and attended rehearsals and previews.
The director, David Esbjornson, developed a close relationship with Mr. Albee, whose "Play About the Baby" he recently directed in its New York premiere. Some directors shy away from "Virginia Woolf" because the film version starring Richard Burton and Elizabeth Taylor seems so definitive. Mr. Esbjornson, however, brought some new touches to the scathing argument this couple carries on for the entire length of the play.
Mr. Stewart's character was less physically aggressive than Burton's was; the liquor he drank over the course of the evening made him steadily more ironic and acerbic but rarely violent. He quietly lacerated his foul-mouthed wife, played by Ms. Ruehl as stalking, energy-packed and explosive. She moved constantly and dominated the stage, while he often faded into the background, sharpening his verbal knives.
If this production showed again what the Guthrie can do, it also reflected the house's shortcomings. The 1,300-seat theater is far too big to present new plays by emerging authors, and the company's smaller space is cramped and in another part of town. Offices, scenery workshops and wardrobes are also scattered.
"The flagship role of this theater has been lost a bit because we're not able to connect with contemporary playwrights," said the artistic director, Joe Dowling, who formerly led the Abbey Theater in Dublin. "If this new complex we're looking at becomes reality, we'll be able to do classic theater, serious modern theater at the top level and also a whole range of other things. And it would do so much for the town. Minneapolis doesn't have a signature building. This could be it."
The Guthrie is asking the city to provide about $25 million worth of site preparations for the new complex and plans to ask the State Legislature to approve another $25 million. The rest is to be raised privately at the same time that the Children's Theater Company hopes to raise $25 to $30 million to renovate and greatly expand its home.
Few people in Minneapolis doubt that both institutions will reach their fund-raising goals. Both are repeatedly cited as examples of the area's community spirit and dedication to culture.
Some people attribute these qualities to socialist traditions brought to the city by Scandinavian immigrants. Others say they arise from a conviction of local boosters that the wintry region needs something to make it attractive.
Children's theater is far less developed in the United States than in Europe and other parts of the world. The Children's Theater Company is unusual not only because it regularly produces large-scale new work in its own space, but also because it often hires directors who have made their names in productions for adults. Like the Guthrie, it has found that a combination of high-level directors, designers and performers can attract big audiences as well as national and even international attention.
In recent years the company has produced work by authors ranging from Dr. Seuss to Garrison Keillor to C. S. Lewis. Among the pieces in development is one based on a Gabriel Garcia Marquez story.
The recent show at the Children's Theater reflected the energy that this company invests in its productions. Called "Mississippi Panorama," it was a combination history lesson, adventure story and ecological fable about the river. It was two years in development, with cast members sometimes going to the extreme of pouring water over themselves in search of ways to convey the qualities of water onstage.
"Theater is important to children because it introduces them to metaphor, visual poetry, choreography -- things that can literally last a lifetime," said Peter C. Brosius, the artistic director. "But one thing we've seen from our success is the challenge of reaching older kids, the teenage audience."
'We need new ways to keep them engaged with theater," he said, adding, "I'm sure the community will respond."

GRAPHIC: Photos: David Esbjornson, above, directed Patrick Stewart and Mercedes Ruehl, left, in "Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?" at the Guthrie Theater. (Judy Griesedieck/The Minneapolis Star Tribune); (Carol Rosegg/"Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?") 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (93%); THEATER & DRAMA (91%); CHILDREN (90%); THEATER COMPANIES (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (70%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (70%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%) THEATER 

ORGANIZATION: GUTHRIE THEATER (MINNEAPOLIS); CHILDREN'S THEATER COMPANY (MINNEAPOLIS) 

PERSON: KINZER, STEPHEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (94%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (90%) MINNESOTA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) MINNEAPOLIS (MINN)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2001 



82 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: FILM REVIEW; 
New Money, Old Divides, High Hopes

BYLINE:  By STEPHEN HOLDEN 

 BODY:
The conflicts roiling inside Luigi (Silvio Orlando), the central character of Mimmo Calopresti's elliptical family drama, "I Prefer the Sound of the Sea," might be seen as emblematic of the social divisions within Italy, a country whose northern and southern regions are as different from each other as those in the United States.
 A wealthy businessman living in Turin, Luigi grew up in the south, in the mostly rural, economically depressed region of Calabria, which forms the toe of Italy's "boot." Returning there for a visit, he exudes the smug magnanimity of a poor boy returning in glory to the scene of his humble roots. 
 Luigi's pride in having risen above his background is one reason he impulsively agrees to help a troubled distant relative, Rosario (Michele Raso), a handsome, unsmiling teenager whose mother was recently murdered and whose father is in prison. Luigi volunteers to bring Rosario back with him to Turin and enroll him in a school for troubled teenagers run by an old friend, Don Lorenzo (Mr. Calopresti), who is a priest. Luigi, who is estranged from his wife, is the father of a teenage son, Matteo (Paolo Cirio), Rosario's age, and he has high hopes that the two boys will become friends. 
The movie, filmed in muted colors by Luca Bigazzi, is a subtle but rambling exploration of how good intentions can go awry, especially if the assumptions underlying those intentions include an unconscious snobbery. The nouveau riche plushness of Luigi's life, it turns out, is far less secure than it initially seemed. The corporation for which he works has put him in charge of investigating and cleaning up some internal corruption, and Luigi discovers to his chagrin that the bosses may be setting him up to take the fall.
The heart of the story is the relationship between Rosario, who is devoutly religious and so private that he seems locked inside himself, and Luigi's spoiled, angry son. Rosario's extreme austerity and self-discipline inspire Matteo to sneer and lash out at his father's luxurious way of life. And in the film's most dramatic scene, one New Year's Eve he goes on a rampage of destruction in his father's home. That rampage was preceded by other acts of theft and vandalism. But Luigi, as naive about his son as he is about his business colleagues, has wrongly assumed Rosario to be the guilty party.
This moody, well-acted film, which New Directors/New Films is showing tonight at 6 and tomorrow night at 9 at the Museum of Modern Art, stirs up many psychological crosscurrents. But its tendency to wander from theme to theme diffuses its emotional impact. The movie doesn't devote nearly enough screen time to the relationship between the teenagers, and the tentative scenes between Luigi and his mistress might as well belong to another movie. The movie's emotional center of gravity isn't Luigi but the enigmatic, poker-faced Rosario, whose ferocious pride and sense of honor set him apart from everyone else. He remains an alien in their midst as well as a mystery to the viewer.
Laurence Attali's short film, "Baobab," which opens the program, is a witty mythical examination of the baobab tree, the national symbol of Senegal. In addition to having many practical uses, these twisting, gnarly trees are invested with centuries of folklore and are thought by many to house spirits that can work practical magic. 
The movie humorously cautions against investing the baobab with too many magical properties. 

I PREFER THE SOUND OF THE SEA

Directed by Mimmo Calopresti; written (in Italian, with English subtitles) by Mr. Calopresti and Francesco Bruni; director of photography, Luca Bigazzi; edited by Massimo Fiocchi; music by Franco Piersanti; art director, Allessandro Marrazzo; produced by Donatella Botti, Roberto Cicutto and Luigi Musini. Running time: 84 minutes. This film is not rated. Shown with a 25-minute short, Laurence Attali's "Baobab," tonight at 6 and tomorrow night at 9 at the Roy and Niuta Titus Theater, Museum of Modern Art, 11 West 53rd Street, Manhattan, as part of the 30th New Directors/New Films series of the Film Society of Lincoln Center and the department of film of the Museum of Modern Art.

WITH: Silvio Orlando (Luigi), Michele Raso (Rosario), Paolo Cirio (Matteo), Fabrizia Sacchi (Serena), Mr. Calopresti (Don Lorenzo), Andrea Occhipinti (Massimo), Enrica Rosso (Elisabetta), Marcello Mazzarella (Vincenzo) and Eugenio Masciari (Cappabianca).

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michele Raso, left, and Paolo Cirio, teenagers in "I Prefer the Sound of the Sea." (Film Society of Lincoln Center) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); ADOLESCENTS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); FILM (86%); MOVIE FILMING (74%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (71%); RELIGION (66%); INVESTIGATIONS (63%); VANDALISM (63%); CORRUPTION (63%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (60%) MOTION PICTURES; REVIEWS 

PERSON: HOLDEN, STEPHEN; CALOPRESTI, MIMMO 

GEOGRAPHIC: TURIN, ITALY (91%) UNITED STATES (92%); ITALY (91%)

TITLE: I PREFER THE SOUND OF THE SEA (MOVIE) 

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2001 



83 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 32 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES 

 BODY:
 YEN DROPS. The yen fell after a report showed Japanese business confidence declined for the first time since 1998. In New York, the dollar settled at 126.66 yen, up from 125.52 yen on Friday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Japanese yen to the dollar, since Oct. 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JAPANESE YEN (90%); TRENDS (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%) CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (90%); MEXICO (79%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (59%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2001 



84 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 887 words

HEADLINE: Old-Economy California Towns Fear a Slump 

BYLINE:  By JAMES STERNGOLD 

DATELINE: NORWALK, Calif., April 2 

 BODY:
Think of an economic slowdown in California, and the image that comes to mind these days is of dot-commers having to make do with town houses instead of mansions or, worse, regular coffee instead of caffe latte. 
 But while much attention has been focused on the evaporation of new-economy start-ups and the impact on the state, many local officials say the parts of California that are increasingly vulnerable to an economic slowdown are working-class cities like this one, a largely Hispanic suburb of Los Angeles filled with new immigrants just gaining a toehold in the middle class. 
 Norwalk, situated in an area whose old-economy industries were badly weakened in the recession of the early 90's, is critically dependent on volatile sales taxes to pay for local services. And because there are signs that consumers are starting to tighten their belts in a city where the retail base is already modest, officials are increasingly worried about the prospect of layoffs and of cutbacks in services like libraries, schools and parks. 
Some other warning signs are also starting to appear. A big contributor to the local economy was a Montgomery Ward, one of the chain of department stores that announced earlier this year that it was going out of business nationwide. In addition, another ailing retailer, Home Base, is closing its store here for what is expected to be a long renovation. Norwalk also used to have a Sears and a J. C. Penney. No more. 
Meanwhile, says Mayor Cheri Kelley, a number of owners of mom-and-pop stores have been telling her that they are witnessing slower sales even as they are also hit by soaring energy prices. 
" 'Vulnerable' is definitely the word for those kinds of towns," said Ted Gibson, chief economist for the California Department of Finance.
"We have not started to get the hard figures on sales, but the warning flags are flying," Mr. Gibson said. "Even if we avoid an actual recession, those are the communities that are going to feel any slowdown, even a small one, and it is likely to be pretty abrupt." 
Norwalk, a compact city of 110,000 people, is a magnet for immigrants who have started to build a nest egg. Many of its modest houses were built in the 1950's and 60's, and sell today for less than $200,000.
A major part of its fiscal problems, and those of the surrounding cities of southern Los Angeles County, involves the way property taxes are managed in California, and dates back to two issues: Proposition 13, the state voter initiative that lowered property tax rates two decades ago, and the measures the state government took to stanch the huge budget deficits of the last recession. 
Proposition 13 froze at 1978 levels the formulas for allocating property tax revenue. This meant that when the county governments collected the taxes and then passed a small portion to local governments, the cities that had not added their own, incremental tax on top received less per capita than cities that had. Norwalk was one of those so-called low-tax cities. 
Then, in the early 1990's, when the state was facing multibillion-dollar deficits, the Legislature ordered the counties to hand over 18 percent of the local property tax revenue to pay for state-run education programs. That took another bite out of the sums that made their way into city coffers. 
As a result of all this, officials here say, exactly one penny of every dollar in property taxes paid by Norwalk's residents winds up back in the city's budget. 
"The state uses cities like an A.T.M. machine," said Mayor Kelley, a local real estate broker. "When they need money, it's ka-ching." 
The problem has been the subject of several government studies, but no action. 
"When you have these growing, young populations in cities in urban areas, with a growing demand for basic services like schools, police and the like, and this kind of fiscal structure, you have the makings of a real crisis," said David Abel, a consultant who was chairman of a panel that produced a report on the problem for the state last year. 
On the other hand, California's cities get to keep a larger share of sales tax revenue: one cent of every 8.25, the tax paid on each $1 in purchases. The result is that while new housing does not generate much tax revenue for cities, retailing does. 
That has led to a fierce competition among cities like Norwalk to attract every national retail chain possible. 
"We have a Circuit City, and a Target is coming," boasted Ernie V. Garcia, the Norwalk city manager. "We're also getting an Office Depot. These are really pluses. This is all we think about, because retail is our lifeblood." 
Just to the north of here, the city of Pico Rivera is also competing for retailers, trying to transform an old 200-acre industrial site into malls, commercial buildings and factories. 
The site was originally home to a Ford factory, which was later bought by Northrop Grumman. But the factory was closed in the early 1990's, and 15,000 jobs were moved elsewhere or eliminated. 
"We lost more than half our tax base in the twinkle of an eye," said Dennis Courtemarche, Pico Rivera's city manager. 
More recently, Pico Rivera, like Norwalk, has also lost a Montgomery Ward, and it is contemplating a difficult future. 
"What contingency plans do we have if things get bad?" Mr. Courtemarche said. "We don't have any."

GRAPHIC: Photo: This ailing retailer is shutting its Norwalk, Calif., store for a renovation that could be lengthy. For Norwalk, the timing could hardly be worse. (Kim Kulish/Saba, for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); NEW ECONOMY (90%); RETAILERS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); SALES TAX (90%); RECESSION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); MAYORS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); COUNTIES (76%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (75%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (75%); DEPARTMENT STORES (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (60%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; HISPANIC-AMERICANS; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; SALES TAX; TAXATION; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) CALIFORNIA; NORWALK (CALIF)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2001 



85 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1117 words

HEADLINE: Yugoslav Chief Says Milosevic Shouldn't Be Sent to Hague 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: BELGRADE, Serbia, April 2 

 BODY:
President Vojislav Kostunica said today that Yugoslavia should not extradite former President Slobodan Milosevic to The Hague to face war-crimes charges, even if the United States again threatens to withhold foreign aid.
 "It should never happen," Mr. Kostunica said in an interview. "I think that it's possible to do everything so that it should never happen." 
 In the negotiations before Mr. Milosevic's surrender to the police early Sunday morning, he sought and received written assurances that his arrest on domestic charges of corruption and abuse of power was not a precursor to a transfer to The Hague.
Mr. Milosevic's arrest was an important event, said Mr. Kostunica, who defeated Mr. Milosevic in elections in September. "Its meaning is to make public all the violations of the law and rights committed by the old regime led by Milosevic, so people can have a complete, clear picture," he said. "There will be no hide-and-seek -- everything will come out. If we speak of the need for social catharsis, then the most important is this one."
Speaking personally, he said, the arrest of Mr. Milosevic ends "a very painful period in our lives and in the lives of all these states, a period of lost years." He said he was reminded of a book by the Yugoslav writer Borislav Pekic, who long lived in exile, about his time in jail in the 1930's for involvement with a pro-democracy group, called "The Years Eaten by Locusts." 
"I think about what this country might have been and the sort of lives we might have lived -- it lasted too long," he said.
He also said that what he considers misguided Western policy, including sanctions and isolation, helped preserve Mr. Milosevic's rule, not shorten it.
Mr. Kostunica criticizes the tribunal at The Hague that prosecutes war crimes in the countries that made up the larger Communist-era Yugoslavia. He contends that it is political and accuses it of practicing selective justice, following shaky rules of law and being biased against Serbia -- with little inclination to indict Croats, Bosnian Muslims, ethnic Albanians or NATO leaders for alleged war crimes. Still, Mr. Kostunica said, "one should make certain compromises" and cooperate with the tribunal.
Yugoslavia will investigate war crimes and help The Hague to do so, he said, and Mr. Milosevic should be brought to trial on war crimes charges, too -- but before domestic courts. Officials of The Hague tribunal say Yugoslavia, as a member of the United Nations, is obligated to turn over any indicted people on its territory, including Mr. Milosevic. Any domestic trial on war crimes charges must still end with his extradition, Carla Del Ponte, the chief prosecutor, has said.
The tribunal's current indictment against Mr. Milosevic, brought by her predecessor, covers the actions by Serbian troops against Kosovo Albanians in 1999. Ms. Del Ponte said today that she was getting ready to sign a new indictment of Mr. Milosevic for the war in Bosnia from 1992 to 1995, though she could use a few more months to prepare the case; her aides say she expects Mr. Milosevic in The Hague this year. Mr. Milosevic is widely blamed for supporting Serbian aggression in Bosnia and in Croatia as Yugoslavia split apart a decade ago.
Mr. Kostunica said he also supported a draft law on cooperation with the tribunal that would allow the extradition of those indicted, both Yugoslav citizens and non-citizens, after a rapid judicial procedure.
But the case of a former president is different, Mr. Kostunica argued, saying most members of the democratic coalition that ousted Mr. Milosevic agree. Even the Serbian prime minister, Zoran Djindjic, who was a strong supporter of the early arrest of Mr. Milosevic, has publicly opposed extraditing Mr. Milosevic to The Hague. Serbia is the dominant entity in the current Yugoslavia.
"It's not legitimate," Mr. Kostunica said. "Other presidents are not being sent to The Hague. I must make some compromises, but there is a line I cannot cross. Even among those people in the Serbian and Yugoslav governments who don't think about legitimacy but about what might be politically useful, the prevailing view is that it would be unacceptable."
He understands the view in Washington that the arrest of Mr. Milosevic just before a March 31 deadline, in order to retain the flow of American aid, is proof that "pressure works."
"But that is incorrect thinking, even when Milosevic was in power," he said.
It was not international pressure that brought down Mr. Milosevic, he said, but the Serbian people themselves, by their votes and demonstrations. "If pressure did not work with Milosevic in power, and now he is no longer in power and we are having a horrible situation in Serbia, what is the sense of such threats now?" he said.
Mr. Kostunica described a bad economy and infrastructure and a ruined system of judicial and political institutions, all of which must be reconstructed, and an unstable regional environment.
The future of Yugoslavia itself is uncertain, with Serbia's tiny sister republic, Montenegro, pressing for independence. And Mr. Kostunica described "dangers from all sides," including Kosovo, southern Serbia and Macedonia, where ethnic Albanian militants are fighting for independence. Albania itself is not especially stable, he noted.
He wants to work with NATO and the NATO-led peacekeepers in Kosovo, he said. "But soldiers with arms should take some risks," he said. 
"It seems that only the lost lives of Serbs, Albanians and Macedonians are acceptable, but not the slightest scratch is acceptable for KFOR soldiers," he said, referring to the NATO-led peacekeeping force. He understands the fear Washington and the peacekeepers have of becoming targets of Albanians in Kosovo, he said, as in Vietnam. "But more must be done, because NATO becomes responsible for what it has not done," he said.
An independent Montenegro would produce more regional instability, he said, noting that more refugees live in Serbia -- about 800,000 -- than the 650,000 people in Montenegro. But he strongly opposes a moratorium or delay on Montenegro's deciding its future, saying Serbia would suffer from any further period of uncertainty.
Yugoslavia does not need more pressure and conditions from the United States and international groups, he said, "but patience, to let us cope with these problems, especially when one considers that the stability of Yugoslavia and Serbia is very important for this unstable region."
What Yugoslavia needs "is something that from the beginning of the American republic is called self-rule and self-government," he said. "How can our people and courts become competent to deal with questions like war crimes unless you're given a chance?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Vojislav Kostunica during the arrest crisis on Saturday. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXTRADITION (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ARRESTS (90%); WAR CRIMES (90%); INDICTMENTS (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); CORRUPTION (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); WRITERS (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%); RELIGION (50%) WAR CRIMES AND CRIMINALS; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EXTRADITION 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: KOSTUNICA, VOJISLAV (PRES); ERLANGER, STEVEN; MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%) SERBIA (93%); NETHERLANDS (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); CROATIA (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); ALBANIA (79%) SERBIA

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2001 



86 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 695 words

HEADLINE: Ford Introduces Its Delayed Internet Shopping Site in 9 States 

BYLINE:  By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: DEARBORN, Mich., April 2 

 BODY:
In another sign that the Internet may not produce quick changes in the way cars are sold, the Ford Motor Company announced today that its much-delayed Internet service had begun doing business, but in only nine states.
 In seven of those states, moreover, the Web site will quote only the manufacturer's suggested retail price; customers will have to send an e-mail message to a dealer to ask for a lower price. Only in New Jersey and Delaware is the new service, known as FordDirect.com, quoting prices below the suggested retail price, and customers must still visit dealers to actually buy a new car or truck. 
 The seven states in which FordDirect.com will list only Ford's suggested retail price are California, Georgia, Massachusetts, Nevada, Tennessee, Texas and Washington. 
FordDirect.com, a joint venture between the automaker and its dealers, acknowledged that its start had been slower than expected. But it said that dealers would be trained to use the system in 15 more states this month and that regulatory approvals were being pursued in these states. When Ford announced FordDirect last August, it predicted that the site would start doing business in California in September and quickly spread to other states.
But the site ran into objections from state regulators and from Ford's own dealers. "We came out as a bunch of boastful dealers, probably, thinking we had everything taken care of," said David Kain, the chief operating officer of FordDirect.
Regulators in many states, including California, demanded that any price quoted on the Web site be made available to all customers, as required by many state rules for advertising. Dealers objected to quoting an online price below the suggested retail price, fearing that this would limit their ability to charge close to the suggested retail prices for customers who were not very good bargainers.
The site does not offer deep discounts, even in New Jersey and Delaware, online customers are quoted the average price that other customers obtain after haggling. But it does allow customers to see a list of which models are on each dealer's lot and how they are equipped. Baba Shetty, an online automotive retailing analyst at Forrester Research Inc., said that the site would probably influence many shoppers but that it was unclear how many people would use it for purchases. 
The Consumer Federation of America, a Washington-based coalition of consumer groups, recently began a campaign to change state regulations on auto sales, which dealers have used to discourage automakers and independent companies from selling directly over the Internet.
The state rules generally require that new cars be sold only by dealers who have been licensed and inspected by the regulators and specifically bar manufacturers from bypassing their dealers. Companies like CarsDirect.com must obtain their cars from dealers rather than purchasing directly from automakers.
Jack Gillis, the federation's auto expert, said that FordDirect's name was a misnomer. "Ford, for the most part, is still inhibited from selling direct to the consumer," he said.
At a news conference today at Ford's headquarters here, FordDirect officials introduced a New Jersey man who, they said, had been the service's first customer. Peter J. Grappuso, a 42-year-old trucking company supervisor from Beachwood, N.J., said he had found the site on the evening of Sunday, March 25, and had been able to buy a dark-red Ford Ranger pickup the next day at a discounted price with only a short visit to a nearby dealership.
Most automakers are using Web sites to provide information about vehicle features but are referring customers to dealers to obtain price quotes. The exceptions are Ford and General Motors, which has also run into obstacles after announcing an ambitious plan last August to set up a Web site with its dealers.
On May 1, the Chevrolet division of G.M. will begin a 90-day test in the Virginia and Maryland suburbs of Washington with Autobytel.com, listing online the inventory of 22 dealers. Each dealer in that experiment will have a choice of listing a discounted price, the manufacturer's suggested retail price or no price. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET RETAILING (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); WEB SITES (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); NEW CAR DEALERS (78%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MFG (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); APPROVALS (68%); JOINT VENTURES (53%); EXECUTIVES (50%) AUTOMOBILES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); SALES 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (96%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (63%)

ORGANIZATION: FORD MOTOR CO; FORDDIRECT.COM 

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%); FORR (NASDAQ) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (63%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (63%) SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & CAR BODIES; 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); DELAWARE, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW JERSEY; DELAWARE

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2001 



87 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1078 words

HEADLINE: NATIONAL BRIEFING 

 BODY:
 WEST

LOS ANGELES: DIRTY TRICK DRAWS INQUIRY -- The district attorney is investigating an apparent dirty trick in the mayoral race in which a woman identifying herself with a name that sounded like Gloria Marina left recorded telephone messages accusing one candidate, former Assembly Speaker Antonio Villaraigosa, of being soft on crime. That outraged County Supervisor Gloria Molina, the city's most prominent Hispanic politician, who has endorsed Mr. Villaraigosa. Rival campaigns have disclaimed any responsibility for the calls, which were apparently aimed at white Jewish women, a key Democratic voter group in Los Angeles. Todd S. Purdum (NYT)

SAN FRANCISCO: SUIT ON BALLAST WATER -- Three environmental groups filed a federal suit to seek controls over ships' discharge of ballast water. The plaintiffs -- the Center for Marine Conservation, San Francisco Baykeeper and the Pacific Coast Federation of Fisherman's Associations -- assert that the practice, permitted under the Clean Water Act, introduces invasive species that cost the economy billions of dollars a year. The Environmental Protection Agency has said it is trying to address the problem.
Evelyn Nieves (NYT)

HAWAII: TEACHER WALKOUT NEARS -- Hawaii's 13,000 public-school teachers are threatening to strike on Thursday if a contract deadlock over pay is not resolved. The Hawaii State Teachers Association is seeking a 22 percent raise over four years, at a cost of $260 million. The state is offering a 12 percent increase, costing about $67 million, saying it cannot afford to give the teachers more. Teachers, who earn $29,000 to $58,000, have been without a contract since January 1999. About 183,000 children, from kindergarten through 12th grade, would be affected. (NYT)

IDAHO: ANTI-ABORTION BILL ENACTED -- Gov. Dirk Kempthorne has signed a bill eliminating state financing of health-related abortions for poor women, saying it will protect "the lives of unborn children." Critics say it will just spark a legal battle, pointing to a 1994 court ruling that prompted the state to pay for health-related abortions under Medicaid. Abortions, meanwhile, are declining in Idaho: there were 867 in 1999, a record low since reporting began in 1977, the state said. The peak was 1981, with 2,706. Sam Howe Verhovek (NYT)

MIDWEST

ILLINOIS: MORE SCRUTINY IN CICERO -- Federal observers will monitor polling places again today in Cicero, where Betty Loren-Maltese, the Republican incumbent, is being challenged by Joseph Mario Moreno in a hotly contested race for president of the Town Board. A court order allows federal authorities to monitor elections for the next five years in Cicero, which has been plagued in the past by political corruption and scandal. Observers were on hand during the primary in February, but found no major problems.
John W. Fountain (NYT)

SOUTH

SOUTH CAROLINA: A BACKTRACK OF SORTS ON HOME INVADERS -- Attorney General Charlie Condon said he would consult with police departments from now on before dismissing charges against residents who attack home invaders. Police officials in Walterboro had earlier said all charges should not have been dismissed against a woman who killed the father of her son. While Mr. Condon, a Republican, agreed to the policy shift, he also accused Gov. Jim Hodges and other Democrats of acting politically in spreading criticism about the home-invasion policy. David Firestone (NYT)

ALABAMA: NO VENUE CHANGE IN CHURCH BOMBING -- A state judge rejected a defense request to move the murder trial of two former Klansmen in the 1963 Birmingham church bombing that killed four black girls. Lawyers for the defendants, Thomas E. Blanton Jr. and Bobby Frank Cherry, had cited a poll showing that 42 percent of local residents thought they were guilty or probably guilty. Dana Beyerle (NYT)

NEW ENGLAND

RHODE ISLAND: LEAD-PAINT SUIT ADVANCES -- A judge gave the state attorney general the go-ahead to sue paint companies for health damage caused by lead paint. The suit, closely watched by other states and counties, seeks compensation for the costs of eliminating the paint and caring for sickened children. Industry lawyers had argued that the state lacked the authority to bring such a suit, which is modeled on nationwide tobacco litigation.
Carey Goldberg (NYT)

FLUSH TIMES ON THE SLOPES -- It has been so bounteous a year, snow-wise, for New England ski resorts that many are extending their seasons. Some big areas, like Cannon Mountain in New Hampshire, plan to stay open through Easter, and a few hope to last into May. New England weather has yet to really warm up, and some areas have received more than 200 inches of snow. This banner year follows several leaner, warmer ones for New England's resorts. Carey Goldberg (NYT)

WASHINGTON

REDUCTION IN CHILD ABUSE -- Reports of child abuse and neglect declined in 1999 for the sixthyear in a row, but there were still 826,000 victims of such maltreatment, the government reported. Tommy G. Thompson, the secretary of health and human services, said the number of abused and neglected children had declined 19 percent since 1993, when the number of victims reached a record of 1,018,692. The government said 1,100 children died as a result of abuse or neglect in 1999. Children younger than a year old accounted for 43 percent of the deaths.
Robert Pear (NYT)

POOR GRADES FOR AIRLINES -- More airplanes are late and more passengers are complaining about service, despite industry promises to do better, a new study by two university professors said. It also found more passengers bumped from overcrowded flights and more mishandled checked baggage. Delta won the highest rating for passenger service among major airlines, followed by Alaska and Southwest. America West received the lowest ranking. (AP)

BUSH AND HISPANIC LAWMAKERS MEET -- President Bush met with 15 of the 18 members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and told them, "I respect the Hispanic culture a lot." A number of members said later that they were optimistic about working with Mr. Bush but had received no commitments that he would side with them on issues like amnesty for certain illegal immigrants, money for some education programs and restoring money for the Small Business Administration. The caucus also gave the president a letter signed by more than 110 members of Congress asking that he permanently stop the Navy exercises on the Puerto Rican island of Vieques, but he had no comment. Katharine Q. Seelye (NYT)

CORRECTION-DATE: April 16, 2001

 CORRECTION:
A report in the National Briefing column on April 3 about a suit by three environmental groups seeking controls over ships' discharge of ballast water misidentified a plaintiff. It was the Northwest Environmental Advocates. The Pacific Coast Federation of Fishermen's Associations was among organizations that petitioned the Environmental Protection Agency about controls, but it did not sue.

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); MAYORS (89%); ELECTION MONITORING (89%); ABORTION (88%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (87%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); SCANDALS (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (76%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (74%); COASTAL AREAS (74%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (74%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (74%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (73%); CORRUPTION (73%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (73%); MARINE RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (73%); TEACHER UNIONS (71%); MEDICAID (71%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (70%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (70%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (67%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (61%); JEWS & JUDAISM (55%); WATER QUALITY (53%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (51%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: CENTER FOR MARINE CONSERVATION (56%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (55%)

PERSON: DIRK KEMPTHORNE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (93%); IDAHO, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2001 



88 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1314 words

HEADLINE: The Albanian Connection; 
As Italians Move Up, a New Group Does the Pizza and Pasta

BYLINE:  By DEXTER FILKINS 

 BODY:
The Famous Famiglia restaurant at Broadway and 50th Street in Manhattan is like many of hundreds of pizzerias in the city. A scene from Venice adorns one wall. Pictures of famous Italian-Americans like Frank Sinatra and Rocky Marciano hang from another. The menu offers "Italian specialties" like eggplant parmigiana and baked ziti.
 The only thing un-Italian about Famous Famiglia is the famiglia that own it: Tony, Paul, John and Giorgio Kolaj, Albanians from the former Yugoslavia. Like hundreds of their compatriots who fled to New York during the cold war or the Balkan conflict of the 1990's, the Kolajs have quietly prospered by opening Italian restaurants, cooking Italian food and playing down their own ethnic origins. 
 "We're very true to the Italian recipes, more than the Italians," said Paul Kolaj, who moved to the United States in 1970, grew up in the South Bronx and opened his first pizzeria in 1986. "I'm not sure I like the idea of advertising the fact that we're Albanian. It's a touchy situation." 
If the culinary affinity doesn't seem obvious -- Albanian cuisine includes dishes like faszle (bean stew), not pizza -- the Albanians say they are capitalizing on experience and geography. Many spent time in refugee camps in Italy, where they learned the food and the language, before immigrating to the United States. During the cold war, many residents of Albania defied their Communist government by tuning into Italian television. Before that, Italy under Mussolini annexed the country of Albania in April 1939, and controlled it until 1945.
Exact numbers are hard to come by, but some restaurateurs say ethnic Albanians own or operate more than 100 Italian restaurants and pizzerias in the metropolitan region, including all five boroughs, Westchester County, Connecticut and New Jersey.
The Kolajs own eight Famous Famiglia restaurants in New York City, and recently edged out larger Italian restaurant chains in a bid to open two pizzerias at Newark International Airport. Paul Vuli owns all or part of four Italian restaurants in the metropolitan region, including Fino in Murray Hill, and he is preparing to open a fifth. Imer Deja and his uncles, cousins and brothers own nine pizzerias in Manhattan and Brooklyn. The Patsy's Pizzeria in East Harlem is now owned by Frank Brija, an Albanian from Kosovo. 
"I've stopped looking for them, there are too many," said Ismer Mejku, who runs the Albanian Yellow Pages, a directory of Albanian-owned businesses in the United States. Mr. Mejku says he plans to run advertisements for about 75 Albanian-owned restaurants in New York in his 2001 edition, the overwhelming majority offering Italian cuisine. "There are hundreds." 
Many of their owners started out much like Mr. Vuli, who left Yugoslavia in 1972 and lived in Italy for a year while waiting to get into the United States. When he arrived in New York at 18, he spoke Italian but almost no English, and started washing dishes in a Brooklyn restaurant for $90 a week. He worked his way up from there, and opened his first restaurant, Piccolo Mondo, in 1977.
"Italy is where it all started," he said, between sips of bottled water at his table in Fino's.
But the link to Italy is not the only reason. Albanians say they are also capitalizing on an industry that has long depended on freshly arrived immigrants to thrive. As Italian-Americans have moved up the economic ladder and out to the suburbs, Albanians are taking over. 
"The Italians can't do the work anymore, they've gotten fat in America," said Joe Carnevalla, an Italian-American whose company supplies groceries to 700 pizzerias in the New York area. "You go into an Italian restaurant now, you see Albanians. You think they're Italian. They speak Italian, they look like us, the food is great." 
They have done much to cultivate such authenticity. While many of the restaurant owners describe themselves as fiercely patriotic, they set aside their ethnic pride when it comes to running their businesses. 
Imer Deja's family bought nine Italian restaurants in New York City and didn't change any of the names. Imer owns Mike's Pizza in Brooklyn; his brother, Zija, owns Charlie's Pizza in Brooklyn; Cousin Bill owns La Belleza Pizza in Manhattan. "If you change the name, you could lose customers," Imer Deja said.
When Gjergj Dedvukaj, an Albanian from Yugoslavia, bought Giovanni's in the Bronx, he decided against changing cuisines. "Customers don't know Albanian food," he said. Some of his customers think he is Italian, and he does little to dissuade them. "They think I'm Giovanni."
The Kolajs, the owners of the Famous Famiglia pizzerias, have made the most of their 14-month stay in a camp in Italy, where their father died and the youngest brother, Giorgio, was born. In a company brochure, the Kolajs don't mention their Albanian roots, but they do say that the family "made the pilgrimage from Italy to America." In their new line of Italian food products, which include spaghetti, marinara sauce and ziti, their mother, Roze Kolaj, is featured on the logo as Mamma Rosa, holding a bunch of tomatoes. 
At the same time, the Kolaj brothers have donated thousands of dollars worth of food and clothing to Albanians dislocated in the Balkans. "We've never forgotten our homeland," Mr. Kolaj said. 
Tony and Tina's Pizzeria in the Bronx is one of the few establishments that show their ethnic roots. The mostly Albanian crew tosses pizza dough beneath flags and posters celebrating the struggle of their brethren in Kosovo. The pizzeria also sells burek, an Albanian meat pie. 
The influx of Albanians into the pizza parlors and restaurants has sparked some skepticism and, perhaps, resentment. Until about a year ago, Sette Colli Ristorante in Brooklyn was owned by an Albanian, who had started the restaurant years before. Then a person of Italian descent bought it from the Albanian. Salvatore Adamita, the new owner, said he purchased Sette Colli last year when people in the neighborhood discovered that the former owner was not Italian. 
"We brought it back to the way it's suposed to be," Mr. Adamita said. "The food is much better. The customers notice." Mr. Adamita said it was only natural that Italians would know better about Italian food. "We originated it," he said. "We know how to do it."
Mr. Adamita seems to be in the minority. For the most part, Italian-American restaurateurs say they don't mind the competition, or the throngs of Albanians eager to buy their establishments. Often, the Albanian buyers have worked in their restaurants for several years.
"I appreciate the Italian guy, I learned from him," said Atli Tocci, an Albanian who bought Portobello Pizzeria Restaurant in Brooklyn from its Italian-American owner five months ago. "I worked here 10 years. I learned how to make good pizza. One day he say to me: You want to buy it? I say, why not?"
Like the Italians before them, the Albanians are using pizzerias to segue into the middle and higher ends of the restaurant business. Bruno Ristorante, a Midtown restaurant specializing in Northern Italian cuisine, was described as "elegant" and "excellent" in the 2001 Zagat Survey. Its owner, Bruno Selimaj, came to the United States from Yugoslavia in 1971 and began his career by washing dishes in an Italian restaurant in Midtown.
In 1999, when Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani led Gov. George W. Bush through the old Italian-American enclave of Belmont in the Bronx, he took him to Giovanni's, owned by Mr. Dedvukaj, an Albanian from Yugoslavia. 
The mayor, Italian by descent, has declared his approval. "The Albanians do a wonderful job of operating Italian restaurants and cooking Italian food." 
But Joe Carnevalla, the food supplier, doesn't think it will last forever. 
"Just wait," Mr. Carnevalla said. "Ten years from now, the Albanians won't want to work, and some other group will come in and do just what they did."

GRAPHIC: Photos: At Tony and Tina's Pizzeria in the Bronx, Simon Kajtazi, a pizza maker, played a cifteli, an Albanian stringed instrument. (Angel Franco/The New York Times)(pg. B1); Bruno Selimaj, the owner of Bruno Ristorante, specializing in Northern Italian cuisine, came to the United States from Yugoslavia in 1971. (Nancy Siesel/The New York Times)(pg. B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); REFUGEES (90%); COOKING & ENTERTAINING (90%); IMMIGRATION (86%); YELLOW PAGES ADVERTISING (78%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (70%); AIRPORTS (50%) RESTAURANTS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ALBANIAN-AMERICANS; PIZZA PIES 

PERSON: FILKINS, DEXTER 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); ALBANIA (96%); SERBIA (92%); KOSOVO (79%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2001 



89 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1032 words

HEADLINE: In Albany, a $2.7 Billion Surplus Squabble 

BYLINE:  By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr. 

DATELINE: ALBANY, April 2 

 BODY:
The Pataki administration said today that the state ended its fiscal year on Saturday with a record $2.7 billion surplus. But the good news served only to worsen the impasse between the governor and legislative leaders over a new spending plan.
 The state's April 1 budget deadline has once again passed without even a hint that a deal might be reached soon. Lawmakers quit work last Thursday afternoon after passing emergency spending bills to keep the state running and took the weekend off. Beginning this Thursday, they are planning to take a 12-day break for Easter and Passover. 
 Gov. George E. Pataki played down the importance of the surplus today, asserting that the state must salt away as much money as possible to hedge against a national economic downturn. As he painted a gloomy economic future, Mr. Pataki said that the surplus stemmed mostly from taxes on stock gains that cannot be counted on again this year.
But Democrats, who control the Assembly, seized on the surplus as evidence that the state has the money to pay for the large increases in school aid, health care and jobs programs they have advocated in their own plan, which would cost $2.29 billion more than the governor's proposal of $83.6 billion. They have accused the governor of grossly underestimating revenues to build up a surplus he can dole out next year before his re-election campaign. 
"These numbers reflect that there is no need to say the sky is falling," said the Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver. "The important thing is we don't have to make cuts to education, we don't have to make cuts to health care."
The Republican Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, said he hoped that the large surplus "could represent a catalyst for us to get started in the budget process." He noted that the surplus was more than enough to cover the $1.2 billion that Senate Republicans have proposed adding to the governor's spending plan, mostly for tax cuts and a $600 million increase in aid to schools.
Still, the two legislative leaders and the governor remain far apart on how much revenue will come in over the next 12 months and on how much of that should be held in reserves. Nearly everyone in Albany is predicting a protracted budget fight that could go right up to the beginning of the next school year.
The April Fool's deadline for the budget has been a fiction for years. The last 17 budgets have been late. Because the state no longer borrows money in the spring to keep schools open from April to June, there are no longer any serious political consequences for missing the deadline. The Legislature and governor have also perfected temporary s1ending bills that keep the government humming along at the previous year's level without a new spending plan. 
This year, however, a confluence of political circumstances and the national economy's skittering downhill portend one of the most overdue budgets in history. 
The main reason for the impasse is that no one has an incentive to compromise early. The lawmakers do not face elections in the fall, so they do not need to rush back to their districts with a budget in hand. 
Mr. Pataki, meanwhile, faces a re-election campaign next year in the teeth of what could turn into a recession. He is seeking to stash away money in reserves to avoid cuts in an election year. The longer he fights for lower spending, the larger the state surplus will be. 
The Democrats in the Assembly are also in no hurry. Mr. Silver, while acknowledging that the economy is slowing, still predicts that revenues will grow more than the governor thinks. He would rather spend that money this yar on a huge increase in school aid than let the governor save them for the election year. New estimates of tax revenues for 2001 in mid-April and mid-July will make it clearer whether the governor's gloomy predictions are right.
The governor opened the bidding in January with a fairly generous $83.6 billion budget, a 5.3 percent increase over all, although the part of the budget financed with state taxes would grow only 3.6 percent. Under longstanding practice, the governor's proposal is considered the floor, and the whole debate is about how much the Legislature will add to it.
But the national economy took a serious downturn in the first quarter of this year. For weeks, Mr. Pataki has been hammering the idea that he will accept no spending increases. He regularly accuses the Legislature of wanting a "spending binge" and raises the specter of 1990, when the Cuomo administration had to cut the budget midyear because it overestimated revenues as a recession hit. "I do not intend to let that happen," he said in an interview on Friday.
Mr. Silver regards Mr. Pataki's stance as a negotiating strategy. The governor is using gloom-and-doom rhetoric, he said, to justify tighter spending and cutting school programs dear to the Democrats, like preschool and all-day kindergarten. "The governor is running for re-election next year, and he doesn't want to spend the money this year," Mr. Silver said.
Mr. Silver's $2.29 billion increase above the governor's plan this year is centered on a commitment to a $1.7 billion increase in school aid in each of the next two years along with increases in Medicaid spending for nursing homes and more money for transportation projects. 
Even if he wanted to, Mr. Silver is not in a good position to force his Democratic conference to rein in spending. Last year, he was nearly ousted as speaker after complaints that he was too autocratic. He was saved largely by the liberal wing of his conference, and it would be difficult for him to say no to its spending priorities. 
As in most years, the Republicans, who control the Senate, have entered the fray in the middle. Mr. Bruno's push to add $1.2 billion to the budget includes a bigger tax cut program than the governor's, at a cost of $260 million in the first year. 
Senator Bruno has blamed Mr. Silver for the deadlock, saying the Assembly has offered an outlandishly expensive budget. He maintains that the Assembly plan would commit the state to more than $8 billion in additional spending two or three years down the road, a contention Mr. Silver says is distorted and untrue. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); EDUCATION FUNDING (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); TAX LAW (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); EASTER SEASON (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: MCKINLEY, JAMES C JR; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2001 



90 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 907 words

HEADLINE: Food Is Not the Enemy 

BYLINE:  By Jeffrey Steingarten; Jeffrey Steingarten is food critic of Vogue magazine and author of "The Man Who Ate Everything."

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO 

 BODY:
Do you remember that food scare a few years ago when everybody was in a twist about the dangers of eating raw shellfish? I was having dinner around that time with an athletic friend, a captain of industry who showed up proudly wrapped in bandages and slings. He had earned these by crashing into a large shrub on the slopes of Aspen. He needed help turning the pages of his menu. And then he refused to share my lavish platter of cold, plump, briny, crisp and succulent oysters. "Raw shellfish," he gulped. "Don't you read the papers?"
 In the days that followed, I tracked down the facts. The Food and Drug Administration had done a risk assessment study and discovered that one out of every 2,000 servings of raw mollusks is likely to make you sick. But you can expect to suffer a substantial injury in every 250 days of skiing, especially if you include gondola crashes and pains that blossom after the hapless skier returns home. So it turns out that a day of skiing is eight times more dangerous than a delicious plate of raw oysters. It was then that I decided to give up skiing so that I could eat oysters to my heart's content. 
 Nobody would recommend a nonchalant attitude toward food safety. I have eaten raw chicken only twice, and that was in Japan, with peanut sauce, because everybody else was doing it. But you would think from reading the newspapers lately that eating is the leading cause of death. I knew something was out of joint less than a month ago when several major papers reported as news that foodborne illnesses cause 325,000 hospitalizations and 5,000 deaths a year: these statistics are two years old. They were published in the fall of 1999 in Emerging Infectious Diseases, a peer-reviewed journal of the federal Centers for Disease Control.
The real news was that the number of food-linked fatalities is only half of what had previously been thought. The newspaper headlines should have read, "Only Half of Americans Previously Feared Food-Dead Truly Are."
Scare stories about the dangers of eating are typically inspired by two groups. First are government agencies and nongovernmental organizations whose attempts to keep us ever vigilant toward dangers of food can sometimes goad us into needless panic. More fundamental are the dark forces of anhedonia, phobia and hypochondria -- that vast, joyless, middle-of-the-road conspiracy that tirelessly toils to deprive the rest of us of the spiritual and earthly pleasures of good and ample eating.
A few years ago these forces caused huge numbers of people to report themselves as lactose-intolerant, a condition that clinical studies at Massachusetts General Hospital and elsewhere have found to be extremely rare. I wonder how they will manifest themselves this year?
We have survived countless alarmist reports about nutrition over the past decade or so, and are stronger for getting past them. Now we know that salt is harmful to only a small part of the population. We know that consuming bushels of fruits and vegetables does not reduce the risk of colon cancer. That drinking alcohol lessens the risk of having a heart attack. That white sugar does not cause hyperactivity in children. That cholesterol accounts for perhaps less than one-quarter of all heart attacks. That eating large amounts of unsaturated fats does not lead to cancer or heart disease. That chocolate does not cause acne or migraines.
The moral of this story is that we are omnivores, and that it is best to eat a little of everything. I have for years maintained two simple yet scientific measures of our progress as eaters. 
One is the Cephalopod Index, or C.I., which is based on our national per capita consumption of squid, cuttlefish and octopus -- not too long ago only the stuff of nightmares among Anglo-American eaters. Well, our C.I. has jumped more than hundredfold in the past 30 years! I'll bet that calamari has practically replaced apple pie as the most ubiquitous item on American menus.
Second is the S.I., or SnackWell's Index, which is based on the annual per capita sales of that line of nonfat (but not unfattening) cookies, and tells us how many Americans have become and remain nutritional nincompoops. The popping of the SnackWell's bubble rivals that of the Nasdaq. And restaurants report that their customers have become more relaxed about new foods. This is all very good news, though not the stuff of headlines.
We are the first society in human history in which gluttony is economically an option for probably half the population. And we may be the first whose appetites are not held in check by religious dietary laws. Without a fear of food in some form, some may think we would be in grave danger of running completely amok.
Perhaps this is why the government keeps trying to take away my Camembert. The Food and Drug Administration has launched a campaign against raw-milk cheeses, but the agency's statistics show that there is much less danger in eating such cheeses than eating, say, a plate of smoked fish. Yet as you can observe every weekend, the entire Upper West Side of Manhattan is allowed to act as though ingesting smoked sturgeon were risk-free.
Even if eating raw-milk cheese were fully as dangerous as skiing, shouldn't I be allowed to choose the risk I am willing to bear? If we allow people the right to pursue happiness by skiing, then let me pursue mine by enjoying a pungent Langres or a potent Livarot, a brie de Melun or a snowy chaource.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Istvan Banyai) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SKIING (90%); FOOD BORNE ILLNESS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); PRODUCT SAFETY (78%); FOOD SAFETY (78%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (74%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (74%); FOOD INTOLERANCES (73%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (71%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (70%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (69%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (68%); PHOBIAS (68%); MENTAL ILLNESS (67%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (65%); NEWS BRIEFS (63%); NUTRITION (62%) FOOD CONTAMINATION AND POISONING 

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (56%)

PERSON: STEINGARTEN, JEFFREY 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2001 



91 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1035 words

HEADLINE: Economic Memo; 
The Downturn New Yorkers May Bring On Themselves

BYLINE:  By LESLIE EATON 

 BODY:
To get a handle on what's going on in New York City's economy, just stumble into the closest Duane Reade. You may see a matron with expensively streaked tresses scanning the shelves of do-it-yourself hair dye. You may see a man with a headache reach past the Advil to the generic ibuprofen. You may see heavy smokers buying cigarettes by the pack instead of the carton.
 What you will definitely see is a change of attitude on the part of formerly free-spending New Yorkers. 
 "People are paying attention to the dollars coming out of their pockets," said Anthony J. Cuti, chairman of Duane Reade, the drugstore-cum-five-and-dime. "They're trying to be frugal."
But while New Yorkers' economic anxiety has been rising, in reality, things are not so bad, at least so far.
True, the economy does not have that shaken-Champagne-bottle fizz it showed just a few months ago. But the housing market remains firm, companies are adding new jobs at a rapid clip, and in February, the most recent month for which figures were available, unemployment was still lower than it had been in any February since 1988. (Mr. Cuti still cannot find enough assistant managers for his stores.) 
So what gives? Why do so many feel so bad when things are still so good?
It is not just an academic question. Some economists worry that by cutting back on spending to prepare for a recession, consumers can turn an economic slowdown into an economic meltdown.
"It matters, because two-thirds of the economy is consumer spending," noted Douglas A. Lonnstrom, a director of the research institute at Siena College, near Albany.
As recently as October, New York City consumers were more confident about the economy than were their counterparts upstate or across the country, according to a monthly telephone survey that Dr. Lonnstrom has been conducting since 1999 in conjunction with a University of Michigan national survey. But in February, the situation reversed, and now city dwellers are as gloomy as people upstate, and more worried than the average American.
This is not a fluke. The Conference Board, a business-backed research group that does a bigger mail survey, found that in March, consumer confidence edged up a tad everywhere in the country, except here. In the Middle Atlantic region, which includes New York, New Jersey and Pennsylvania, consumer confidence continued to slide, and is the lowest by far of any region of the country.
Of course, residents here may just be catching up to the rest of the country. Along the Pacific Coast and in the Midwest, consumer confidence peaked a year ago. In this part of the world, confidence rose through August.
Unless the value of their homes starts to sink and their neighbors become unemployed, people eventually stop believing the bad news, said Ken Goldstein, an economist for the Conference Board. "It becomes a TV show, like who got voted off the island last week," he said.
There are parts of the country where extreme gloom is appropriate. In Kokomo, Ind., the unemployment rate soared to 8 percent in January, from 4 percent in December and 2.3 percent in September, as Chrysler began laying off workers. The number of jobs of any kind fell by several hundred in the last 12 months, according to the United States Bureau of Labor Statistics.
By contrast, in the New York City metropolitan region in the last 12 months, employers created almost 90,000 jobs (almost equal to the population of Kokomo), and the unemployment rate is up just one-tenth of one percentage point over September's level.
Manufacturing is where most of the national economic problems have occurred, but only 6 percent of city workers have factory jobs. Meanwhile, office jobs are still booming.
Look at Manpower Inc., which provides temporary employees, who tend to be the canaries in the economic coal mine. Demand for industrial workers has dropped in New York City and across the country, said Craig Kasper, vice president for Manpower's Eastern region.
On the other hand, there has been a surge of demand for secretaries and administrative assistants in the city, he said. The biggest change has been psychological, Mr. Kasper said. "We're seeing an attitude of cautiousness out there," he said.
The national slump has had a huge effect on two important sectors of New York City's economy: Wall Street and Madison Avenue. 
When General Motors tries to cut costs, one of the first things to go is advertisements. That's bad for the people who create them, and for the publications that profit from them (some magazines that were as thick as phone books now look more like comic books). Combined with the end of the dot-com delirium, the advertising drought has prompted some publishers and news media conglomerates to lay off or buy out workers.
Wall Street, too, is threatening layoffs. But financial analysts note that such announcements are often designed more to impress anxious investors than to give an accurate notion of firing plans.
The Securities Industry Association, Wall Street's trade group, predicts that 9,000 to 12,000 people will lose their jobs this year, mainly because of mergers, said Frank Fernandez, the association's chief economist. But because the firms will also keep hiring, he said, the net job loss will be far lower.
That is not what happened after the stock market crashed in October 1987. By the end of 1988, Wall Street shed more than 10,000 jobs, and by the end of 1991 more than 33,000, a drop of about 20 percent, even though stocks rebounded quickly.
Some Wall Street watchers say that such carnage will not recur, because the financial firms were slower to add people this time around, contenting themselves mainly with paying the same people a lot more money. The average salary on Wall Street rose by almost 50 percent from 1992 to 1999, according to a soon-to-be-released report by H. Carl McCall, the state comptroller. (The average for financial firms, from the bigwigs down to the small fry, was $196,000; the average for everyone in the entire city was $47,000.)
Jason Bram, an economist with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, has been surprised by the low level of layoffs on Wall Street. "But in six months," he added, "who knows?"
Of course, he lives in New York. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); RECESSION (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (87%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (75%); TRENDS (75%); CITY LIFE (73%); CITIES (73%); ANALGESICS (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); SMOKING (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%); JOB CREATION (68%); HOME PRICES (67%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION 

PERSON: EATON, LESLIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (78%); MIDWEST USA (67%); PACIFIC OCEAN (50%) UNITED STATES (98%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2001 



92 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 682 words

HEADLINE: Analysts Warn of a Shortfall In New Jersey's Next Budget 

BYLINE:  By DAVID M. HALBFINGER 

DATELINE: TRENTON, April 2 

 BODY:
The go-go years are gone, nonpartisan fiscal analysts told New Jersey lawmakers today, warning that the decline of the stock market had burst a nearly identical bubble of state tax receipts. The result, they said, could be a $1 billion shortfall in the next state budget.
 In a springtime ritual, the Legislature's independent budget officers picked apart the executive branch's revenue projections for the current fiscal year and the next, which begins in July. And after several years of uninterrupted one-upmanship regarding revenues and surpluses, the message today was that several categories of tax receipts were beginning to decline. 
 The Legislature's budget analysts and Acting Gov. Donald T. DiFrancesco's economic advisers agree that the state economy will continue to grow and that a recession is unlikely. But they differ wildly on the pace of that growth. "To paraphrase somebody who should be Yogi Berra if he isn't, 'The future is not what it used to be,' " said Alan R. Kooney, the legislative budget and finance officer.
Administration officials and Republicans on the Senate Budget and Appropriations Committee played down Mr. Kooney's warnings, made at a hearing here today. But Senator Bernard F. Kenny Jr. of Hudson County, the ranking Democrat on the panel, called the new estimates "a flashing red warning ign," and urged lawmakers to reconsider Mr. DiFrancesco's proposals for $284 million in new spending for such measures as bigger property tax rebates.
Mr. Kooney and David J. Rosen, the Legislature's top revenue analyst, said the administration had vastly overestimated revenues, by $194 million for the fiscal year ending June 30, and by $836 million for the fiscal year ending in June 2002.
Worst of all, they said, capital gains taxes -- which skyrocketed during the late 1990's stock market boom, rising 50 percent last year alone -- would plummet by 25 percent next year.
By contrast, the administration has predicted a rise of 3.5 percent in capital gains taxes next year. That discrepancy accounts for $405 million of what they said could be a shortfall of $1.03 billion in Mr. DiFrancesco's proposed $23.2 billion spending plan. By law, a balanced budget must be in place by July 1.
Mr. Rosen said that estimating next year's capital gains receipts is a dicey proposition this early, because many people wait to book such gains until the end of the tax year. "The true magnitude may not be known until the Division of Revenue finishes opening the envelopes in late April or early May of 2002," Mr. Rosen said. In happier times, he added, treasury officials in Trenton, Washington and other capitals used to speak of the "April surprise."
"We think there could be a surprise of a less pleasant nature in April of 2002," Mr. Rosen said.
Mr. Rosen noted that December quarterly payments of the corporate business tax had fallen by a "startling 22 percent from the prior year's level," and predicted that corporate tax receipts for this fiscal year would be $52 million less than the administration has figured. For the next fiscal year, the State Treasury Department forecasts 7.2 percent growth in corporate taxes, but Mr. Rosen is predicting no growth at all.
He also gave a more cautious estimate for sales tax revenue, predicting 6 percent growth next year, compared with the administration's 7 percent estimate. 
Mr. Rosen said the $194 million in overestimated revenues for the current fiscal year mainly derived from a drop in collections of the inheritance tax. Inheritance taxes were budgeted to rise by 18.3 percent this year, but receipts were down 7.7 percent as of February, he said, adding, "It is unlikely that the inheritance tax will suddenly reverse course and rise strongly over the last four months of the fiscal year." 
New Jersey's inheritance tax is twofold, comprising a tax on transfers of assets to heirs and an estate tax that dovetails with the federal one now under attack by Republicans in Congress. Should the federal estate tax be abolished, the state tax would disappear as well, meaning the loss of more than $100 million in revenue.

GRAPHIC: Photo: David J. Rosen, left, and Alan R. Kooney, analysts in the New Jersey Legislature, said stock market declines have eaten away at tax receipts. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (95%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); RECESSION (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); PROPERTY TAX (72%); TAX RELIEF (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); BONDS (65%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; STOCKS AND BONDS; TAXATION 

PERSON: HALBFINGER, DAVID M; ROSEN, DAVID J; KOONEY, ALAN R 

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2001 



93 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3835 words

HEADLINE: Alienation Is a Partner for Black Officers 

BYLINE:  By C. J. CHIVERS 

 BODY:
One night last December, Officer Eric Josey was driving his Acura Legend on East 138th Street in the South Bronx. He had just completed a tour patrolling Harlem, and had changed into a sweatshirt and jeans. A jacket concealed his 9-millimeter pistol.
 Stopping in traffic, he glanced in his rear-view mirror and saw two men rushing for his car. They were carrying guns. 
 In the instant Officer Josey had to react, he reacted like a cop. He reached for his pistol, pushed open his door and turned his 6-foot-2-inch, 225-pound frame to face what he thought was a carjacking. But his gun snagged on his jacket liner, he said, and the men were upon him. 
One pointed a pistol at his head. Someone swore and ordered him to the ground. Vehicles and men swarmed all around. Officer Josey realized what was happening. He was being stopped by the police.
"I'm on the job!" he shouted, using police jargon for announcing he was an officer. The plainclothes detectives, a Bronx narcotics team, looked flummoxed -- until one found Officer Josey's silver badge under his clothes.
It was in the long moment that followed, as the narcotics team's red taillights faded down the street, that Officer Josey, standing beside his idling car, heart pounding, anger rising, saw more clearly than ever the New York Police Department's capacity to alienate black men, including its own.
"I can't be any more clear about this," he said. "I almost lost my life. If I had gotten my gun out, I would have been dead, and for no other reason except I am black."
For more than 25 years, the department has been unable to integrate a significantly larger proportion of black men into its ranks. In 1974 male black officers formed 7.7 percent of the ranks. The proportion is now 9.2 percent, an increase dwarfed by the advances of Hispanics and women.
Throughout much of this period, the department's leadership has said that diversifying the ranks is a priority, and that doing so can improve the force, deepen public trust and ease the persistent tension between black men on the streets and officers on the job.
In many respects, the difficulties the department has encountered have been tied to larger social forces, including competition for a finite population of qualified black men from private business. But to the black men in uniform, one of the department's deepest problems is the department itself.
Speaking from an accumulation of personal experiences, a wide variety of black officers and detectives say the department has struggled with integration in part because of bungled recruiting efforts, an insincere commitment and promotion rules that leave few black men at the top. 
And they say these problems are compounded by the type of policing that led to the shooting of Amadou Diallo in 1999 and the stopping of Officer Josey, which tend to cement the department's poor reputation among the young black men it most hopes to recruit. Moreover, they say, these tactics, heralded by Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and police officials as a prime factor in the city's crime decline, have eroded the morale and enthusiasm of what is perhaps the greatest asset in its diversity recruiting effort -- its black officers.
"Even those of us who have a zeal for recruiting, and who think the best way to fix this job is to get more blacks to the Police Academy, even for us, there are things that haunt us," Officer Josey said. "We talk about it all the time, about how the department treats black men on the street, and when we see it first-hand it haunts us even more."

The Community
Notoriety Outweighs Ads
In many ways, Police Officer Raymond S. Skeeter is the face the department wants on its recruiting effort. He is a 15-year veteran and a former Police Academy instructor. A Harlem native, he has a master's degree in public administration and moves comfortably through the city's black middle-class circles when in civilian clothes.
But as a recruiter, he finds that his blue uniform can instantly make him and his peers outsiders. "A lot of blacks look at us, like, why are you even here?" he said.
Two years have passed since an all-white team of officers fired 41 bullets at Amadou Diallo, killing him at his doorstep. In this time, the department has undertaken several efforts to spur its diversification.
It has spent more than $20 million in two advertising campaigns and in nearly doubling the recruiting staff. It has printed new pamphlets stressing community service, often with photographs of black officers. It has studied lists of past applicants, looking for minority candidates. Community affairs officers have set up hundreds of recruiting stands in minority neighborhoods.
Howard Safir, the former commissioner, who ordered the first campaign, said the drive to attract more city residents would increase the proportion of minority police officers, who make up 34.8 percent of the force. "We are at our highest percentages ever, and we intend to continue them," Mr. Safir said last year.
The department has also recruited more minority officers through its cadet corps, a program resembling R.O.T.C. that assists college students with tuition in exchange for future police service. And police officials are working with the Board of Education to create a law enforcement high school, from which it will recruit future officers.
"These are substantive efforts," said Yolanda B. Jimenez, deputy commissioner for community affairs.
There have been successes. Recent academy classes have had more Hispanics, Asians and women. The impact can also be seen in the department's changing demographics. The proportion of white male officers dropped from 61.4 percent in 1995 to 58.6 percent last year, and the current academy class is 47.6 percent white, inspiring the mayor to call it the first "majority minority class."
But the progress has largely missed black men, who form 10.8 percent of the current academy class and 9.8 percent of last October's graduating class -- barely different from their percentages in the department.
Police officials give a variety of explanations for the difficulties, including a recently strong economy, which they say lured potential recruits away, and extensive news media coverage of police shootings of unarmed black men and allegations of racial profiling.
The officials also say that the shortage of male black recruits seems tied to recruiting standards. Applicants must be 21 to 34 years old, have completed two years of college and live in the city or a band of nearby counties.
Police officials say the college requirement, added in the mid-1990's, has become a problem because only a small percentage of that region's black men attend college. Andrew A. Beveridge, a sociology professor at Queens College, recently analyzed the city's demographics for The New York Times and found that blacks make up about 20 percent of the 21-to-34-year-old men in the recruiting area, but less than 10 percent of those with the required college work.
And the black men with college experience are being actively recruited by the corporate world, which generally offers more than the department's $31,305 starting salary.
"Since the educational standards went up, we seem to have written ourselves out of the market," said Capt. Timothy J. Hogan, who runs the department's recruiting division.
But the department faces an impediment of its own making, apparent almost wherever it turns: its own reputation.
"Everywhere we go, there is at least one person who has a derogatory comment about the N.Y.P.D., and that person is almost always an African-American," Officer Skeeter said. "We don't get it nearly as much from Hispanics, and just about never from whites. Out there on the streets, young blacks are as wary of us as can be."
The sentiment is strong enough that it appears to create peer pressure as well. In a survey by The New York Times and Quinnipiac University, 64 percent of young blacks said that if they considered joining the department their friends would disapprove. For whites, the number was 43 percent.
Hispanics were more narrowly divided, with 45 percent expecting approval, 46 percent expecting disapproval and 9 percent undecided.
While recent polls have shown that the department receives high approval ratings from residents of many ages, this narrower look, at 18- to 26-year-olds, showed that fear and mistrust of the police contribute to the department's difficulties in diversifying. The poll was conducted in January with 721 young city residents. Its margin of sampling error is plus or minus four percentage points.
Many other divergent opinions, divided along racial lines, were apparent in the responses. For instance, 47 percent of white respondents said they thought the police favored whites over blacks, while 77 percent of blacks thought so. Similarly, 36 percent of whites and 71 percent of blacks said they thought officers were more likely to use deadly force on blacks than on whites.
The negative impressions among young black men were strong enough that many said life as a New York police officer would be socially isolating. When discussing the idea of attending the Police Academy, some invoked the image of Uncle Tom.
"My friends would be like, 'How are you going to join them, man, the way they treat people?' " said Peewee Grant, 20, a security guard in Queens who said he had been stopped and frisked by the police 8 or 10 times in the last four years. " 'You want to be part of that, a Tom?' "
Chief James H. Lawrence Jr., the department's chief of personnel, said that one of the problems in combating these impressions is that recruiters canvass the city for applicants without enough community support.
If the department received consistent help from social clubs and churches, sports leagues and politicians, Chief Lawrence said, it could hire more young black men.
"I don't think enough people have a sense of participation," he said. "I think that is what we really need."
Many black officers agree, but said the recruiting efforts, while apparently sincere, were insufficient. And they said that sometimes the department appeared almost comically clumsy, like the recent practice of distributing recruiting brochures from stands in station houses.
"We can put out all the applications we want in the precincts, but blacks are afraid to go in and get them," Officer Skeeter said. "In this city, the last place in the world a black man wants to be is inside a police precinct."
And there have been times, black officers said, when the department's apparent unease has come from the top.
Detective Jacqueline Parris, president of the Guardians Association, a black fraternal group, recalled how little the brass seemed to know about its own recruiting operation at a moment when it realized it badly needed more black men.
As Diallo protests raged, she said, Mr. Safir's staff summoned her to a meeting at which they pressed her for advice on recruiting minority officers. Upset, she told them that for years blacks who had passed the entrance exam had been turned down for little reason. The blacks the department sought, she said, already had applications in the recruiting files.
"It's that simple," she said, "all they had to do was just look in the drawer."
Recruiters pored over the old test lists, found applicants who had not been hired and urged them to try again. The results can be seen in the academy's two recent classes, which have a slightly increased proportion of black men.
Detective Parris says the current police commissioner, Bernard B. Kerik, has improved communications with black officers. But as the department recruits anew, she said, he has little to work with. The drawer full of old applicants is empty.
"For the next classes," Detective Parris said, "we'll be starting from scratch."

Inside the Force
Many Questions About Commitment

The agenda was straightforward when the City Council called the department's leadership to a hearing in March 2000. Three committees wanted to know how the department had spent more than $10 million on a recruiting campaign and yet faced plunging overall numbers of academy applicants.
Councilman Bill Perkins of Manhattan asked Mr. Safir, then the commissioner, if the more than $1 million the Council had earmarked for the creation of a diversity recruitment unit had been used for that purpose. Mr. Safir responded that the diversity unit had not been formed, because of concerns that an explicit focus on minority recruiting might violate antidiscrimination laws.
The Council members grew restless. The money was gone, but the diversity unit did not exist? And the police officials cited no laws, no court decisions, no advice from other agencies?
To ease the tension, Commissioner Safir agreed to give the Council a written analysis of the legal opinion.
"I think it's incredible," Mr. Perkins said, before Mr. Safir cut him off.
"We will provide the opinion," the commissioner said. "And then you can decide on the adjective, whether it's incredible or not."
A year later, the opinion has not arrived.
For many black officers, the tone and outcome of the exchange illustrates the department's uneven efforts to attract more black men. On one hand, department leaders have extolled the virtues of diversity. On the other, through what black officers see as bureaucratic bungling or even veiled hostility, leaders have signaled that recruiting black men, and improving the equal opportunity record, is no priority at all.
Consistently, the department -- whether through principled disagreement or otherwise -- has resisted initiatives intended to bring more black men into the ranks.
Officer Skeeter recalled that the department's recruiters wanted to work a Kwanzaa festival inside the Javits Convention Center two years ago. But a chief effectively ordered them not to attend. "We called down there and told them we wanted to go, and needed money to pay the admissions fee," he said. "The answer came back, 'You want to go to that, you can set up outside in the street.' "
The recruiters skipped the event.
Similarly, many black officers said the department injured its credibility when Mr. Safir fired Officer Yvette Walton in April 1999, the same afternoon she appeared at a City Council hearing and testified that she had witnessed the Street Crime Unit routinely violate the rights of minority civilians.
Officer Walton was being investigated at the time for possibly abusing sick leave. But black officers said the meaning of her abrupt firing was clear: Don't test the system.
"That was the classic," said one senior police officer. "One day you fire one of us who speaks out about racism. The next day you wonder why more blacks won't join."
A judge ruled last fall that Officer Walton's dismissal was illegal.
Another example that raised questions of the department's sincerity involved the city's Equal Employment Practices Commission, the agency that audits city departments on their record of diversification and compliance with antidiscrimination law.
In 1995, the commission began a routine audit of the department. Its 1997 report shows that the department repeatedly frustrated the auditors. In one case, the department took 19 months to provide answers. In others, it did not answer at all.
"From the outset," the commission wrote, police officials claimed its requests "were burdensome and unnecessary."
The commission was also concerned that minority applicants who passed the entrance exam seemed to be failing the hiring steps -- background checks, medical and psychological exams -- at a higher rate than whites. And it noted that a senior police official claimed that independent reviewers had examined those processes four times, but the department never provided copies of those reports.
Asked about the reports three months ago, the department said it could not find them.
The commission also recommended that the department conduct studies to determine whether its selection processes were skewed against minority applicants. In a written response, Mr. Safir agreed to do them. They have never been done, the department now says.
Mr. Safir, in an interview last week, said that recruiting black men was "very high on the list of priorities," but that he did not know why his staff did not do the studies or send the legal opinion to the Council. He said there were probably valid reasons for the inaction. "In the overall scheme of things, I don't think it is significant," he said.
Others said the inaction raised questions about the department's commitment.
"The department has taken an attitude -- perhaps it picked this up from the public -- that it has three priorities: fighting crime, fighting crime and fighting crime," said Frank R. Nicolazzi, a commission official. "It seemed that our auditors' experience was that equal employment was not receiving a significant amount of attention."

Two Departments
A Double Standard Of Policing
For Officer Josey, life as a police officer has undeniable benefits, offering a measure of respect and financial security and access to the close-knit culture of America's most storied police department. And there have been rich intangibles: the excitement of arrests he made in Harlem's 28th Precinct, the pride he felt as a Police Academy instructor, the challenge he feels now as he trains for the department's Emergency Service Unit.
But he also has real misgivings about his department, from his sense that black men have little chance at promotion to his belief that minority neighborhoods are policed one way and white neighborhoods another, even accounting for relative crime rates.
This tacit double standard, he said, is what led to his being stopped at gunpoint last December, and caused him to file a complaint with the Civilian Complaint Review Board. "I've been around long enough to know that there are two police departments here, the one above 110th Street and the one below it," he said. "Some of the routines you see above Central Park -- the stop-and-frisks, the boxed-in cars, the buy-and-busts at the doorways -- would not be tolerated in the white neighborhoods."
Senior police officials declined to comment in detail on Officer Josey's complaint, saying only that it was under investigation. But the officials have broadly defended their tactics, noting that the numbers of police shootings have declined sharply for several years, as have the number of lawsuits alleging brutality. They also rebut the contention that the department engages in racial profiling,
And while they acknowledge that police aggressiveness has fueled some animus in minority neighborhoods, they also note that those neighborhoods are much safer than they were a decade ago.
"What the department has done is put out more resources where crime is occurring," Chief Lawrence said. "The upside of that is the reduction in crime in many neighborhoods where minorities live."
But Officer Josey's feelings were echoed repeatedly in recent months in extended interviews with dozens of male black officers and detectives. Some, like Officer Josey, are active members of the Guardians or 100 Blacks in Law Enforcement Who Care, two fraternal groups. Many are not.
These officers almost invariably said that the satisfactions of the job were undercut by the department itself. All but three of the several dozen officers interviewed, for instance, said that at some point in their careers they been unnecessarily stopped or hassled, when in civilian clothes, by their white peers. Many spoke of being repeatedly asked to produce identification at night on subway platforms. One officer says he is pulled over in his car at least twice a month. Officer Skeeter said a police cruiser once ran him off the road in Central Park.
"For every African-American who has had this type of thing happen to them, getting stopped, getting frisked, there are probably 200 who have been verbally harassed," said one senior black officer. "The verbal attitudes have more of an effect than dragging people out of their cars, because there is so much of it."
These repeated observations -- by undercover narcotics officers, by senior supervisors, by veteran patrolmen and near-rookies in some of the department's roughest precincts -- echo those noticed by William J. Bratton, Mr. Giuliani's first police commissioner, who said he held several focus groups with black officers in the mid-1990's, and never found a male black officer who had not had a bad encounter with the Police Department when in civilian clothes. Their experiences, recounted repeatedly, together create a portrait of a troubled segment of the police ranks.
Differing emotions pulse through these men. Some talk of anger, others of shame and bewilderment. One said the department was chiefly interested "in the maintenance of white supremacy." Most were circumspect.
One theme, though, was constant: regret.
It was regret chiefly that an institution in which they saw such promise had failed to integrate and elevate significantly more black men, even after a generation of saying it was trying.
And there is a sense that the future looks much like the past. There are important trends: declining percentages of black male supervisors; the makeup of recent academy classes lagging far behind the black representation in the city.
Lt. Eric Adams, president of 100 Blacks in Law Enforcement Who Care, summed up a common sentiment: "I see that in 26 years we've picked up 1.5 percent more black men," he said. "You know what this tells me? It tells me that in another 26 years we'll pick up another 1.5 percent. That's the pace, and the people who run the department seem comfortable with it."
They also said that greatest cost of such powerful disappointment is that the department may have lost the enthusiasm of the very officers most qualified to integrate the job.
Captain Hogan, the recruiting section's commander and a retired police officer's son, says his recruiters sense the loss. He said that with so few black men being promoted in the department, it is often hard to recruit even the sons and nephews of black police officers. For white officers, intergenerational succession is a robust tradition.
"We just don't see the same number of the children of black cops wanting this job," he said.
Officer Skeeter said the phenomenon was one of the strongest indicators of the department's failure; even its own black officers steer their children away, an outcome that he said puts an asterisk beside the city's steep decline in crime in recent years.
"Most minority officers I speak to say they would never let their kids come on this job," he said. "They don't think they've been treated fairly by the department, and wouldn't ever want their children facing the same thing."

The Blues
This is the fourth article of a series examining the challenges and turmoil facing the New York Police Department. Previous articles concerned the department's morale problems, the loss of senior supervisors to retirement and the lack of senior black officers. The first three articles are available at The New York Times on the Web: www.nytimes.com/metro.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Officer Eric Josey says he knows the New York City Police Department can alienate black men: other officers stopped him at gunpoint. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. A1); Lt. Darin Speight embraced Yvette Walton in support after she was fired in 1999. (James Estrin/The New York Times); James H. Lawrence Jr., the Police Department's chief of personnel. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times); Officer Raymond S. Skeeter, a Police Department recruiter, with high school students at a job fair at St. John's University. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); POLICE FORCES (78%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (78%); SHOPLIFTING (72%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (72%); CARJACKING (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); MISCONDUCT (66%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (60%) POLICE; BLACKS; DISCRIMINATION; POLICE BRUTALITY AND MISCONDUCT; SURVEYS AND SERIES; CRIME AND CRIMINALS 

ORGANIZATION: ST JOHN'S UNIVERSITY (59%)

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); CHIVERS, C J; DIALLO, AMADOU; BOSS, KENNETH (POLICE OFFICER); CARROLL, SEAN (POLICE OFFICER); MCMELLON, EDWARD (POLICE OFFICER); MURPHY, RICHARD (POLICE OFFICER) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2001 



94 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1150 words

HEADLINE: COLLISION WITH CHINA: MILITARY ANALYSIS; 
'A Dangerous Game'

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL R. GORDON 

DATELINE: TAIPEI, Taiwan, Tuesday, April 3 

 BODY:
The collision between a Chinese fighter and an United States Navy intelligence plane over the weekend was more than a random accident. It also reflected an increasingly dangerous rivalry between the Chinese and American militaries.
 After decades of keeping watch over its own skies, China's Air Force has begun in recent years to range farther out above the waters beyond its borders. The United States, in turn, has expanded its intelligence-gathering in the region, as Washington's security interests have increasingly turned eastward and away from the cold war theaters of Europe and the Soviet Union. 
 One result is that Chinese military aircraft are coming into precariously close contact with American forces running reconnaissance operations in which they monitor radar signals, electronic communications and the activities of Chinese shore-based units and ships. Under normal circumstances, American spy planes can benefit from the scrambling of adversaries' fighters; it can be another opportunity to gather intelligence about their defense.
This game was a familiar one to American and Soviet cold war intelligence planners. And the American military, which does not tolerate such close surveillance of United States territory, regards these operations as entirely routine.
But the Chinese, who lost an F-8 fighter in the collision, are acutely sensitive about their borders and airspace. They are new and apparently reluctant players in this hazardous cat-and-mouse contest.
"They are the new kids on the block, and they are playing a dangerous game," said David M. Finkelstein, a specialist on the Chinese military. "The game is only as safe as the experience factor of their pilots."
There are several reasons for China's shift in strategy. After years of operating with a second-rate air force, China has managed to acquire warplanes that have the reach to operate over the ocean.
China's changing economy is another factor. Its booming enterprises are no longer clustered in the interior, but along the coast. That has made China's strategists more attentive to the need to patrol the sea lanes and islands off the mainland. 
Then there are tensions with Taiwan, which China regards as a maritime province. In an effort to bully Taiwan into accepting Beijing's sovereignty, China has been marshaling a large missile, naval and air force near the Taiwan Strait. Beijing flexed its muscles by firing missiles off the coast of Taiwan in 1996.
Equally important has been China's attitude toward the American reconnaissance efforts. Shifting its attention to Asia, the American military sees Beijing as a rival, if not a potential enemy. And it has stepped up its spy patrols off the Chinese coast in recent years, former officials say.
For the United States military, such intelligence operations are seen as virtually routine. The American and Russian air forces played the reconnaissance game during the cold war. They send spy planes near the other side's naval battle groups and along the other side's coast full of electronic reconnaissance and other spying gear. The episodes often ended when the adversary scrambled its fighter planes and shooed the intelligence aircraft away.
But in the new arena of the South China Sea, United States, a global power with long experience in gathering intelligence and shadowing rival militaries, is up against an emerging regional power that is moving out of its shell and does not like the old spy etiquette.
After the American Navy EP-3 electronic spy plane collided with a Chinese F-8 and was forced to make an emergency landing at Hainan, Washington told Beijing that international law prevented China from inspecting the spy aircraft and required that it return it and the crew.
But the Chinese military seems to be playing by its own rules. It has not said what it will do with the aircraft and may have entered the plane right after it landed. That could represent one of the few times that the target of an American intelligence mission managed to acquire a spy plane intact. 
China's military flights in the South China Sea are a major departure from its air force's early days. Before the 1958 Taiwan crisis over Matsu and Quemoy, the Chinese could not even prevent Taiwan from flying over its territory.
After that crisis, China regained control over its airspace. The commander of China's Air Force, Wang Hai, later proclaimed that Beijing had embraced a new doctrine in which it would be able to carry out offensive as well as defensive operations.
At first, the new doctrine was mostly talk. But gradually China began to acquire military equipment that gave it an offensive punch, though one with a pitifully small reach compared with the United States'. 
As tensions heated up over Taiwan in the mid-1990's, it began sending its aircraft over the Taiwan Strait. Now, China has acquired more than 50 SU-27 fighter planes from the Russians, as well as 10 SU-30 attack planes and S-300 surface-to-air missiles.
That has given China effective control of half of the Taiwan Strait. 
China has also sent F-8 planes to Hainan. The aircraft is based on a design that the Soviets rejected and that China obtained before its alliance with the Soviet Union collapsed. It looks like a huge MIG-21.
Chinese pilots carry out much less training than their American counterparts. The pilots are guided by radar controllers on the ground, unlike American pilots, who have much more autonomy. And the pilot of the ill-fated F-8 may simply have gotten too close for his own good to the lumbering American spy plane, which Navy officials now say was 80 miles southeast of Hainan when it was intercepted and inside international airspace. 
The Chinese plane may have simply played the game badly, but the Chinese military seems to feel that it is Washington's fault for starting the game in first place. Adm. Dennis Blair, the head of the United States Pacific Command, sought to reassure Beijing that Washington would have expeditiously returned the crew and aircraft had the tables been turned and a Chinese spy plane had made an emergency landing at an American base.
"We are waiting right now for the Chinese government to give us the kind of cooperation that's expected of countries in situations like this," Admiral Blair said on Sunday.
An earlier incident, however, indicated how differently the Chinese think about these matters and how sensitive they can be to the presence of American forces near their forces. 
In 1994, the American aircraft carry Kitty Hawk was steaming west of Japan when two of its S-3 antisubmarine aircraft began to monitor a Chinese submarine. The Chinese were not happy. Several fighters zoomed out to intercept the S-3 planes, and the Chinese later not only protested the episode but also suggested that they would take action next time. The commander of the Kitty Hawk battle group was an up-and-coming naval officer: Dennis Blair. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Military Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY AIRCRAFT (91%); COLD WAR (90%); NAVIES (90%); SURVEILLANCE & RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (89%); ESPIONAGE (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (89%); AIR FORCES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (88%); COASTAL AREAS (88%); AIRLINES (78%); RADAR SYSTEMS (69%) UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MILITARY AIRCRAFT; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY 

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (84%)

PERSON: GORDON, MICHAEL R 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (93%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); TAIWAN (94%); EUROPE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); ASIA (79%) CHINA; EUROPE; RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2001 



95 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 700 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Envoy Has Tried to Bridge Gap 

BYLINE:  By ERIK ECKHOLM 

DATELINE: BEIJING, April 2 

 BODY:
As commander of American military forces in the Pacific, Adm. Joseph W. Prueher, now Washington's ambassador to Beijing, was responsible for sending Navy spy planes to gather data near the coast of China. Indeed, it was Admiral Prueher who sent two carrier battle groups toward Taiwan in 1996, a warning to Beijing to stop testing missiles near the island. 
 But in the following years, Admiral Prueher often said he was worried by the lack of understanding between the Chinese and American militaries. He became a frequent visitor here, cultivating exchanges and personal relationships. 
 Since arriving as ambassador in December 1999, Admiral Prueher (pronouced PROO-er) has worked for deeper relations that would transcend differences over human rights and Taiwan. He has taken pride in what appeared to be his special access to China's secretive military.
On Sunday, the day an American spy plane and a Chinese military jet collided, that special channel appeared closed -- and this showed in the tinge of betrayal in his voice at a rare on-the-record briefing late Monday afternoon. 
"It is inexplicable and unacceptable and of grave concern to the senior leaders in the United States government that the air crew has been held incommunicado for over 32 hours," he told reporters, the strongest language he has used in public since becoming ambassador.
"It's hard for me to explain to Secretary Powell the inability of the aircraft commander to pick up a telephone and call," he said, shaking his head in frustration as he noted his multiple urgent conversations with Secretary of State Colin L. Powell. 
The Ambassador also expressed perplexity at the sparse diplomatic exchanges on the incident that the Chinese had allowed up to that point. "When we don't have communications," he warned, "things tend to fester and get worse." 
The initial Chinese reluctance to enter into extensive talks was a source of frustration and may have reflected indecision or disagreement among China's military and political leaders over what to do. 
China's controlled media did not give the incident splashy treatment today, with most papers carrying the same short account on inside pages. Tonight, the main evening news program repeated the previous day's brief statement by the foreign ministry that the collision was the Americans' fault, and that the plane landed without permission.
On some Internet chat rooms today, many messages called for the seizure of the American plane and its sophisticated equipment, and the arrest of the 24-member crew -- a sign of lurking nationalistic sentiments that the leaders sometimes foster, and sometimes try to dampen. 
No doubt many military and intelligence officials find it hard to imagine giving up what is most likely a serendipitous chance to examine a first-rank spy plane, and to humiliate a superpower that they feel has so often ignored China's concerns.
And there remain conservatives in the military and the Communist Party who would welcome a crisis that slows China's accession to the World Trade Organization, or even a derailing of its bid for the 2008 Olympics, because these moves will expose China to external pressures. 
But President Jiang Zemin and other leaders must also be mulling the potential costs of confrontation. They desperately want the economic benefits of closer integration with the West, and see friendly relations with Washington as the key. And they want the Olympics as a symbol of China's acceptance in the world. 
Even as they warn darkly against arming Taiwan, Chinese leaders have gone out of their way in recent statements to describe the United States and China as inevitable partners, sharing major interests. President Jiang's personal stock could tumble if his policies of deepening relations with Washington and exposing China to global trade are undermined by a bitter conflict now. 
Today Ambassador Prueher -- who used to rely on aircraft carriers to make a point -- used the veiled threats of conventional diplomacy, hinting that any belligerence could result in Taiwan's getting all it asks in sophisticated weaponry. Failure to resolve the situation, he insisted, will cause tensions that "can bleed over into other areas."

CORRECTION-DATE: April 6, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article on Tuesday about the United States ambassador to China, Joseph W. Prueher, misstated the pronunciation of his surname. It is pronounced PREE-er, not PROO-er.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Jiang Zemin met Adm. Joseph W. Prueher during a stopover the Chinese leader made in Hawaii on his way to Washington in 1997. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY AIRCRAFT (92%); SURVEILLANCE & RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (90%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (90%); ESPIONAGE (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); NAVIES (78%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (78%); AIRLINES (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (60%); CHAT ROOMS (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; NAVIES; MILITARY AIRCRAFT; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US 

PERSON: ECKHOLM, ERIK; PRUEHER, JOSEPH W (AMB) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (93%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); HAINAN, CHINA (57%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); TAIWAN (93%) CHINA; HAINAN ISLAND (CHINA); 

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2001 



96 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1225 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
In a major consolidation, Verizon places most of its creative campaign work under one umbrella.

BYLINE:  By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:
IN one of the largest shifts ever of advertising assignments, Verizon Communications, the nation's biggest local telecommunications company, unexpectedly announced yesterday that it would consolidate most tasks involved with creating campaigns aimed at consumers and businesses by naming the New York office of Lowe Lintas & Partners Worldwide to handle those duties.
 Verizon, formed last year by the merger of Bell Atlantic and GTE, spends $400 million to $500 million a year on ads for local, long-distance and broadband services; products like call waiting; promoting the Verizon brand name; and burnishing its corporate image. 
 That spending ranks the consolidation among the biggest ever on Madison Avenue, along with huge shifts like the reassignment of all I.B.M. advertising at Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide in 1994 and virtually all Citibank advertising at the New York office of Young & Rubicam Advertising in 1997.
The consolidation at Lowe Lintas, part of the Lowe Group unit of the Interpublic Group of Companies, is indicative of recent decisions made by giant marketers in competitive categories like telecommunications, automobiles, financial services and soft drinks to unite disparate accounts at a single agency in an effort to spend advertising budgets more efficiently and effectively. 
"Our communications will look like it's coming from the same company," said Janet Keeler, senior vice president for brand management and marketing services at Verizon in New York. "Won't that be nice?"
"We've been through a lot of mergers, and every three years we end up with more and more resources," she added, referring to the numerous agencies inherited from predecessor companies that include Nynex in addition to Bell Atlantic and GTE. "You don't do anything efficiently and effectively when you find yourself in that situation."
The trend to consolidate work predates the current softness in the American economy, but is likely to accelerate as a result because as marketing dollars become increasingly scarce, advertisers seek more bang for the proverbial buck.
"We have a lot of work to do," Ms. Keeler said. "We have a nascent brand, and a lot of opportunity to establish it as the No. 1 telecommunications brand. I want to take advantage of that opportunity."
The consolidation, which came without a review, instantly makes Verizon one of the five largest clients at Lowe Lintas. It also reflects another trend, the increasing willingness of giant marketers to consolidate accounts at units of a single agency company. Though Lowe Lintas has not worked for Verizon before, an Interpublic sibling, Draft Worldwide in New York, has handled several assignments for Verizon and Nynex, including direct marketing campaigns and media buying, a task Draft shares with Zenith Media in New York, a joint venture of the Cordiant Communications Group and the Publicis Groupe.
"Just about all the Verizon business will be under the IPG umbrella," Ms. Keeler said, using the stock ticker symbol for Interpublic. "It's not an accident."
"This allows our work to come together at a very senior level," she added. "That's good for our brand."
The importance of Verizon's selection of another Interpublic agency to handle its consolidated creative duties was underscored by the inclusion in a news release of a statement by John J. Dooner Jr., chairman and chief executive at Interpublic in New York. Mr. Dooner said the choice of Lowe Lintas would provide a "powerful cornerstone" to the Interpublic relationship with Verizon, adding, "Tremendous things will result from this alliance."
In consolidating creative duties at Lowe Lintas, Verizon will end relationships with Arnold Worldwide in Boston, part of the Arnold Worldwide Partners unit of Havas Advertising; the Lord Group in New York, a joint venture of Dentsu and Young & Rubicam Advertising, a division of the Young & Rubicam unit of the WPPGroup; and Temerlin McClain in Irving, Tex., part of True North Communications.
"Unfortunately, as great as the work has been," Ms. Keeler said, "we need one partner."
Lowe Lintas is best known for humorous low-key campaigns for blue-chip brands like Heineken beer, Perdue chicken and Sprite soda. The agency was formed in late 1999 when Interpublic merged the Lowe & Partners Worldwide unit of Lowe with Ammirati Puris Lintas. The move generated considerable turmoil in the form of lost accounts, departures of top executives and the resignation of accounts related to conflicts.
"It's been a rocky period for us," said Gary Goldsmith, chairman and chief creative officer at the United States operations of Lowe Lintas. "It's great to feel we can come out of that with something big like this."
"This is a huge win, both internally and externally," he added. "It sends a pretty clear signal if a brand like Verizon would choose us."
The consolidation also brings the return of Lowe Lintas to the telecommunications category, which it left in March 2000 when a previous client, Ameritech, was acquired by SBC Communications. The loss of the Ameritech assignment, which was consolidated at an SBC agency, GSD&M in Austin, Tex., part of the Omnicom Group, led Lowe Lintas to close its Chicago office.
The Verizon assignment is likely to lead to additional hiring at Lowe Lintas, said Rob Quish, president of the agency's New York office.
"It's very much about building a brand and driving transactions," Mr. Quish said, meaning that Verizon wants campaigns that generate sales as well as increase awareness of the Verizon name.
Several Verizon assignments are unaffected by the creative consolidation. Tierney Communications in Philadelphia, part of True North, will continue as the talent management agency for the Verizon relationship with the actor James Earl Jones. The face and voice of Mr. Jones, who remains under contract to Verizon, are seen and heard in a variety of outlets from television commercials to directory-assistance recordings. That assignment will come under the Interpublic umbrella, too, when Interpublic completes its proposed acquisition of True North, announced on March 19.
Deutsch in New York, recently acquired by Interpublic, continues to handle the Verizon Information Services account. The Burrell Communications Group in Chicago, 49 percent owned by Publicis, continues as the Verizon agency for campaigns aimed at black consumers. And La Agencia de Orsi & Asociados in Los Angeles continues as the Verizon agency for campaigns aimed at Spanish-speaking consumers.
Also unaffected by the creative consolidation is the media assignment shared by Draft and Zenith as well as all creative and media assignments for Verizon Wireless, a joint venture of Verizon and Vodafone. The wireless company uses the Bozell Group in New York for creative tasks -- another assignment that is to come under the Interpublic umbrella, because Bozell is part of True North -- and the Draft-Zenith partnership for media buying.
One important task looming for Lowe Lintas will be to help Verizon develop a theme for all its campaigns. The ads that introduced the Verizon brand used the theme "How to get life done."
"Part of the job of the new agency will be to find the brand summation, if you will," Ms. Keeler said. "It's a work in progress."
Presumably Mr. Jones intoning, "This . . . is Verizon," echoing his mantra for CNN, would be a wrong number. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (91%); BRANDING (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (89%); MERGERS (89%); DIRECT MARKETING (78%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (78%); TRENDS (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (78%); BUDGETS (76%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); BROADBAND (73%); JOINT VENTURES (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); SOFT DRINKS (52%) TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; ADVERTISING; ACCOUNT CHANGES 

COMPANY: LOWE & PARTNERS WORLDWIDE (94%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (92%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (92%); OGILVY & MATHER WORLDWIDE (91%); PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (84%); CORDIANT COMMUNICATIONS GROUP PLC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS; LOWE LINTAS & PARTNERS; ARNOLD WORLDWIDE PARTNERS; LORD GROUP (CO); TEMERLIN MCCLAIN 

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (92%); VZC (LSE) (92%); VZ (NYSE) (92%); PUB (PAR) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (94%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (94%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (92%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (92%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (84%) SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS EX. RADIO; SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES; 

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2001 



97 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 893 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place; 
At American Express, a Fall In Expectations And Earnings

BYLINE:  By RIVA D. ATLAS 

 BODY:
The American Express Company said yesterday that its first-quarter earnings would decline about 18 percent from the period a year earlier, chiefly because of bigger-than-expected losses on its junk bond investments. It also offered a fairly gloomy forecast for its corporate charge-card business.
 The company said that it expected first-quarter earnings of about 39 cents a share -- 24 percent below analysts' expectations, according to Thomson Financial/First Call. The shortfall was mainly a result of a $185 million loss on the write-down and sale of some junk bonds held by its American Express Financial Advisors subsidiary. That loss led the company to forecast an 80 percent drop in earnings at the division, compared with last year's first quarter. 
 American Express also cautioned analysts that the losses, together with a slowdown in its corporate credit card business, meant its overall earnings growth this year would be at the low end of the 12 to 15 percent range it had set as a goal. 
"The economy has deteriorated, and with it our billings have slowed, particularly on the corporate services side," said Gary Crittenden, the company's chief financial officer, in a conference call with analysts yesterday. Around a third of American Express's card revenue comes from cards held by corporate employees.
American Express shares fell $1.59, or more than 3.8 percent, to $39.71 a share yesterday, its biggest one-day loss in two weeks. Analysts and investors said this was a fairly mild reaction to what was a pretty negative forecast by the company.
"Apparently people just want to own this stock," said Moshe Orenbuch, an analyst at Credit Suisse First Boston, who has a hold rating on the stock. "This was pretty significant news."
The stock may also have been bolstered by an article in Business Week's Inside Wall Street column, published last week. The article, predicting a merger between American Express and Citigroup, helped raise the company's stock price by more than $2 a share on Friday.
The loss in American Express's money management and investment advisory division, which accounted for 37 percent of earnings last year, means that the company is exposed to the volatility of the stock and bond markets.
Yet American Express typically trades at a premium to other credit card companies, which do not have money-management divisions, even though profits are growing at some of these credit card companies at a much faster rate. Earnings at Capital One, for example, are growing at twice the rate of American Express, said Michael Hughes, an analyst at Merrill Lynch.
"American Express has never traded like a credit card company," said Mr. Hughes, who currently has a buy recommendation on the stock. "You need to compare it to the market."
American Express has benefited from its strong brand name and the fact that it mostly issues charge cards, not credit cards. Since charge card balances must be paid in full at the end of each month -- unlike credit cards -- American Express customers are less likely to run up unpaid bills. Losses on its charge cards were just 0.36 percent of customer spending at the end of the year, Mr. Orenbuch said.
Still, with the economy weakening, it is unlikely the company's losses will stay this low, Mr. Orenbuch said. During the last recession a decade ago, losses got as high as 0.94 percent, he said.
American Express said yesterday that it expected first-quarter earnings at its Travel Related Services division, which includes the card business, to increase 13 to 15 percent in the first quarter. That division accounted for 69 percent of the company's earnings last year.
When it reported its 2000 results in January, the company warned analysts that additional losses in its junk bond portfolio were possible, but the extent of the losses announced yesterday still surprised many of them. American Express took $123 million in write-downs last year on its $3.5 billion high-yield bond portfolio, including $49 million in the fourth quarter alone. But the junk bond market has rallied this year, and was up about 6 percent in the first quarter, according to a Merrill Lynch index.
American Express's portfolio was hit far worse than the market over all because it owned the debt of companies subject to asbestos litigation, as well as some poorly performing health care investments and movie theater companies. Mr. Crittenden declined to identify the specific companies whose bonds it owned.
The asset management subsidiary's troubles extended beyond losses in the junk bond market. Even without the junk bond losses, the division's earnings should be down 30 percent from the prior year, largely because of the stock market's decline. That led to weaker sales of mutual funds and other investment products managed by the subsidiary, and a decrease in fees for managing the funds.
Investors and analysts who are bullish on the stock said they were betting on a rebound in the economy and in the stock market by the end of the year.
"If you think the economy is going into a recession, you wouldn't want to own this stock," said Thomas Goggins, manager of the John Hancock Financial Industries Fund, which owns American Express shares. "But if you think the economy is heading for a soft landing and corporate spending picks up in the second half of the year, then this is a good stock to own." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (93%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); BONDS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (89%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (77%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (77%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); MERGERS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); CONFERENCE CALLS (70%); CONSUMER LENDING (68%) CREDIT AND MONEY CARDS; FINANCES 

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (98%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (72%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); AMERIPRISE FINANCIAL INC (57%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (53%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO 

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (98%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); AMP (NYSE) (57%); CSGN (SWX) (53%); CS (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (98%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (98%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (53%) SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS; 

PERSON: ATLAS, RIVA D 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2001 



98 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 605 words

HEADLINE: DuPont to Cut 4,000 Jobs to De-emphasize Slow-Growth Areas 

BYLINE:  By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH 

 BODY:
The DuPont Company, seeking to move assets out of slow-growth businesses, said yesterday that it would cut 4,000 jobs, or about 4 percent of its work force, as well as 1,300 contract workers. About half of the cuts will come in DuPont's nylon and polyester businesses, and about 3,000 of the jobs will be eliminated in the United States. DuPont said the action would save $400 million a year. 
 The cuts did not surprise analysts. "The bad economy and the high cost of oil and gas and transportation have put a lot of chemical companies between a rock and a hard place," said David Kerans, an analyst at Argus Research. 
 Gary M. Pfeiffer, DuPont's chief financial officer, said that the cuts would have been made even if the economy had continued to boom. "This is about positioning ourselves for sustainable growth," he said.
As targets for growth, Mr. Pfeiffer cited farm products like seeds and soy proteins; services like safety consulting, and computer products like flat-panel displays. Analysts say that DuPont, which is based in Wilmington, Del., also is doing well with Lycra fibers, Corian countertops, Stainmaster carpet fibers and Tyvek construction materials.
"DuPont has lots of wonderful brands, but it's struggling with its longer-term business vision," said Alexander A. Hittle, an analyst at A. G. Edwards & Sons.
Investors bid up DuPont's shares 26 cents, to $40.96, as the Dow industrials fell more than 1 percent.
"This was just one more data point that shows DuPont moving away from slow-growth businesses," said Gene Pisasale, senior investment officer for Wilmington Trust Company, a major investor in DuPont.
Analysts are split about DuPont's prospects. Thomson Financial/First Call said that seven analysts recommend DuPont stock, while five discourage investors from buying it. None of the analysts changed their recommendations yesterday.
In searching for growth industries, DuPont, whose formal name is E.I. du Pont de Nemours & Company, is the latest chemical company to walk away from the idea of a life sciences industry. Under that concept, biotechnology would be a bridge between agricultural and pharmaceuticals products, with chemical companies active in both areas.
The concept turned out to be unworkable. While the science in the two areas was similar, the end markets were too different.
"It was like saying the same companies should make cars and airplanes because both use steel and engineers," said Sergey Vasnetsov, an analyst at Lehman Brothers.
Monsanto, Novartis and Aventis all have spun off their pharmaceutical arms. In December, DuPont said that it, too, was looking to sell its pharmaceutical business.
With drugs out of the spotlight, DuPont is reorganizing agricultural sales so that farmers looking for pesticides, feed or seed need to deal with only one representative. And DuPont continues to apply biotechnology research to chemicals. It recently introduced a fiber made out of farm waste products like corn husks.
While few analysts argue with DuPont's strategy, several are impatient with its tactics. The company will take a charge of 40 to 45 cents a share against second-quarter earnings; Mr. Vasnetsov notes that between 1993 and 1999, one-time charges accounted for about 18 percent of reported earnings for DuPont, nearly twice the rate of other chemical companies.
"They're like a perennial dieter, they'll shed a few pounds, become complacent, then go through liposuction again," Mr. Vasnetsov said.
Mr. Pfeiffer shrugged off the criticism. "DuPont is a grand old mansion that is undergoing massive renovation," he said, "and that has to bring restructuring charges." 

CORRECTION-DATE: April 10, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day last Tuesday about plans by DuPont to eliminate 4,000 jobs and move away from slow-growth businesses referred incorrectly to three companies -- Monsanto, Novartis and Aventis -- that have separated their pharmaceutical and agricultural divisions or plan to do so. After the drug maker Pharmacia bought Monsanto, it partly spun off Monsanto's agricultural biotechnology business, which kept the Monsanto name; Novartis and what is now AstraZeneca have spun off their crop-science businesses into a new company called Syngenta; and Aventis plans to sell its agriculture division. The three companies did not spin off their pharmaceutical divisions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHEMICALS MFG (92%); CHEMICALS (91%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (89%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (88%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); PESTICIDES (75%); AUTOMOTIVE RESEARCH (74%); FIBERS (71%); CONSTRUCTION (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (70%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); STOCK INDEXES (64%); MONITORS & DISPLAYS (52%) CHEMICALS; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; FINANCES; NYLON; POLYESTER 

COMPANY: E I DU PONT DE NEMOURS & CO (95%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (65%); MONSANTO CO (56%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%); SANOFI SA (52%); NOVARTIS AG (52%)

ORGANIZATION: DU PONT DE NEMOURS, E I, & CO 

TICKER: DUPP (PAR) (95%); DD (NYSE) (95%); MON (NYSE) (56%); SNY (NYSE) (52%); SANF (BIT) (52%); SAN (PAR) (52%); GCVRZ (NASDAQ) (52%); NVS (NYSE) (52%); NOVN (SWX) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325510 PAINT & COATING MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (95%); SIC2851 PAINTS, VARNISHES, LACQUERS, ENAMELS & ALLIED PRODUCTS (95%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (95%); NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (56%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (52%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (52%)

PERSON: DEUTSCH, CLAUDIA H 

GEOGRAPHIC: WILMINGTON, DE, USA (79%) DELAWARE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2001 



99 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 535 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Stocks Decline on Tension Between U.S. and China
Stocks declined broadly and sharply as worries about weak corporate earnings continued and concern mounted about rising tension between the United States and China.
 The Nasdaq composite index fell 57.29 points, or 3.1 percent, to 1,782.97. The Dow Jones industrial average did little better, closing at 9,777.93, down 100.85 points, or just more than 1 percent. And the broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 14.46 points, or 1.3 percent, to 1,145.87. Page C12. 

W. R. Grace Files for Chapter 11
W. R. Grace, the distributor of chemicals and building materials, filed for bankruptcy protection and said it had been unfairly burdened by asbestos lawsuits. The company has been named as the defendant in more than 325,000 personal injury cases and had spent $1.9 billion defending itself. Since 1982, 26 large asbestos companies have filed for bankruptcy protection. Shares of Grace fell 78 cents, or 33.9 percent, to $1.52. C2.

Xerox Postpones Filing With S.E.C.
Xerox said that the filing of its annual financial statements with the S.E.C. would be delayed while its outside auditor conducts "a fuller audit review." C8.

DuPont Plans to Cut 4,000 Jobs
DuPont said that it would cut 4,000 jobs, or about 4 percent of its work force, as well as 1,300 contract workers. C4.

Insurer Offers Aid in For-Profit Plan
In its latest move to win support to become a for-profit company, Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield said that it was ready to establish a $1 billion charitable foundation. C4.

Verizon Consolidates Ad Duties
Verizon Communications said that it would consolidate most tasks involved with creating campaigns aimed at consumers and businesses by naming the New York office of Lowe Lintas & Partners Worldwide to handle those duties. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. C10.

Ford Web Service Begins in 9 States
Ford said that its much-delayed Internet service had begun doing business, but in only nine states. And in seven of those states, the Web site will quote only the manufacturer's suggested retail price. C4.

Shares Fall in Big German Bank Deal
Top management at the German insurer Allianz, including Henning Schulte-Noelle, its chairman, began the uphill task of selling investors on its proposed takeover of Dresdner Bank for about $20 billion in cash and stock. Both companies' stocks declined as analysts offered a positive but tepid assessment of the deal. World Business, Section W.

Air Traffic System Faces an Exodus
The nation's aviation system will soon face the problem of aging air traffic controllers, many of whom will be eligible to retire in the next few years. A16.

Manufacturing Declined in March
Manufacturing activity declined for the eighth consecutive month in March, the National Association of Purchasing Management said, but the economy shows modest growth. C4.

Drug Makers Accused of Collusion
The Federal Trade Commission accused Schering-Plough of paying $90 million to American Home Products and Upsher-Smith Laboratories to delay sales of a low-cost generic drug taken by heart patients. The agency also said that Aventis and Andrx had settled charges that Aventis paid Andrx to delay a generic version of a heart medicine. C12.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 9,777.93 down 100.85Nasdaq composite -- 1,782.97 down 57.2910-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.97% up 0.07The euro -- $0.8810 up 0.0045The dollar -- 126.66 yen up 1.14 Graph: "TODAY" shows factory order figures from August 2000-January 2001.February figures due at 10 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: -0.1% Graph shows W.R. Grace share prices for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); ASBESTOS PRODUCT MFG (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); CHEMICALS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (87%); TAKEOVERS (79%); ANNUAL REPORTS (79%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (75%); TOXIC TORTS (74%); ASBESTOS (74%); ASBESTOS & ENVIRONMENTAL LOSS (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); PERSONAL INJURY (74%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (73%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (69%); LITIGATION (69%); CHARITIES (68%); FOUNDATIONS (68%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (63%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (62%); CHEMICALS TRADE (55%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: ALLIANZ SE (82%); LOWE & PARTNERS WORLDWIDE (81%); EMPIRE BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD (66%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (60%); W R GRACE & CO (57%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (53%)

TICKER: ALV (FRA) (82%); ALV (BIT) (82%); GRA (NYSE) (57%); VZC (LSE) (53%); VZ (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (82%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (82%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (82%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (81%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (81%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (66%); NAICS325130 SYNTHETIC DYE & PIGMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2819 INDUSTRIAL INORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (57%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (53%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2001 



100 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 150 words

HEADLINE: Advice for Greenspan 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Having lived through the 1929 crash and the 11-year recovery period, I worry about the Federal Reserve Board's doing too little, too late in cutting interest rates (front page, April 2). Here's what I think Alan Greenspan should do: 
 *Drop interest rates by at least 1 percentage point now, before the next scheduled Fed meeting, signaling that the Fed will not cut rates piecemeal. This would stimulate private and corporate demand through lower finance charges.
*Come out more forcefully for a retroactive tax reduction now, as a deterrent to a recession. Such a tax cut should be compromised somewhat to give more benefit to middle- and lower-income groups who will spend it more quickly.
Although turning the economy around may be above the Fed's capabilities, these measures could help increase consumer demand.

MELVIN J. GORDON
Chairman, Tootsie Roll Industries
Chicago, April 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); RECESSION (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); TAX RELIEF (69%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (66%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (66%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

COMPANY: TOOTSIE ROLL INDUSTRIES INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; TOOTSIE ROLL INDUSTRIES 

TICKER: TR (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311340 NONCHOCOLATE CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311352 CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED CHOCOLATE (56%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (56%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (90%) GORDON, MELVIN J; GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2001 



101 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Style Desk; Fashion Page; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 674 words

HEADLINE: Front Row; 
The Tuleh fashion show at Harry Winston uses returned Oscar jewelry as props Paper honors 50 people who are beautiful inside.

BYLINE:  By Ginia Bellafante 

 BODY:
Jewels Worn Once by a Star
Anyone prone to drawing parallels between an economy about as sanguine as a Lars von Trier screenplay and a darker, more constrained current in fashion would have had a challenging time at the Tuleh show last Thursday evening. When Josh Patner and Bryan Bradley, the designers behind Tuleh's brand of garden-party femininity, postponed their fall 2001 show a few months ago, they decided to hold it at Harry Winston, the Fifth Avenue jeweler. 
 As a result of their timing, they had at their disposal the trove of diamond jewels Harry Winston created for the Oscars. Valued from $30 million to $50 million, the jewels had been flown back to New York from Los Angeles under the guardianship of a Brinks courier last week. 
 "There were diamonds everywhere," Mr. Patner said. "I had a six-and-a-half-million-dollar necklace around my neck." Another necklace, containing no fewer than 84 carats, wound up being worn with a print wrap dress five days after the necklace was rejected by Jennifer Lopez as an accessory to the Chanel gown she wore on Oscar night. (Ms. Lopez kept it until just a few hours before the Academy Awards, Carol Brodie Gelles, the publicity director for Harry Winston, said.) 
Another piece, a necklace of pink and yellow diamonds, found its way to a beaded dress presented at the Tuleh show after much back and forth between Mr. Patner and Mr. Bradley. 
"We were fumbling, and after a half-hour fashion conversation, a security guard came over and interjected that he liked that piece with the beaded fabric," Mr. Patner explained.
The clothes in the Tuleh show, presented to a group of 150 editors, buyers and clients ("This was really a client show," Mr. Patner said) did not skimp on that other symbol of opulence, fur. A full-length vest of fox and hand-beaded cashmere was offered as a made-to-order piece. A star-patterned coat that might well attract Ms. Lopez's eye came in sheared beaver.
The star pattern, in fact, was a prevailing theme in the show, which included trousers emblazoned with red stars. "We were imagining a pop star," Mr. Patner said the day after the show, surrounded by the clothes in the designers' studio, "and thinking about what she'd have in her location van." 
Despite their gifts as designers, and despite a following that includes socialites like Aerin Lauder Zinterhofer (who gave a dinner for the team at her apartment after the show), Marina Rust and Samantha Boardman, Mr. Patner and Mr. Bradley are not themselves living the life of designer pop stars with teams of assistants. 
At their studio on Friday, they were themselves still packing spring clothes bound for stores, as they worked to finish a wedding dress for another young social client, Amanda Cutter, who was married about 24 hours later. 
Her mother's Calder-inspired skirt, meant for the wedding, was still on the cutting board.

Not About Beauty Outside
For years, People magazine has offered its readers an annual photo-rich compilation of 50 mainstream celebrities deemed the most beautiful of the year. Now other magazines, ones in which Brad Pitt and Heidi Klum are not represented as the ideal physical specimens of the age, are getting into the fray. For the fourth year, Paper magazine has produced a "50 Beautiful People" issue, and gave a party for it at the Park in Chelsea last night. 
Nylon magazine has also devoted its April issue to recognizing the physically gifted, and that publication, too, celebrated the occasion with a party, last Tuesday at Spa.
While a model, Karen Elson, graces the Nylon cover, and inside the magazine's pages other models, like Amy Lemons, are discovered to be beautiful, Paper chose the designer Tara Subkoff, half of the team Imitation of Christ, as its unconventional cover beauty. 
Inside, Mike Albo, the performance artist, and Phoenix Orion, a rapper, continue the theme, in full-page portraits. 
"This is not about beauty outside," Kim Hastreiter, the co-editor of Paper, explained. "We wanted to do the beautiful people idea but the nonshallow version."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A fur-trimmed windowpane coat from the Tuleh show at Harry Winston. (Corina Lecca) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); FASHION SHOWS (90%); FASHION DESIGN (90%); JEWELRY (79%); CELEBRITIES (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); FABRICS (77%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (75%) APPAREL 

PERSON: JENNIFER LOPEZ (77%) BELLAFANTE, GINIA 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (76%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%) CALIFORNIA, USA (76%); NEW YORK, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2001 



102 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 504 words

HEADLINE: Mubarak Urges Strong U.S. Role on Mideast 

BYLINE:  By MARC LACEY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 2 

 BODY:
President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt urged President Bush today to increase the United States' involvement in the Middle East, but Mr. Bush used their White House meeting to defend his policy of allowing the Israelis and Palestinians to take the lead in seeking peace.
 "I have great hopes that President Bush will do the maximum effort," Mr. Mubarak said at the start of a 40-minute discussion with Mr. Bush in the Oval Office, which was followed by an hourlong working lunch. 
 Mr. Mubarak is the first Arab head of state to visit the new president. The meeting coincided with continued deterioration of the situation in the West Bank and Gaza Strip, where seven months of fighting has left hundreds of Palestinians and Israelis dead. The violence has driven the parties from the negotiating table and prompted each side to blame the other.
Mr. Bush has abandoned the activist peacemaker role of President Clinton in favor of a policy that prods the Palestinians and Israelis to seek their own solutions, with the encouragement of the United States.
"We can facilitate peace; we can't force the peace," Mr. Bush told reporters at the start of the meeting. "And we will use our prestige and influence as best we can to facilitate peace."
Mr. Bush said the first priority, before productive negotiations could begin, was "to try to convince all the parties involved to lay down their arms so there will be less violence." 
Although Mr. Mubarak came to Washington seeking to nudge the United States toward renewed intervention in the region, White House officials portrayed the two leaders as being on the same page. Besides the Middle East, the presidents discussed trade issues, joined by their economic advisers.
"President Bush listened carefully to what President Mubarak had to say," said a senior Bush administration official who briefed reporters after the meeting. "Both presidents are deeply concerned by the continuing violence, and both are actively engaged in efforts to bring about an end to it. For our part, the president stressed that we continue to believe that both sides must take steps now to try to calm the situation."
Bush aides bristle at the notion that they are sitting idly by as the security situation in the Middle East deteriorates. Mr. Bush met with Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel at the White House last month, and he plans a visit with King Abdullah II of Jordan next week. In addition, aides said, Mr. Bush has sought to maintain calm with numerous telephone calls to leaders in the region.
"I think this president has demonstrated in the last two and a half months his own active engagement," the senior administration official said. "He sent his secretary of state to the Middle East for his first trip outside the United States. 
"He has now hosted Prime Minister Sharon. He's hosting President Mubarak this week. He's hosting King Abdullah next week. There will be other visitors coming in the months ahead. He feels quite engaged on this issue, and his team feels quite engaged on this issue."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush with President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt. Of the situation in the Mideast, Mr. Bush said, "We can't force the peace." (Carol T. Powers for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PALESTINIANS 

PERSON: HOSNI MUBARAK (93%); BILL CLINTON (59%) LACEY, MARC; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); MUBARAK, HOSNI (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); ISRAEL (96%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (95%); EGYPT (94%); JORDAN (79%) ISRAEL; EGYPT

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2001 



103 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 640 words

HEADLINE: The Senate's Next Test 

 BODY:
The McCain-Feingold campaign finance bill passed the Senate by a historic margin last night, over the initial opposition of President Bush. Senators John McCain and Russell Feingold put together a bipartisan alliance that whipped the Republican leadership. Now the Senate will embark on an even more decisive test for the G.O.P. leaders and, more important, for Mr. Bush's presidency. Before the end of the week the Senate is to vote on a budget resolution incorporating Mr. Bush's ill-advised $1.6 trillion tax cut. Neither Republicans nor the Democrats were declaring yesterday that they had the votes to pass or reject Mr. Bush's principal domestic initiative. But the White House knows that if Mr. Bush loses on the tax cut after failing to block campaign finance reform, his prestige could be damaged.
 So Mr. Bush and his Republican allies are pressuring a handful of wavering Senate moderates in both parties. Democrats were hopeful yesterday of holding onto 50 votes against the tax cut -- losing one Democrat, Zell Miller of Georgia, but possibly gaining one Republican vote, from Lincoln Chafee of Rhode Island. A pivotal role could be played once again by Senator McCain, of Arizona. He opposed the tax cut in his presidential campaign as too big and too unfair. But he may now stick with the White House because of the opprobrium that would come down on him if he were responsible for a devastating defeat. 
 It is always hard to predict the Senate. But a powerful lesson taught by the campaign finance issue is that when the Senate actually engages in open debate, the dynamics can change. The amendment process strengthened support for the measure, instead of weakening it as many had feared. Debate could improve the tax bill, which a majority of senators know is too costly and too weighted to the wealthy and too unlikely to help the economy.
Open debate would establish that this tax cut was conceived two years ago for an economy that has changed. It was crafted to take effect far in the future to assure Americans that it would not fuel inflation by overstimulating an already booming economy and to counter demands for deeper tax reductions from conservative rivals in the presidential race. But Mr. Bush has not really re-engineered his proposal for changed circumstances beyond going along with a last-minute Republican proposal -- now also endorsed by the Senate Democrats -- to reverse the current economic slump with a rapid $60 billion tax "rebate" from surplus funds in the current fiscal year.
Mr. Bush likes to boast that he does not change his thinking to fit the politics of the moment. But it makes no sense to insist, as he is doing, that a faster, fairer tax cut that could actually help the economy be held hostage to plans for a gigantic tax giveaway for the rich to be spread over many years. There is no shame in adjusting to shifting economic needs. An open debate could persuade enough Republicans not to follow the White House lockstep into an obsolete tax measure. Mr. Bush could be forced to listen and negotiate a better tax package.
The other problem with passing the tax cut this week has been cited before by this page. The Senate is being asked by the administration to turn a blind eye to the budget implications of the tax cut, which is certain to cost far more than $2 trillion when it is carried out, using up nearly all the available surpluses and leaving next to nothing for health, education and other needs. Yesterday Mr. Bush belittled the idea that government would have to cut spending. But the more the Senate is allowed to examine the full dimensions of the tax cut and the spending cuts attached to it, the more the senators might rethink the rush to approve it. Leadership comes in many shapes. Frantically passing something out of loyalty to any president is not one of them. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (91%); LEGISLATION (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); TAX REFORM (72%); HOSTAGE TAKING (60%) TAXATION; EDITORIALS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOHN MCCAIN (90%); RUSS FEINGOLD (73%); LINCOLN CHAFEE (58%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2001 



104 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1261 words

HEADLINE: CAMPAIGN FINANCE BILL PASSES IN SENATE, 59-41; HOUSE FOES VOW A FIGHT 

BYLINE:  By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 2 

 BODY:
The Senate voted today to approve the most wide-ranging overhaul of the nation's campaign finance law since the aftermath of the Watergate scandal, shifting the struggle over the influence of money and politics into a divided House.
 The 59-to-41 vote capped a fierce six-year effort by Senators John McCain, Republican of Arizona, and Russell D. Feingold, Democrat of Wisconsin, to ban the large, unrestricted political contributions known as soft money that reached a record of nearly $500 million in the last election. 
 Twelve Republicans joined with 47 Democrats to propel the bill forward, including three, unexpected, senior Republicans -- Senators Pete V. Domenici of New Mexico, Richard G. Lugar of Indiana and Ted Stevens of Alaska. Thirty-eight Republicans and 3 Democrats opposed it. Roll call, Page A14. 
The vote came after two weeks of suspense-filled showdowns on amendments and impassioned debate that held senators unusually riveted as they spoke of their own experiences and frustrations with fund-raising and campaigning in the modern television era. Page A14. 
It was a particular triumph for Mr. McCain, who put his crusade to limit money at the center of his presidential campaign last year.
In his final speech before the vote, he thanked his supporters, saying: "I asked at the start of this debate for my colleagues to take a risk for America. In a few moments, I believe we will do just that. I will go to my grave deeply grateful for the honor of being a part of it."
Senator Mitch McConnell, the Kentucky Republican who has long led the opposition, argued one last time that the Senate was weakening the national political parties and putting candidates at the mercy of outside interest groups. 
"What we have done here," Mr. McConnell said, "in an effort to get the money out of politics, is to get the parties out of politics."
He said the soft money already raised by the parties for 2002 would be unusable and added, "Welcome to the brave new world, where the voices of the parties are quieted, the voices of billionaires enhanced, the voices of newspapers are enhanced." News analysis, Page A14. 
The bill now goes to the House, where it faces an uncertain future, and while President Bush has left open the door to signing any campaign finance bill that "improves the system," he sidestepped a question last week about whether he could support a bill banning soft money.
The bill that passed the Senate today ignores many of the principles Mr. Bush said he wanted to see in any legislation, and the White House had no immediate comment on what the president was likely to do.
After the vote, Mr. McConnell said the numbers showed that Republicans could sustain a presidential veto. Mr. McCain said cautiously that he would not "pop a cork" until the president signed the bill.
The bill would make the most far-reaching changes in how political parties and outside groups participate in campaigns since 1974, when Congress enacted a comprehensive set of contribution and spending limits in response to the Watergate scandal that drove President Richard M. Nixon from office. In 1976, the Supreme Court struck down the limits on campaign spending as an infringement on free speech but upheld the limits on contributions.
At the heart of the McCain-Feingold legislation is a ban on the large unregulated contributions by corporations, unions and individuals to the political parties that are known as soft money. Such contributions, first allowed by a ruling of the Federal Election Commission in 1978, escalated steadily in the 1990's.
In exchange for the ban on soft money, the legislation loosens the caps on regulated contributions for the first time since 1974. Under a compromise struck last week, the limits on how much an individual can give to a federal candidate would rise to $2,000 an election, from $1,000, with subsequent increases adjusted for inflation.
The limit on how much an individual can give cumulatively to candidates and parties would rise to $37,500 a year from $25,000, also indexed for inflation. And those running against millionaires putting their own wealth into the campaigns would be held to less stringent caps.
The bill also seeks to stop the proliferation of attack advertisements by outside groups. It would ban those groups from running issue advertisements that refer to a federal candidate within 60 days of a general election and 30 days of a primary. And it requires television broadcasters to give candidates discount rates for campaign commercials.
The Senate's vote today sent the bill into the House, where similar legislation, sponsored by Representatives Christopher Shays, Republican of Connecticut, and Martin T. Meehan, Democrat of Massachusetts, passed by comfortable margins in 1998 and 1999. Still, it is expected to face stiff opposition. 
Speaker J. Dennis Hastert, Republican of Illinois, condemned the bill last week, and Representative Tom DeLay of Texas, the majority whip, has pledged to "try anything I can" to kill it.
John P. Feehery, a spokesman for Mr. Hastert, said he did not expect it to come to the floor until Congress gave final approval to a tax cut.
Many House Democrats, who provide most of the votes for the previous campaign spending bills, are leery of the increases in regulated contributions, known as hard money, approved by the Senate. In recent years, Republicans have proved far better than the Democrats at raising such money. 
"I am a little troubled," Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the minority leader, said of those provisions.
Mr. Meehan said he and Mr. Shays would have to sound out their supporters on both sides of the aisle about how to handle the hard money increases in the Senate bill. "I would prefer not to have the increase in hard money limits," he said.
Even as Congress weighs eliminating soft money, such fund-raising goes on. Roll Call, the Capitol Hill newspaper, reported today that Mr. Gephardt recently started his own political action committee, which would raise soft money. He joins the ranks of numerous lawmakers in both parties who use such committees to strengthen their standing and influence or seek higher office. Mr. McCain himself has such a committee, although his does not take soft money.
Laura Nichols, a spokeswoman for Mr. Gephardt, said he was raising the money to play a role in redistricting battles across the country that could affect the makeup of the next Congress.
If soft money is banned, Ms. Nichols said, "then we'll fold up tent."
For years, the McCain-Feingold legislation died in Senate filibusters led by Republicans. But senators said several factors gave the issue momentum this year, including Mr. McCain's presidential campaign and the new makeup of the Senate.
Democrats, who provide most of the support for the bill, picked up a net gain of four seats in the 2000 elections, for a 50-50 split in the Senate. Only three Democrats broke with their party today: John B. Breaux of Louisiana, Ben Nelson of Nebraska and Ernest F. Hollings of South Carolina.
Moreover, in the past election the parties broke nearly even in soft money fund-raising, making some Republicans willing to take a second look at the system. And some senators said they were increasingly concerned with attack advertisements by outside groups.
Indeed, an important turning point came in January when Senator Thad Cochran, a conservative Republican from Mississippi, joined forces with Mr. McCain, saying, "Candidates are now becoming defenseless against the huge amounts of money that are now being spent in these campaigns."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Senator John McCain after the Senate passed his bill. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. A1); After the campaign finance vote, Senator John McCain of Arizona, left, held a news conference with other senators who worked for the bill's passage, including Olympia J. Snowe of Maine, Thad Cochran of Mississippi, Russell D. Feingold of Wisconsin and Fred Thompson of Tennessee. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. A14) Chart: "The Bill's Highlights"SOFT MONEYWould prohibit large, unregulated contributions by corporations, unions and individuals to national parties, and would prohibit federal candidates from soliciting such contributions. HARD MONEYWould raise the amount individuals may contribute directly to candidates to $2,000* per election, from $1,000. Would increase the total contributions individuals can make per year to all federal candidates, parties and PAC's to a total of $37,500*, from $25,000. ISSUE ADVERTISINGWould prohibit labor unions, corporations and many interest groups from paying for broadcast advertising clearly referring to a specific candidate within 30 days of a primary or 60 days of a general election. *Indexed for inflation Chart shows party breakdown of the vote. 59: yesIncludes 12 Republicans 41: noIncludes three Democrats(pg. A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGN FINANCE (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (78%); ETHICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); VETO (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); FUNDRAISING (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%) ELECTIONS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FINANCES; ETHICS 

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (90%); MITCH MCCONNELL (89%); RUSS FEINGOLD (88%); THAD COCHRAN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); FRED THOMPSON (58%); PETE DOMENICI (58%); OLYMPIA SNOWE (58%); DICK LUGAR (58%); TED STEVENS (57%) MITCHELL, ALISON; MCCONNELL, MITCH (SEN); MCCAIN, JOHN (SEN); FEINGOLD, RUSSELL D (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (93%); INDIANA, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2001 



105 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1100 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-9

Bush Presses China To Return Plane and Crew
President Bush demanded "the prompt and safe return" of a Navy crew and their spy plane, which made an emergency landing on Hainan island on Sunday after colliding with a Chinese jet. He warned that China's continued silence about when the fliers would be returned could harm the relationship between the two countries. Nothing has been heard from the crew since a radio transmission that American officials said indicated that Chinese troops were about to board the aircraft, which carried advanced surveillance equipment. A1

Two American Embassy officials hoped to meet with the crew members today. A8

The ambassador said the United States "was deeply concerned that the air crew has been held incommunicado." A9

Milosevic Extradition Opposed
President Vojislav Kostunica said Yugoslavia should not extradite former President Slobodan Milosevic to The Hague to face war crimes charges, even if the United States again threatened to withhold aid. He said Yugoslavia would join with The Hague in investigating war crimes, but that any trial of Mr. Milosevic should be before domestic courts. A3

The Bush administration certified that Yugoslavia had met the requirements of an American law on cooperation with the international war crimes tribunal, freeing up economic assistance. But Secretary of State Colin L. Powell qualified the certification, saying Yugoslavia needed to fulfill its intention to "cooperate fully" with the tribunal. A3

Mr. Milosevic faces new charges in connection with organizing an armed group and inciting an attack on the police at his residence over the weekend, the Interior Ministry said. A3

Russian Agrees to Swiss Trial
Pavel P. Borodin, a Russian official detained in New York since January on Swiss charges of laundering millions in kickbacks from Swiss companies that renovated the Kremlin, abandoned his fight against extradition, saying he wanted to go to trial in Geneva to clear his name. A6

More Violence in Mideast
An Israeli helicopter gunship was used in the Gaza Strip to assassinate Mohammaed Abdelal, a member of the militant Islamic Jihad group, the first such killing since Prime Minister Ariel Sharon took office last month. In Bethlehem, in the West Bank, Palestinian gunmen killed an Israeli soldier near the Israeli-controlled shrine of Rachel's Tomb, setting off fierce fighting. Palestinians said at least six people were wounded, including a 4-year-old girl. A6

Egyptian's Advice to Bush
President Hosni Mubarak urged President Bush to increase United States involvement in the Middle East. But Mr. Bush used their White House meeting to defend his policy of letting the Israelis and Palestinians take the lead in seeking peace. A6

World Briefing A9

NATIONAL A10-17

Senate Adopts Overhaul Of Campaign Financing
The Senate voted, 59 to 41, to approve the McCain-Feingold campaign finance overhaul that would ban large, unrestricted "soft money" political contributions. Twelve Republicans joined with 47 Democrats to ensure passage; 38 Republicans and 3 Democrats opposed it. The bill faces uncertain prospects in the House. A1

Record Rise in U.S. Population
The population increased by 32.7 million people, to 281.4 million, in the 1990's, a surge greater than in any other 10-year period, surpassing even the growth between 1950 and 1960 at the peak of the baby boom. The Census Bureau cited waves of young immigrants with families and a steady birth rate that outpaced deaths. A10

Ruling on Police Interrogation
The Supreme Court ruled, 5 to 4, that because the constitutional right to counsel is "offense specific," the police can question a suspect without a lawyer present even if the suspect has already been charged with a closely related crime and is being represented by a lawyer. A17

Providence Mayor Is Indicted
Vincent A. Cianci Jr., the colorful longtime mayor of Providence, R.I., was indicted on federal racketeering charges that accused him and four associates of operating city government and the Friends of Cianci campaign committee as criminal enterprises designed for his enrichment. A10

SCIENCE TIMES F1-8

Einstein Conjecture Confirmed
A photo of a distant exploding star has given astronomers the first direct evidence that a mysterious "negative gravity" force swept through and still pervades the universe. A1

Health & Fitness F5

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

Backer Sought to Buy Car for Congressman
A political supporter of Robert G. Torricelli, David Chang, made a large down payment on a car that Mr. Torricelli had expressed interest in buying during his Senate campaign, in 1996, but Mr. Torricelli scuttled the deal when he learned of it, federal investigators said. Senator Torricelli's office confirmed the outlines of the story, casting Mr. Chang's aborted payments on the car as a well-meaning but improper gratuity from a supporter who was pressing the Democratic congressman from New Jersey for help with a business deal. B1

Backing for Cell Phone Ban
The two top-ranking state legislators and Governor Pataki endorsed the idea of barring the use of hand-held cell phones while driving, strengthening prospects for such a ban. B1

FASHION B11

ARTS E1-8

OBITUARIES B10

SPORTS D1-8

Yankees Win Opener
The Yanks beat Kansas City, 7-3, at Yankee Stadium. Roger Clemens got his 3,509th strikeout, becoming the A.L.'s all-time leader. D1

Strawberry Turns Himself In
Darryl Strawberry, missing since he left a drug treatment center in Tampa late last week, was in a hospital there, in police custody. D3

N.C.A.A. Men's Champs
Duke defeated Arizona, 82-72, and captured its third national title. D1

BUSINESS DAY C1-18

Partial Truth in Labeling
An F.D.A. investigation of dozens of food companies found that despite strict labeling laws, as many as 25 percent of manufacturers fail to list common ingredients that can cause potentially fatal allergic reactions. C1

Slow Times for Amex
American Express said first-quarter earnings would decline about 18 percent from the same period last year, citing losses on junk bonds. It also offered a gloomy forecast for its corporate charge-card business. C1

Record Companies' Online Deal
Bertelsmann, EMI Group and AOL Time Warner struck a deal with RealNetworks, the audio and video distributor, to make music available on the Internet by subscription. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A18-19

Editorials: The Senate's next test; delicate passage with China; a destructive court protest.
Columns: Thomas L. Friedman, Gail Collins.

Crossword E4
TV Listings E7
Public Lives B2
Weather D8

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXTRADITION (91%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ESPIONAGE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SURVEILLANCE & RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (90%); WAR CRIMES (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); NAVIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); ARMED FORCES (78%); ASSASSINATION (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (73%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (73%); APPROVALS (70%); HELICOPTERS (70%); MONEY LAUNDERING (68%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (66%); RELIGION (61%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); HOSNI MUBARAK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (90%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (79%) SOUTH CHINA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); HAINAN, CHINA (58%) CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); ISRAEL (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); SWITZERLAND (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); EGYPT (92%); NETHERLANDS (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2001 



106 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1158 words

HEADLINE: A Wordsmith Who Shapes Bush's Prose 

BYLINE:  By FRANK BRUNI 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 2 

 BODY:
President Bush's detractors will say it is only fitting: the man nominally responsible for making sure that Mr. Bush talks well and sounds good often consumes himself with worry.
 Michael Gerson, the president's chief speechwriter, tears through a dozen or more drafts of important speeches, leaving tooth marks on his pens as he fills a leaning tower of yellow legal pads with his inscrutable scratches and with doodles so baroque that the White House senior adviser, Karl Rove, once told him: "If these ever become part of the presidential records, future historians will say that some deranged person was near the president." 
 When it finally comes time for President Bush to deliver the remarks, Mr. Gerson often vanishes. On the night of Mr. Bush's address to the Republican National Convention last August, Mr. Gerson was not inside the arena in Philadelphia but walking the streets, trying to think of something -- anything -- else. 
"I'm not nervous for him; he always does well," Mr. Gerson was quick to explain, appraising his boss perhaps a bit more generously than others might.
What Mr. Gerson is nervous for is the words, because he knows they help define a presidency.
He is the wordsmith behind such locutions as "the soft bigotry of low expectations," the Cyrano beyond the spotlight's edge. Mr. Gerson's brand of concise, rhythmic and sometimes alliterative descriptions are at the heart of Mr. Bush's speeches, be it the Inaugural Address, with its musings on "a slave-holding society that became a servant of freedom," or recent remarks at Catholic University.
In those, Mr. Gerson wrote that what the pope possessed "is not the power of armies or technology or wealth. It is the unexpected power of a baby in a stable, of a man on a cross, of a simple fisherman who carried a message of hope to Rome."
More than two months into the Bush administration, the oratorical definition of Mr. Bush sought by Mr. Gerson, in concert with others, reveals how the president both sees himself and wants to be seen.
"The ideal is something that can be both direct and elevated at the same time," Mr. Gerson explained over lunch recently in his basement office in the White House.
By the estimates of many political observers, Mr. Gerson has been striking a pretty good balance, or at least hitting some memorable notes.
Hendrik Hertzberg, a former speechwriter for President Jimmy Carter who is now at the New Yorker magazine, twice digressed in articles lambasting Mr. Bush to praise Mr. Gerson, calling the 14-minute Inaugural Address "better than all but a tiny handful of all the inaugurals of all the presidents since the Republic was founded" and even coining a new adjective, "Gersonian."
Eli Attie, who was Vice President Al Gore's chief speechwriter during the 2000 presidential campaign, said, "I don't agree with what his speeches say, but they're beautifully written," in a style that Mr. Attie described as "plain-spoken but high-minded, spare but elegant."
Several speechwriters said Mr. Gerson faced a tricky challenge, because Mr. Bush had cultivated a folksy, self-effacing image that did not leave much room for fancy oratory.
Mr. Attie said that if Mr. Bush "were reading a broad, soaring, Kennedyesque speech with lots of overblown rhetoric, it would look like a suit that didn't fit, because it's not the way he speaks, and people don't believe he thinks like that."
Mr. Bush may appreciate that better than anyone. His requested changes in a speech often have to do with pruning flowery phrases.
Mr. Gerson said he had seen the president take an assertive role in the speechwriting process that contradicted his reputation as a detached chief executive. In the hours before Mr. Bush attended the dedication of a cultural center to Pope John Paul II at Catholic University, the president called Mr. Gerson at least three times to talk about the speech
Mr. Gerson said that of the many White House officials who reviewed the remarks, Mr. Bush alone homed in on a passage that talked about the pope visiting the school in 1976. The president asked whether the pope had, in fact, been the pope then, as the passage implied. The answer turned out to be no, and Mr. Gerson tweaked the wording.
Mr. Gerson has been writing for Mr. Bush for about two years now, and the routine is well established.
Mr. Bush wants the important speeches set in motion weeks or months ahead of time, Mr. Gerson and other aides say. (He is already asking Mr. Gerson and others to present ideas for a series of commencement addresses this spring.)
He wants every speech to follow the simplest of outlines, so that each point flows with an utterly transparent logic to the next. He likes words that are easy to pronounce and hear, and he likes brevity, preferring speeches that are under 15 minutes.
Unlike former President Bill Clinton and Mr. Gore, Mr. Bush seldom writes big chunks of his speeches himself. But he loves to tinker, and it is that tendency, combined with Mr. Gerson's own obsessiveness, that produces so many versions. There were at least 17 formal drafts of the convention speech and at least 18 of the address to Congress.
Many others are involved. The first draft often comes from a writer who works for Mr. Gerson, and Karen P. Hughes, the counselor to the president, usually weighs in before Mr. Bush does.
Ms. Hughes knows Mr. Bush's voice so well that her suggestions almost always echo his.
"Mike kind of wrote above the president on occasion, and Karen kind of helped in that regard to pull it down to Bush-speak," said Mark McKinnon, a senior campaign adviser.
For the address to Congress, it was Mr. Rove and Ms. Hughes who decided that despite the sweeping tax cut at the center of Mr. Bush's agenda, the speech should first go through all the programs he wanted to champion. That way, Mr. Gerson acknowledged, the tax cut would seem like an affordable bonus, not a huge financial commitment dictating every other part of the budget.
Mr. Gerson, 36, has always loved words. In high school in St. Louis, where he grew up, and later at Wheaton College in Illinois, where he studied theology, he wrote political articles that caught conservatives' eyes. That soon led to a job with former Senator Daniel R. Coats, Republican of Indiana, in whose office Mr. Gerson helped lay the groundwork for the "compassionate conservatism" that Mr. Bush later espoused.
Mr. Gerson is an evangelical Christian, and he said religious faith -- coupled with the belief that conservatism should not berate people but inspire them -- was a big part of what bound him and Mr. Bush.
In other regards, they make an odd couple. It is hard to imagine a collection of poetry by T. S. Eliot, which lies just a few feet from Mr. Gerson's desk, on Mr. Bush's night table.
But Mr. Gerson, of course, describes their differences in a way that flatters the president, and he does it succinctly.
"He's gregarious, likable, athletic," Mr. Gerson said. "I'm none of those things."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael Gerson, left, the lead speechwriter for President Bush, with the senior and economic speechwriters, Matthew Scully and David Frum. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (70%); WRITERS (65%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (63%); HISTORY (55%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (54%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (54%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (94%); AL GORE (59%); JIMMY CARTER (59%); KARL ROVE (59%) GERSON, MICHAEL; BRUNI, FRANK; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2001 



107 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Share Prices Hurt by Concerns Over Earnings and China

BYLINE:  By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
Stocks suffered a broad, sharp price decline yesterday, as worries about weak corporate earnings continued and concern mounted about rising tension between the United States and China. 
 Prices were modestly lower through the morning, as traders absorbed a profit warning from American Express and a report from the National Association of Purchasing Managers that suggested the long slide in the manufacturing sector might have turned last month. 
 But the selling accelerated around midday, after President Bush said he was "troubled" that China was not allowing American diplomats to meet with the crew of a United States Navy plane that collided with a Chinese fighter jet on Sunday. 
"Bush's commentary on China is what flipped the switch," said Arthur Hogan, chief market analyst at Jefferies & Company. 
The Nasdaq composite index ended the day down 57.29 points, or 3.1 percent, at 1,782.97, its lowest level since Oct. 30, 1998. Stocks like Qualcomm, JDS Uniphase and Applied Materials led the decline. 
The 30 stocks that make up the Dow Jones industrial average did little better; only nine issues registered price gains yesterday. The Dow closed at 9,777.93, down 100.85 points, or just over 1 percent. 
And the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 14.46 points, or 1.3 percent, to 1,145.87. AOL Time Warner, Pfizer and Lucent Technologies were big losers. 
"Today is a very disappointing day," said Kenneth M. Sheinberg, head of listed trading at SG Cowen. "People are waiting for the Fed to cut interest rates before its next meeting in May. But I am not so sure we are going to get that unless the stock market really tanks or the economic numbers are really weak." 
Stocks of companies that make semiconductors and semiconductor equipment were hammered yesterday. The Philadelphia Stock Exchange's semiconductor index fell 41.87, to 503.17, a new 52-week low. 
Big decliners included Micron Technology, which fell $5.28, to $36.25; Applied Materials, which lost $3.50, to $40; and Texas Instruments, which closed at $28.35, down $2.63.
Dan Niles, a semiconductor analyst at Lehman Brothers, said investors were reacting to renewed weakness in dynamic random access memory, or D-RAM, chip prices. 
"Pricing for D-RAM's went from $5.60 to $5 over the last three or four days, and it may get worse," he said. "These companies don't really have an inventory problem. They have a demand problem." 
Drug stocks were also hit hard. Merck, a Dow component, fell $1.65, to $74.25. Pfizer lost $2, to $38.95, and Bristol-Myers Squibb closed at $58.25, down $1.15 a share. 
One company with good earnings news was Dynegy. The electricity and natural gas trader said first-quarter earnings rose and that it was lifting its profit outlook for the entire year because of increased demand and higher energy prices. The stock closed at $51.90, up 89 cents.
Donna Karan International gained $1.43, to $10.41. The clothing company accepted a sweetened takeover offer of $243 million from LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vitton. --------------------

Treasury Prices Fall
By Bloomberg News
Treasury bond prices fell yesterday after an index of United States manufacturing rose for a second month, suggesting that the Federal Reserve will not cut interest rates before its May 15 meeting.
The 10-year Treasury note fell 15/32 , to a price of 100 8/32 . The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 4.97 percent from 4.90 percent on Friday.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond fell 18/32 , to 98 12/32 . The bond's yield rose to 5.49 percent from 5.44 percent on Friday.

Results of yesterday's Treasury auctions of three-month and six-month bills and 13-day cash-management bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)3-Mo. Bills6-Mo. BillsPrice98.95797.968High Rate4.12%4.02%Investment Rate4.22%4.16%Low Rate4.07%3.94%Median Rate4.10%3.96%Total applied for$26,133,458$22,716,661Accepted$13,855,958$12,309,261Noncompetitive$1,335,514$1,091,339
Both issues are dated April 5, 2001. The three-month bills mature on July 5, 2001, and the six-month bills mature on Oct. 4, 2001.

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price: 99.819
Investment rate: 5.09%
High rate: 5.00%
Low rate: 4.93%
Median rate: 4.98%
Total applied for: $72,768,225
Accepted: $35,048,825
Noncompetitive: $3,225

The 13-day cash management bills mature April 16, 2001.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) Graph: "3-Month Treasury Bills" shows average discounted rate of 3-month treasury bills in percent at weekly auction from December 2000 to April 2001. (Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); SEMICONDUCTORS (89%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (89%); SEMICONDUCTOR EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); MEMORY TECHNOLOGY (85%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); PROFIT WARNINGS (73%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (72%); FUEL MARKETS (72%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); MEMORY CHIPS (66%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (64%); COMPUTER CHIPS (62%); INTEREST RATES (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX 

COMPANY: JEFFERIES & CO INC (70%); ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (67%); AOL INC (67%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (58%); QUALCOMM INC (56%); JDS UNIPHASE CORP (56%); PFIZER INC (54%); MICRON TECHNOLOGY INC (53%); NASDAQ OMX PHLX INC (53%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (53%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (52%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (51%); DYNEGY INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (57%)

TICKER: ALU (PAR) (67%); ALU (NYSE) (67%); ALU (BIT) (67%); AOL (NYSE) (67%); AXP (NYSE) (58%); QCOM (NASDAQ) (56%); JDU (TSX) (56%); JDSU (NASDAQ) (56%); PFZ (LSE) (54%); PFEB (BRU) (54%); PFE (NYSE) (54%); MU (NASDAQ) (53%); TXN (NASDAQ) (53%); BMY (NYSE) (51%); DYN (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (67%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (67%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (67%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (67%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (67%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (54%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (54%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (54%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (53%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (53%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (50%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (50%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (50%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (50%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (70%) GILPIN, KENNETH N 

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (53%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (53%) CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2001 



108 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs; 
Jordan Gets It

BYLINE:  By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

 BODY:
The U.S. Congress has a chance to do something really good for an American ally and really interesting for global trade with one vote. And it has the chance to do something really reckless for both by shying away from this vote. Hold your breath and hope for the best.
 This story starts with Jordan, the desert kingdom whose exports to the U.S. probably don't equal Michael Jordan's annual salary from endorsements. But Jordan's savvy young King Abdullah (who arrives in Washington today) figured out sooner than most of his Arab colleagues that trade, not aid, was the way to grow his country, drive domestic reform and differentiate Jordan from the oil states. After the peace treaty with Israel, Jordan arranged with the U.S. to set up several small free-trade zones inside the country, and they have already produced 13,000 new jobs -- a big deal for a country with no oil. 
 So last year Jordan worked out a total free-trade treaty with the Clinton team -- becoming only the fourth country in the world to do so (after Canada, Mexico and Israel) and the first in the Arab world. This is a treaty worth supporting. Jordan is a staunch U.S. ally, it is democratizing through real parliamentary elections, it treats its people with decency and it is a critical buffer state between Iraq, Syria and Israel. A free-trade deal with Jordan would not cost jobs here, but would attract investment to Jordan and establish it as a model in the region. (Egypt's president, Hosni Mubarak, is now also asking for a free-trade deal with the U.S., and that too should be supported.) 
Given all this, you would assume the Jordan free-trade treaty would be easily ratified by Congress. I wish. When President Clinton's trade representative, Charlene Barshefsky, negotiated the accord she persuaded the Jordanians to include an innovation that the U.S. labor movement had long sought -- provisions to ensure minimum labor and environmental standards at Jordanian or U.S. factories engaged in their trade. Never before have such provisions been written into a U.S. free-trade agreement, with trade sanctions for non-compliance.
Labor and environmental groups argue that trade accords shouldn't just regulate trade, but also how goods and services are made. Some advocates of this approach are well-meaning. Others are nothing more than shills for U.S. labor unions who really want to block trade with poor, developing countries but don't want to admit it. So instead they say, "Gosh, we'd love to trade with you, but only when you get your labor and environmental rules up to ours."
This is known as politically correct protectionism, and both developing countries and Republicans hate it. Hence the current dilemma: Does the Bush team push a Jordan free-trade deal that is important for U.S. national security but includes pro-labor, Clinton-installed provisions? Or does it let the accord languish?
How about a compromise? Enter Robert Zoellick, Mr. Bush's trade negotiator. Mr. Zoellick knows he could ram the Jordan deal through Congress stripped of its labor and environmental rules, given the Republican majorities. But he doesn't want to, because he's going to need bipartisan support if he wants Congress to back larger trade accords.
So Mr. Zoellick is now exploring a compromise with all sides, which was first suggested by the House Ways and Means chairman, Bill Thomas. The idea is to keep the labor and environment provisions in the Jordan deal, but instead of having trade sanctions imposed if one side doesn't live up to its commitments, there would be financial penalties instead. (Countries would have to donate money to a labor or environmental organization to work on the violation.)
"The approach I'm exploring," says Mr. Zoellick, "would treat trade, labor and environment exactly the same, which is what labor and Democrats have long advocated. But let's do it with monetary penalties for non-compliance -- not trade sanctions, which many Republicans, businesses and developing countries object to as a cover for protectionism. Let's strike a trade deal that encourages people to have core labor standards and environmental improvements, without building in provisions that block trade, which is the very engine of growth that will, over time, lead to better labor and environmental conditions."
This is a good idea. This is an important trade accord, and it could be a good precedent for the future. Congress should act on it now. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (85%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (76%); SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONES (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (74%); TRENDS (74%); JOB CREATION (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); POLITICS (70%); PEACE PROCESS (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (60%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; JORDAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; TREATIES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS; LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (75%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%); HOSNI MUBARAK (50%) FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; CLINTON, BILL 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); JORDAN (93%); IRAQ (92%); EGYPT (92%); SYRIA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MEXICO (79%); CANADA (79%) JORDAN; UNITED STATES; ISRAEL; IRAQ; SYRIA

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2001 



109 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: $25 AND UNDER; 
When the Going Gets Tough, the Tough Get Hungry

BYLINE:  By Eric Asimov 

 BODY:
EVEN with all the jitters over the economy, restaurants that offer elaborate $18 appetizers and luxurious $30 main courses continue to open in Manhattan. 
 But Inside takes another tack. It was opened two months ago by Anne Rosenzweig, who lived through the recession of the late 1980's at Arcadia, and Charleen Badman, her sous-chef at the Lobster Club, and it has the stripped-down appearance and simplified approach of a place ready for leaner economic times. Rococo embellishments and status ingredients have been cast aside, yet this is no glorified diner. 
 With dishes based on no more than three seasonal and simple ingredients, Inside can keep prices gentle, with appetizers topping out at $9 and main courses at $18. Yet Ms. Badman, the chef, does not settle for cliches and standard preparations. Her best appetizer is a handful of shrimp with a light, crisp salt-and-pepper crust, topped with a tangy grapefruit confit ($9). Almost as good is a salad of cubed beets, endive and peanuts ($7), a perfect blend of sweet, bitter and crunchy.
The handsome wood bar in front and the professional greeting bespeak the comfort of a more expensive restaurant, yet the almost bare white walls make the dining room feel airy and streamlined. Wicker chairs are comfortable but informal. The tables are covered in white butcher paper, yet the napkins are linen. The menu, which changes weekly, is confined to a single sheet of yellow paper. 
A salad of portobello mushrooms ($6), sliced paper-thin and dressed in lemon, mint and vinegar, is brisk and inviting, while pea soup ($6) is deliciously sweet, though perhaps overthick. Broccoli rape ($4) is considered a side dish, but it works for me as an appetizer, with a light coating of garlic and olive oil and a topping of polenta croutons. Another side dish, creamed spinach ($4) -- with almost no fat, the menu suggests -- is excellent; steakhouses should take note. 
Less enticing is a warm leek tart ($7), overwhelmed by a covering of dry layered crust and radicchio, though favas add snap.
Main courses are similarly streamlined. Newport steak ($17) is thick and beefy, fine without its superfluous (and dry) pistachio salsa verde. Tender braised lamb with cinnamon and olives ($18) achieves an almost Moroccan balance of savory and sweet, while roasted cod ($16), scented with thyme and olives, is a nod toward Provence.
Trout stuffed with onions and Jerusalem artichokes ($15) is nicely flavored with dill and white wine, but Ms. Badman is sometimes off balance with her seasonings. Rabbit stew ($18) is bland, while ropes of pasta with asparagus, lemon and pine nuts needed a couple of shakes of salt. I liked a hearty calf's liver in a melange of caramelized onions and bacon chunks ($16) and roast chicken with artichokes and oranges ($13), but maple-infused quail with beans and brown bread ($17) was intolerably sweet, while salmon ($15) was just as flavorless as a borscht paired with it.
The wine list is well selected, though I wish more choices were in the $25 range.
Desserts ($6 each) share with the rest of the menu an aversion to the usual suspects, though they are similarly up and down. I loved panna cotta, whether flavored with vanilla and mango or strawberry, and a steamed chocolate pudding went brilliantly with rhubarb, but a tough slab of pastry topped with pecans and caramel offered little pleasure.
Inside has its share of off-putting quirks. Handing out meager slices of bread with tongs seems jarring in an otherwise informal place, and too many preparations are served in huge, unwieldy bowls. Yet with such appealing guiding principles and many well-executed dishes, Inside is on the right track. If the economic future promises harsh medicine, Inside, at least, is a spoonful of honey.

Inside
9 Jones Street, Greenwich Village; (212) 229-9999.

BEST DISHES: Salt-and-pepper shrimp, beet and endive salad, portobello mushroom salad, broccoli rape, creamed spinach, Newport steak, braised lamb, roasted cod, trout with Jerusalem artichokes and dill, calf's liver, roast chicken, panna cotta, chocolate pudding with rhubarb.
PRICE RANGE: Appetizers, $6 to $9; main courses, $13 to $18.
CREDIT CARDS: American Express, MasterCard, Visa.
HOURS: Monday through Saturday, 6 to 11 p.m.; Sunday, noon to 3 p.m., 5 to 9 p.m.
WHEELCHAIR ACCESS: All on one level; restroom entrances are narrow.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANT REVIEWS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MENU PRICES (73%) RESTAURANTS; REVIEWS 

ORGANIZATION: INSIDE (NYC RESTAURANT) 

PERSON: ASIMOV, ERIC 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2001 



110 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1609 words

HEADLINE: Creating Literature, One Comic Book at a Time; 
Chris Ware's Graphic Tales Mine His Own Life and Heart

BYLINE:  By NEIL STRAUSS 

DATELINE: CHICAGO 

 BODY:
It was obvious from the first issue of his Acme Novelty Library comic book that Chris Ware was no ordinary illustrator. Some pages were crammed with as many as 40 frames, while others were airy and bordered by exquisite floral designs. One page, with a circuitous illustrated diagram that simultaneously led the reader through the story of an unanswered telephone and a family history, took a good 10 minutes to get through, but at the end came a denouement so logical and tidy that it left readers reeling.
 In the 13 issues that followed its 1993 debut, many of them now collected in "Jimmy Corrigan: The Smartest Kid on Earth" (Pantheon), Mr. Ware painted an excruciatingly desolate yet wonderfully nuanced portrait of loneliness through Jimmy Corrigan, a friendless, inarticulate and sickly man in his 30's with a smothering mother, a father who abandoned him as a child, and a rich fantasy life. 
 In a publishing world just getting comfortable with long-form comic books as graphic novels, Mr. Ware's comics heralded the arrival of a more rarefied genre: graphic literature. To many fans of alternative comics (which tend to focus on the internal life of everyday characters rather than the superhuman exploits of larger-than-life ones), Mr. Ware is one of the best graphic artists of his generation. Each of his comic books sells about 30,000 copies, which is high for the genre. 
"Chris's work has completely redefined and expanded the inherent potential of comics," said Ivan Burnetti, a fellow cartoonist from Chicago. "He's changed our assumptions about this humble art form more radically than anyone since Robert Crumb."
Thanks in part to Mr. Ware's Acme Novelty Library, alternative comics have been slowly but steadily moving out of their underground niche over the last decade. One alternative comic, the Ghost World series by Daniel Clowes, which concerns the insular world of two female best friends, is being adapted into a feature film. Mr. Ware said he had shooed away several inquiries about making a movie out of his books, which chronicle four generations of lonely, abandoned Corrigans (whose most frequent utterance is an awkward "koff"). 
Mr. Ware, 34, was wearing a blue Izod cardigan recently when he answered the door at the town house on Chicago's West Side where he lives and works. "This interview isn't going to be printed in question-and-answer format, is it?" he asked right away. "Because a lot of my thoughts tend to come out muddled and ungrammatical and, if nothing else, inarticulate." 
There were shades of Jimmy Corrigan in his ovoid head and thinning hair, and like his semi-autobiographical character, he seemed old before his time. The impression was reinforced by the antique Victrola, Edison cylinder machines, piles of vintage "Gasoline Alley" newspaper comic strips, and framed old-time advertisements scattered around his house. 
"I'll read old Popular Mechanics magazines for inspiration," Mr. Ware said. "But I'm not nostalgic for any period that I haven't lived in. Mostly I'm nostalgic for when I was 6 years old. Sometimes I think a lot of disputes between people could be solved if everybody had to wear a lapel pin showing what they looked like as children. That way, you'd kind of feel sorry for them."
He stopped and critiqued himself: "That's pure insanity. I don't know. A byproduct of sitting at a table all day long." The longer Mr. Ware talks, the more he seems to feel that he is putting his foot in his mouth. His sentences often end in phrases like "but then again I could be wrong."
Mr. Ware, who lives with his wife, Marni, and a cat, grew up in Omaha. "I know that my teacher hated me in school just as much as the other kids did," he said. "I was a dweeb." 
Like Jimmy Corrigan's father, Mr. Ware's abandoned the family soon after his son was born. While Mr. Ware was writing the series, in which Corrigan's father reappears after an absence of more than 30 years, his own father also happened to materialize. The real-life father and son were reunited in a scene that Mr. Ware described as more awkward than the scene he had previously created for Jimmy Corrigan.
"I think he was about as embarrassed and uncertain as I was, sort of trying to make up for lost time in an overenthusiastic way," Mr. Ware said of the dinner he shared with his father. Not long after the encounter, his father died (as does Corrigan's in the comic). He said he regretted never having shown his father his work.
Mr. Ware's drawing career began when he moved with his mother from Omaha to Texas and began attending the University of Texas in Austin, where he created a strip for the campus newspaper, The Daily Texan. He describes this late 80's work as "miserably awkward stuff, just wretched." But his colleagues from the paper disagree. 
John Keen, who describes himself as "one of Chris's obscure loser friends" (he's actually an animator for Nickelodeon), recalled: "I could tell that he was something of a genius right away. I kind of looked up to him, even though he was only 18 and I was two years older." 
Mr. Ware might never have hit his stride in illustrating but for an event that took place a couple of years later. He was working on what he describes as a pretentious, conceptual comic when his girlfriend dumped him. 
"It depressed me so much that I scrapped everything I was doing and started drawing these improvisatory stories that I had in my sketchbooks," he said. "And that was the first time I ever felt an emotional kinship with anything I was doing." 
The early issues of Acme Novelty Library include those strips. In these mostly wordless and action-free tales of a potato-shaped character who bears a remarkable resemblance to Mr. Ware, one can see the beginnings of his immense vocabulary of loneliness, economical use of space and dark humor.
In some subsequent black-and-white strips, he copied his illustrations with a photostatic camera and used them as backgrounds for other panels, creating a strange simulation of depth. In others he experimented with what he calls map strips, elaborately constructed diagrams detailing, in the space of a page, complex relationships among events, places and people. Soon some of his comics were crammed with as many as 300 panels on a single page, an attempt, he said, to create a comic that could be read like musical notes on a score.
In one series, "Quimbies the Mouse," he explored the tension between the security of companionship and the freedom of solitude through a character with one body and two heads. "Those I started drawing when my grandmother went in the hospital," Mr. Ware said. "She was basically dying, and I started drawing in my sketchbook this Siamese-twin character with one half either resenting the other half or dying off. I liked having two characters in one and drawing something about relationships and cruelty. In almost any relationship you can't bear to be around the other person, but when you're away from them, you can't bear to be apart." 
Mr. Ware started drawing Jimmy Corrigan in Texas, but when he moved to Chicago in 1993, the desolation he felt in this new, cold city led him to make the strip semi-autobiographical as he developed it through his job as a cartoonist for the alternative weekly New City. 
As the years passed, Mr. Ware began collecting posters, books and memorabilia about the 1893 Columbian Exposition in Chicago, leading to beautifully colored and elaborately detailed pages later in the Acme series in which Jimmy Corrigan's grandfather is abandoned by his own father at the world's fair. A more subtle recurring theme in the comics is the passing seasons, reflected in the changing trees and scenes outside Jimmy's window.
"The first thing I do when I get up is I look out the window," Mr. Ware said. "I've been looking at the same image for six years. It's imprinted in my mind like an afterimage template. And those slight variations are what add to a sense of not only time passing but also a wasted life." 
Kees Kousemaker of Galerie Lambiek in Amsterdam, one of the world's first comic-book-only stores, said, "It is virtually impossible not to start reading Chris Ware's work when setting one's eyes on it." 
Every square inch is filled with art, text, hand lettering and cutout home-assembly paper models of robots, peep shows and more. The back pages are often jammed with sarcastic ads for novelty items, parodying old Sears, Roebuck and Johnson Smith novelty catalogs. Even the microscopic copyright information in the front of each book is riddled with little jokes and humorous antiquated phrasing.
"I don't want to feel like I'm wasting any space," Mr. Ware said. "When I was a kid, I liked books that just seemed so dense you could lose yourself in them for a whole afternoon. They were like their own whole world. There seems to be such a laziness in -- and I hate to use this phrase -- the modern world. Everything is pumped out so quickly so that you can read it while passing by, like billboards or those flashcards before movie shows." 
Musically minded, Mr. Ware recently started publishing an occasional 200-page journal called Ragtime Research, full of articles and vintage ragtime scores, photographs and advertisements. 
"Ragtime has about the same amount of respect as comics," he said. "And in a way they're similar art forms. Ragtime is highly compositional, and the emotion in the music is built in, whereas in jazz a lot of that emotion comes from the way it's performed. To me comics are also a compositional art, in that you're composing pictures on a page, and you're composing emotion into the work. This way, readers can sort of play them when they read them." 

CORRECTION-DATE: April 9, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article on Wednesday about the work of the graphic artist Chris Ware, a creator of alternative comic books, misspelled the surname of a fellow cartoonist from Chicago. He is Ivan Brunetti, not Burnetti. The article also misstated the name of the Chicago alternative weekly that publishes Mr. Ware's work. It is Newcity, not New City.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Chris Ware at home in Chicago, where he creates autobiographical alternative comic books about Jimmy Corrigan and other all-too-human characters. (Steve Kagan for The New York Times); Mr. Ware fills each page with details. "I don't want to feel like I'm wasting any space," he says. (pg. E1); A theme of loneliness and dark humor characterizes Chris Ware's work. (Chris Ware)(pg. E7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); LITERATURE GENRES (90%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (78%); VISUAL ARTS (78%); FAMILY (76%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (74%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); PUBLISHING (73%); FILM (70%); HAIR LOSS (50%) COMIC BOOKS AND STRIPS 

PERSON: STRAUSS, NEIL; WARE, CHRIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2001 



111 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1070 words

HEADLINE: MANAGEMENT; 
M.B.A. Programs That Look a Lot Like Work

BYLINE:  By THOM WEIDLICH 

 BODY:
Every other Thursday after work, rather than go home to her family in Plano, Tex., Dannellia Gladden-Green drives to the Omni hotel in Richardson, seven miles away, and cracks the books for her M.B.A. course the next day.
 Much of the discussion in the classroom, she knows, will focus on the activities of a single company, Texas Instruments, which happens to be her employer. That is because Texas Instruments worked with the University of Texas to create a special M.B.A. curriculum for its up-and-coming managers. 
 Ms. Gladden-Green, 34, a trained engineer with a Ph.D. in electronic materials, says the classes are giving her a keener understanding of basic business principles. She hopes her degree, which she expects to earn in December, will enable her to move from her present position as a marketing manager to a more senior position. 
"I come from a technical background and there were a couple of things I wanted to get from the program, such as strategic thinking and business acumen," she said. "Ultimately, I want to drive the strategic direction of an emerging business."
Texas Instruments is an early player in a fledgling trend: the customized M.B.A. While only a handful of such programs appear to exist (and they were not unheard-of in years past), corporate education experts predict they will become more common. "We're seeing a huge uptick in interest in these programs," said Jeanne Meister, executive director of the New York-based Corporate University Exchange, a research firm.
Aside from its educational value, the customized M.B.A. offers corporations another carrot for luring and retaining talent -- a priority these days as baby boomers retire and corporations face a looming management shortage.
"To become the employer of choice, we have to be very aggressive in offering educational opportunities to our employees," said Jay Wetzel, who retired this month as vice president and general manager of General Motors Technical Centers in Warren, Mich. G.M.'s North America engineering division plans a new joint technical degree program beginning next January that will include a G.M.-customized M.B.A. from Indiana University.
Rather than simply reimbursing their employees' tuition costs for a standard executive M.B.A., companies are finding that collaborating with a business school to create a program tailored to their industry and markets is well worth the extra cost.
No one expects the practice to sweep the country; only major corporations with big work forces can afford it, and even their programs are likely to be limited in size and duration. "I don't think you're going to see hundreds, but 25 or so of these programs will spring up" over the next few years, said Philip Zerrillo, graduate dean of the University of Texas at Austin business school.
Companies typically send managers to weekend classes at a nearby university, as Texas Instruments does. A few, though, sponsor Internet courses. Honeywell International in Morristown, N.J., started a pilot Internet program for 15 students in September 1999 with Capella University, an online school in Minneapolis.
The Intel Corporation in Santa Clara, Calif., is taking a mixed approach. Starting in May, it will fly business professors from Babson College in Wellesley, Mass., once a month to five Intel locations in Western states to teach courses to more than 30 employees. Other course work will be handled over the Internet. The tuition for each employee for the 27-month program is $52,500.
"Babson is going to gear the homework towards the needs of Intel," said Alan Fisher, the company's manager for extended education programs. "Instead of having homework, they'll have real work to do. It's not only an opportunity to learn, but an opportunity to problem-solve for Intel."
Texas Instruments, which is based in Dallas, began thinking about establishing its own M.B.A. program four years ago. The company knew it had great engineers, but also that it was going to need a lot of people with business knowledge to lead it in the future, said James M. Szot, who oversees the effort for his company.
Members of the first class began their studies in January 1999, and 49 graduated last December. The second slate of students numbers about half that.
First-year courses in the basics of accounting and finance are fairly general, but second-year electives chosen by Texas Instruments are more closely tailored to its own activities. That enables students to become de facto consultants to their own company, with a professor as adviser. "Each team is assigned to work with a sponsor in Texas Instruments to examine a real business issue and come up with some recommendations," Mr. Szot said. "Those can be pretty powerful."
Ross Teggatz, 37, a design engineering manager who graduated with the first M.B.A. class, says the courses changed how he does his job. "In the past, I would design a part and if it didn't sell I'd blame the marketing people," he said. "Now I understand that I have to design the part to help it sell."
Another benefit of such exclusive programs is that they allow executives at the sponsoring company to influence the curriculum and even become involved in it. Take Deere & Company, a maker of farm and other machinery in Moline, Ill.
Last fall, Deere collaborated with Arizona State University to begin a customized M.B.A. program that combined the traditional classroom with the Internet. When the students studied economics, in addition to hearing from the professor, they were able to click on a video of Robert W. Lane, the chairman and chief executive, and hear his economic views and his thoughts about Deere's markets.
The benefits of such a program to employees are fairly obvious: they get to work toward a degree without giving up their jobs to advance their careers.
To make sure the programs do not become too insular, some companies open them to employees from noncompeting concerns. From the start, Intel's will include five such people. "We have a concern for our proprietary information but also a concern not to inbreed the culture," Mr. Fisher said.
A more prosaic reason for inviting outsiders is to fill slots. Texas Instruments opened this year's class, its third, to an employee of Cadence Design Systems Inc. in San Jose, Calif. Eventually people from other high-technology companies will be included, Mr. Szot said. "Texas Instruments is not going to have enough candidates to support it."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dannellia Gladden-Green, above, and Dan McKeon, pointing to Ashish Gokhale, left, are all Texas Instruments employees and students in an M.B.A. program that the company helped create with the University of Texas. (Photographs by Mark Graham for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); CURRICULA (77%); TUITION FEES (77%); COMPANY STRATEGY (76%); EMPLOYEE TUITION ASSISTANCE (76%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); LABOR FORCE (76%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (76%); ENGINEERING (75%); TRENDS (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); SEMICONDUCTORS (74%); BABY BOOMERS (68%) EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; BUSINESS SCHOOLS 

COMPANY: TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (83%) TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC; GENERAL MOTORS CORP; INTEL CORP 

TICKER: TXN (NASDAQ) (57%); GM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (57%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (57%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%) SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES; 

PERSON: WEIDLICH, THOM 

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (72%) TEXAS, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2001 



112 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 279 words

HEADLINE: Profit at Best Buy Up 16% in Quarter 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: EDEN PRAIRIE, Minn., April 3 

 BODY:
Best Buy Inc., the nation's largest consumer electronics chain, reported a 16 percent increase in profit for the fourth quarter, beating Wall Street expectations.
 The solid results were generated despite the costs of acquiring Musicland stores and write-offs of investments in e-commerce companies, the company said today. 
 For the three months ended March 3, the retailer, based in Eden Prairie, earned $189.7 million, or 89 cents a share, compared with $163.8 million, or 78 cents a share, a year earlier.
Analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial/First Call had expected earnings of 82 cents a share.
Shares of Best Buy rose $3.20, or 9 percent, to $40 a share, on the New York Stock Exchange, where it was among the top 10 percentage gainers.
Revenue for the quarter was $5.46 billion, up 27 percent from $4.31 billion a year earlier.
Sales at stores open for at least a year, known as same-store sales, rose 1.8 percent for the quarter. Same-store sales are viewed as a good indicator of a retailer's strength. "In view of the challenging economic environment, our ability to report record profits and exceed earnings estimates is particularly gratifying," said Richard M. Schulze, the chairman and chief executive.
Net earnings for fiscal 2001 increased 14 percent, to $395.84 million, or $1.86 a share, compared with $347.1 million, or $1.63 a share, for the period a year earlier.
Both the quarterly and full-year results reflected costs related to Best Buy's acquisition and integration of Musicland stores in the fourth quarter. Sales for the year rose 23 percent, to $15.33 billion from $12.49 billion last year. Same-store sales were up 4.9 percent for the fiscal year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); SAME STORE SALES (90%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); MUSIC STORES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (57%); EXECUTIVES (51%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: BEST BUY CO INC (96%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (71%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: BEST BUY CO 

TICKER: BBY (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (96%); SIC5735 RECORD & PRERECORDED TAPE STORES (96%); SIC5734 COMPUTER & COMPUTER SOFTWARE STORES (96%); SIC5731 RADIO, TV & CONSUMER ELECTRONICS STORES (96%) SIC5731 RADIO; 

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2001 



113 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: BULLETIN BOARD 

BYLINE:  By KATE ZERNIKE, KAREN W. ARENSON and ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS 

 BODY:
Distinguished Professors at SUNY
 The trustees of the State University of New York have named seven scholars as distinguished professors. The professors -- a literary critic, five scientists, and a pianist -- were chosen for their prominence in their fields. Five are professors at the State University at Stony Brook: GILBERT KALISH, a pianist the trustees recognized for his work as a soloist, chamber player, and accompanist; ISRAEL KLEINBERG, who founded Stony Brook's department of oral biology; M. CRISTINA LESKE, who was recognized for her contributions to the study of eye diseases and to breast cancer epidemiology; PETER VAN NIEUWENHUIZEN, noted for his theory of supergravity; and DONALD H. LINDSLEY, recognized for his contributions to the branch of geology dealing with the composition of rocks. WILLIAM V. SPANOS, a professor of English at the State University at Binghamton, was recognized for his expertise on American literature and poetic modernism. DAVID D. MEISEL, a professor in the department of physics and astronomy at the SUNY College at Geneseo, was recognized for his contributions to the study of meteors and comets. 

Economics 101, CUNY-Style
The City University of New York's faculty and staff union held teach-ins and other events last week to highlight the damage they say was done to the university by years of budget cuts and to call attention to their own contract demands. Professors found a variety of ways to work material about the university's finances into their classes. JAY APPLEMAN, a professor at Queensborough Community College, used the data for a lesson on probability, asking questions like how many full-time teachers students would be likely to have if they took five classes. (Two at the community colleges.) ANNE FRIEDMAN, who teaches at Borough of Manhattan Community College, directed the students in her critical-thinking class to look for the premises and the conclusions in the union's arguments. JOAN GREENBAUM, a professor at La Guardia Community College, told the students in her systems-analysis class to summarize the data in graphs objectively -- and not to offer their opinions. Some of her students were surprised as they studied a bar graph showing that more of CUNY's budget was financed by tuition and less by taxpayers than was the case 10 years ago."I knew tuition went up, but I didn't know how much," said MICHAEL BRACONI, a second-year computer science student.

Intern Program Named for Professor
The trustees of the City University of New York have named the university's public affairs internship program after EDWARD T. ROGOWSKY, a former political science professor at Brooklyn College and city editor of CUNY-TV, who died last month. The program places about 300 students each year in positions with the City Council, district attorneys' offices, community planning boards and other public agencies. Mr. Rogowsky also helped create the Model New York State Senate Project to give students experience in the legislative process.

Schools Planned for Creedmoor Site
GOV. GEORGE E. PATAKI announced the sale yesterday of 32 acres on the grounds of Creedmoor Psychiatric Center in Queens Village to the New York City School Construction Authority to build three schools and athletic fields for more than 2,800 students. The construction authority paid $12 million for the land, which will be used for two prekindergarten through eighth-grade schools with nearly 1,700 seats for children in Community School Districts 26 and 29; a High School of Teaching Professions for 1,200 students; and at least two playgrounds. KATE ZERNIKE, KAREN W. ARENSON and ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (91%); LITERATURE (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (90%); LITERARY CRITICISM (89%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (87%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (77%); ASTROPHYSICS (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (77%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (72%); PHYSICS (72%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (72%); EYE DISORDERS & INJURIES (70%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (70%); CITIES (66%); BUDGET CUTS (65%); BREAST CANCER (56%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (50%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES 

PERSON: ZERNIKE, KATE; ARENSON, KAREN W; HARTOCOLLIS, ANEMONA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2001 



114 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: COLLISION WITH CHINA: THE CREW; 
U.S. Officials Meet With 24 Still Detained With Aircraft

BYLINE:  By CRAIG S. SMITH 

DATELINE: HAIKOU, China, Wednesday, April 4 

 BODY:
Two American officials met with the crew members of a downed spy plane here today, the first contact the United States has had with the 21 men and 3 women since they were taken into custody by Chinese officials early Sunday.
 "They are in good health and are being well taken care of," said Brig. Gen. Neal Sealock, the American defense attache in Beijing, after the 40-minute meeting early this morning. The crew members, wearing the same clothes they wore when they landed here on Hainan island after colliding with a Chinese fighter jet, were reported to be in high spirits. 
 "The entire crew has faith in America, and I indicated we have faith in them," General Sealock said. He said that the next step was to "get them home as soon as possible," but that he had not discussed the timing with his Chinese counterparts. 
In Key West, Fla., on Tuesday, Secretary of State Colin L. Powell told reporters that he hoped the meeting was the "beginning of an end to this incident."
"I hope that this meeting will lead to the rapid release of all of the members of the crew back to the United States, so that they can be returned to their organizations and their families, and I also hope it will lead to the rapid return of our airplane," General Powell said.
But China is arguing that the crew breached Chinese sovereignty and may bear legal liability for the collision, in which a Chinese fighter pilot was lost at sea. It says it has the right to detain and interrogate the American crew members.
China said Tuesday that the pilot, Wang Wei, parachuted out of his F-8 jet after the collision on Sunday. He has not been found.
The American officials were expected to try to visit the crew members again later today, when they hoped to arrange for fresh clothing, toiletries and other items for them. 
This morning's meeting, which came as tension over the incident mounted between the United States and China, followed three frustrating days for American officials who were awaiting word of the crew. General Sealock, Ted Gong, an American consul in the southern Chinese city of Guangzhou, and Capt. Bradley Kaplan of the United States Navy had flown to Haikou on Monday and then traveled overland to the south of Hainan island in the hope of seeing the detained men and women. 
But they spent Monday and much of Tuesday at a resort hotel near the airfield at which the plane had landed. Diplomats in Beijing and Washington, meanwhile, tried to negotiate a meeting with the crew.
In midafternoon on Tuesday, General Sealock and Mr. Gong were ordered back to Haikou and left by car for the return trip north. Haikou is the capital of Hainan, a provincial level special economic zone that is best known for its beaches, its coconuts, its clusters of unfinished buildings left over from an ill considered mid-1990's building boom and its droves of prostitutes.
Shortly after the two officials left the south, reporters who had staked out a roadblock to the Lingshui airfield, where the damaged EP-3E Aries II plane is, and near where the crew is believed to have been held since Sunday, said a police car leading two buses with darkened windows had left the airfield.
General Sealock and Mr. Gong were met in Haikou by two more American consular officials from Guangzhou and a lower-level defense attache from Beijing.
Captain Kaplan, the United States' naval attache, remained in the south to underscore the United States' interest in arranging the timely return of the damaged aircraft.
Shortly before 10 p.m., General Sealock appeared in uniform in the Haikou hotel lobby, trailed by the other American diplomats and surrounded by a crush of reporters and People's Armed Police officers in plainclothes. The American officials were driven to the Hainan provincial government compound in downtown Haikou.
There, they met with five Chinese officials for more than an hour, exchanging pleasantries and negotiating the terms of the visit with the crew. One condition was that only two officials could attend the meeting, and three of the diplomats returned to the hotel while General Sealock and Mr. Gong went to meet the crew members around midnight at an undisclosed location in Haikou.
The meeting focused on the well-being of the crew, rather than the details of the collision and emergency landing, presumably because Chinese officials were there.
Reuters quoted an American official as saying that the United States has satellite images that show Chinese authorities examining the plane. It was not clear whether they had removed any of the aircraft's sensitive surveillance equipment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY AIRCRAFT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); NAVIES (89%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (89%); AIRLINES (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (76%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); INTERROGATION OF SUSPECTS (72%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (72%) UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; MILITARY AIRCRAFT; NAVIES 

PERSON: SMITH, CRAIG S; SEALOCK, NEAL (BRIG GEN); GONG, TED; POWELL, COLIN L (SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); KEY WEST, FL, USA (79%); GUANGZHOU, CHINA (58%) SOUTH CHINA (96%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); HAINAN, CHINA (89%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%) CHINA; HAINAN ISLAND (CHINA)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2001 



115 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: Battle Lines Form Again on the Battle Flag 

BYLINE:  By KEVIN SACK 

DATELINE: JACKSON, Miss., April 3 

 BODY:
Now it is Mississippi's turn.
 Last year South Carolina's Legislature voted to remove the Confederate battle flag from atop the State Capitol and fly it elsewhere on the Statehouse grounds. This year, working in secret, Georgia's governor and legislative leaders fashioned a compromise to change that state's flag so that it would no longer be dominated by the St. Andrew's cross. 
 Those moves have placed renewed pressure on Mississippi, the only state whose flag still incorporates the Confederate emblem. And unlike Georgia and South Carolina, Mississippi will settle its dispute not in back-room negotiations but in a very public referendum.
On April 17, voters will choose between the current standard, which features the battle flag in the upper left corner, and a new flag that replaces the emblem with concentric circles of stars on a blue background. 
The latest skirmish in the South's culture war is being fought with phone banks, direct mail and fund-raising calls, and get-out-the-vote efforts could be crucial.
Supporters of the new flag depict the vote as an opportunity for Mississippi to show the world a new face. They say defeat would send a particularly unsettling message in light of the changes in Georgia and South Carolina. To keep emotions calm, they are avoiding heated language about race, instead arguing that changing the flag would help recruit business and stimulate investment.
"It's a great opportunity for our people to make a tremendous statement about who we are and how important the future is to our state," said Gov. Ronnie Musgrove, a first-term Democrat who set the referendum in motion. "I want to remove every obstacle I can when it comes to attracting good jobs to our state, and this is a way to do it."
That is essentially the message of the change-the-flag campaign. A flier being mailed to older Mississippians by the Mississippi Legacy Fund, a political action committee formed by the state's business community, pictures a grandfather bottle-feeding an infant. "It's not right that our kids can't find good jobs close to home because companies won't locate in our state, but it's a fact," the advertisement says. "They have the wrong idea about Mississippi. A state flag that includes the Confederate flag just adds to those false opinions."
Supporters of the current flag maintain that the economic argument is spurious. Georgia and South Carolina enjoyed robust economic growth before the changes they made, said Greg Stewart, a lawyer from Tunica, in the state's northwestern corner, who is among the leading opponents of the new flag.
Mr. Stewart, who dresses in pinstripes and speaks more moderately than some in his camp, said in a debate here on Monday that the state flag had become a scapegoat for deeper racial and economic problems. Black Mississippians, he said, "are on the receiving end of racism every day, and they know what the solutions are and it's not just to snatch down the flag." 
But Mississippi political and business leaders argue that the flag has a distinct impact on economic development -- sometimes spoken, sometimes not. Nissan, which recently agreed to build a plant near Canton, north of Jackson, wanted assurances that Mississippi would try to address the flag issue, said former Gov. William F. Winter, who led the commission that designed the proposed flag. And Frances Lucas-Tauchar, president of Millsaps College here, said at a recent public meeting that she was rushing to fill a dozen faculty positions because she feared it would be hard to attract candidates if the vote brought defeat for the proposal. 
A poll taken for The Clarion-Ledger, the Jackson daily, from Jan. 25 to Feb. 2, before the campaign began in earnest, found 55 percent supporting the current flag and 34 percent favoring the new flag. In a state where blacks typically account for about 30 percent of voter turnout, 65 percent of blacks said they supported the new flag; 73 percent of whites preferred the existing one. 
Like the proposal's supporters, its opponents have formed a political arm, the Mississippi Heritage PAC, led by Earl Faggert, a member of the Sons of Confederate Veterans. Embracing the slogan "Save the Flag, Change Our Hearts," it has raised a small amount of money, which will probably be used for radio advertising, Mr. Faggert said.
The new flag's supporters in the business community have joined forces with the N.A.A.C.P., most of Mississippi's statewide elected officials and a number of church groups. The state's two United States senators, Trent Lott and Thad Cochran, both Republicans, have not announced positions.
Business and professional leaders like James L. Barksdale, former president of Netscape, and Richard F. Scruggs, a Pascagoula lawyer, are raising money for the cause.
George Shelton, a former Musgrove aide who is heading the Legacy Fund, said the campaign would be surgical, aiming its get-out-the-vote efforts at groups most likely to support the proposal: women and the college-educated as well as blacks.
"What we're finding," Mr. Shelton said, "is that this is an issue that's splitting households. So we have to be very careful with our targeting."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Under a proposal nearing referendum, the Mississippi flag, shown at right outside a Jackson office building, would be replaced by the one at left, already being flown by a law firm in the shadow of the State Capitol. (Photographs by Suzi Altman for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REFERENDUMS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (74%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (72%); TRENDS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (67%); FUNDRAISING (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); GOVERNORS (58%) FLAGS, EMBLEMS AND INSIGNIA; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ELECTIONS; REFERENDUMS 

PERSON: SACK, KEVIN; MUSGROVE, RONNIE (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: JACKSON, MS, USA (79%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (95%); GEORGIA, USA (94%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%) MISSISSIPPI

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2001 



116 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 593 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; 
Technology Sell-Off Sends Markets to Near-1998 Levels

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL BRICK 

 BODY:
It seemed as though the whole affair had never begun.
 But for their color, red, the stock prices tripping across tickers yesterday closely resembled those of late 1998, before the surge in telecommunications and computing investment, before the takeoff of technology stocks. 
 After losing 39 percent of its value in 2000, the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index has declined another 32 percent so far this year. It fell 109.97 points, or 6.2 percent yesterday, to close at 1,673.00, because of new warnings about weak earnings and concerns about rising tension between the United States and China. 
David Sowerby, portfolio manager at Loomis, Sayles & Company, said that had he been stranded on a desert island from the time of the Russian banking crisis and the collapse of Long-Term Capital Management in 1998 until yesterday, "I would have seen stocks compounded about 10 percent and said, 'Huh, that's about right.' "
But he might not have guessed at the events in the interim. From its total valuation of $2.107 trillion in October 1998, the Nasdaq gained $4 trillion and then lost more than $3 trillion. It reached a closing high of 5,048.62 on March 10, 2000, from which it is down slightly more than two-thirds. Despite 485 initial public offerings in 1999, the number of companies with issues on the Nasdaq has fallen to 4,575 as of February from 5,161 in October 1998.
But yesterday's damage spread well beyond technology. The broad Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 39.41 points, or 3.4 percent, to 1,106.46, while the Dow Jones industrial average fell 292.22 points, or 3 percent, to 9,485.71.
"We couldn't even get a new month, new quarter going here," said Jon Brorson, director of equities for Northern Trust, the money management unit of Northern Trust Company.
The boom of 1999 and early 2000 seemed almost dreamlike yesterday, when "we're wondering not where the bottom is, but if it will ever come," Mr. Sowerby of Loomis, Sayles said. The sell-off in technology stocks came after dismal financial forecasts from several more technology companies.
Money managers were distressed by the collection of profit warnings issued after the market's close on Monday. Several technology companies said their financial results would be jarringly weaker than Wall Street's expectations.
Ariba, a provider of software platforms for online transactions, said that its sales were far below analysts' estimates and that it would report a loss and lay off 700 workers. Shares of Ariba plunged $2, or 31 percent, to $4.44.
Broadvision and E.piphany also warned of disappointing results, as did other companies with business plans tied to the Internet, including Redback and Inktomi. Broadvision fell $1.53, or 34 percent, to $2.97; E.piphany fell $2.47, or 25.3 percent, to $7.28; Redback fell $1.93, or 16.5 percent, to $9.77, and Inktomi plunged $3.43, or 55.1 percent, to $2.79. The losses were not confined to technology, though, as market strategists said investors seemed to be heeding all bad news in the bear market. Among the Dow stocks, J. P. Morgan Chase dropped $3, to $41.60, while United Technologies lost $2.57, to $70.83. --------------------

Treasury Prices Rise
By Bloomberg News
Treasury bond prices rose yesterday as stocks fell.
The 10-year Treasury note rose 12/32, to a price of 100 20/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 4.92 percent from 4.97 percent.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond rose 9/32, to 98 21/32. The bond's yield fell to 5.47 percent from 5.49 percent on Monday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) Chart: "Treasury Yield Curve"Yields of selected Treasury securities. Short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale. Graph tracks yields from one month ago and yesterday.(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); BONDS (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); PROFIT WARNINGS (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); LAYOFFS (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (72%); BANK FAILURES (69%) STOCKS AND BONDS; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE 

COMPANY: NORTHERN TRUST CORP (84%); LOOMIS SAYLES & CO LP (57%)

TICKER: NTRS (NASDAQ) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%)

PERSON: BRICK, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2001 



117 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1372 words

HEADLINE: Turning Niagara Falls Around; 
A New Agency Aims to Revive the American Side

BYLINE:  By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD 

DATELINE: NIAGARA FALLS, N.Y. 

 BODY:
Tourism is booming around the self-proclaimed Honeymoon Capital of the World, with new hotels and attractions shooting up as fast as a trip down the falls in a barrel and 20,000 visitors a day flocking to the bustling Casino Niagara.
 Unfortunately, all that is happening in Niagara Falls, Ontario. On this side of the border, the main attractions are ghosts of projects built and abandoned -- a water park, a museum shaped like a turtle, an eerily vacant shopping mall, and a downtown rich in plywood-covered storefronts and fading signs. In 2000, even the Niagara Falls Historical Society took its place in history when it became the first such organization to be dissolved by order of a judge after the state attorney general found mismanagement, fraud and scores of missing artifacts. 
 Now, after decades of frustration, New York has decided to form a state agency that will try to stoke a Times Square-style revival of this town, to finally capitalize on the eight million annual visitors who come to see the falls but stay here on average only a few hours before crossing the river to Canada. 
There is, once again, talk of new hotels, restaurants, stores, maybe a casino and museums and nature trails. But as the effort gets under way, plans are competing with a history of failure so pervasive that the city has more in common with a serially jilted bride than the world capital of anything.
"I think even if Christ would come here and say, 'I have come to save you,' people would say, 'Yeah, I heard that before,' " said Paul Gromosiak, a local historian who thinks planners have overlooked the value of museums and nature trails to lure tourists away from Canada. "Cynicism is rampant here."
Of course, there are some optimists, like Irene J. Elia, a former nun and the city's mayor, a job that requires a sense of humor -- she recently donned Groucho glasses for a Chamber of Commerce speech -- and resiliency. 
Mayor Elia, a Republican who took office in 2000, has established enough of a connection to Gov. George E. Pataki that he flew in shortly after her victory and agreed to support an ambitious redevelopment effort.
USA Niagara Development Corporation, an arm of the Empire State Development Corporation, the state economic development agency that was instrumental in the rehabilitation of Times Square in the 1990's, has the power to seize property from developers it sees as foot-dragging. The agency, which began operating in March and will be headed by Michael Wilton, a former aide to Mr. Pataki, has begun gathering public opinion on the best course of action.
Niagara Falls itself is seen as the "anchor tenant," the equivalent of the Disney Store in Times Square that helped draw other developers to an otherwise depressed area. Many people believe an Indian casino will be a part of the plan, to lure people from the packed Casino Niagara just over the Rainbow Bridge in Niagara Falls, Ontario.
"Probably," Mayor Elia said of this prospect, with a trace of regret. "I don't gamble. But if it is part of an entertainment plan here and a part of strong development, I will support it. As long as it is family oriented, with day care and other things."
Charles A. Gargano, the chairman of Empire State Development and a close Pataki adviser, said, "I don't envision large-scale gambling, but certainly gambling would be an attraction and would be helpful if it came about." Mr. Gargano said the new agency would also probably seek new hotels, restaurants and stores.
In addition, after the governor called the observation tower overlooking the falls a monstrosity, the State Office of Parks, Recreation and Historic Preservation announced plans for a $23 million improvement project that will include lopping off the top 60 feet of the 280-foot tower. To redress what almost everyone sees as a colossal error in planning, it will reconfigure the four-lane riverfront Robert Moses Parkway, which speeds people through the city and over the bridge into Canada. The parkway will become a two-lane road, with the other lanes devoted to hiking and biking. 
Longtime residents still reminisce about decades past, when Falls Street boomed with pedestrians and theaters and small shops.
But since the glory days, there has been poor planning, corruption and the loss of heavy industry coupled with the loss of nearly half the city's population since 1960 (from 1990 to 2000, the population declined 11.4 percent, to 55,593). An ill-conceived urban renewal plan in the 1960's and early 1970's leveled dozens of blocks without offering much to take their place. And there has been plain old bad luck, like international infamy as the home of Love Canal, the neighborhood evacuated in the late 1970's because of toxic pollution.
Mayor Elia, who keeps a silver cross next to an American flag on the wall behind her desk, relishes the "feisty" label newspapers here have given her. Last year, she took aim at Niagara Falls Redevelopment, a private developer that in April 1997 was given an eight-year contract to spur development in the city, ordering it to "put a shovel in the ground" by July 2000 or face city action. 
The company met the ultimatum and is now planning to revive the Turtle, a decaying concrete hulk shaped like a huge turtle that sits near the bridge to Canada and served as an Indian cultural center before financial problems forced it to close in 1996.
Roger Trevino, vice president of Niagara Falls Redevelopment, denied the mayor's assertions that the company had waffled in bringing in development. He said it had proved difficult to entice developers because the city lacked an overall plan, something he expects USA Niagara to help provide.
All the misfortune causes people to look at the Canadian side, home of the horseshoe-shaped falls on the Ontario side of the Niagara River, with a mix of scorn and envy.
This is a topsy-turvy frontier world where the Canadians are outdoing the Americans in theme-park-style tourism, energized not only by entrepreneurial spirit but also by government assistance, including Ontario's clearing the way for a casino in 1996 that has led to $1 billion in new development. (Some say it also does not hurt that the best view of the falls is from the Canadian side.)
A tower with red neon letters spelling "casino" looms over this city from the Canadian side, a Vegas lite with abundant haunted house attractions, souvenir shops, restaurants, hotels and casino. 
"There's just more to do here, plain and simple," said Walter Thacks, a paralegal visiting from Tennessee, who was playing a Jackpot Limbo quarter slot. "I went over to see the American falls, but you know, I could not see what else to do over there."
But all is not bleak on the American side. People are cautiously awaiting AquaFalls, a futuristic aquarium under construction next to the glass-cubed office building that housed Occidental Chemical. The first new attraction in a decade, it has encountered financial problems and delays but, the developer says, is back on track. (The Canadians have plans for new aquariums, too, to accompany the existing Marineland.)
Mayor Elia said a hot-air balloon ride to take people over the falls would open soon. And a steel mill is scheduled to be built this year.
Some businesses hang on as the plywood goes up around them. The Book Corner, a 74-year-old bookstore on Main Street, sits like a beacon of light in the pall of the blight.
"We have watched the city make promises, and I have just become disillusioned by it," said Jeffrey Morrow, who has watched businesses close all around him. He vows to stay. 
And people still do marry here, with 1,100 licenses issued in 2000, the bulk of them to out-of-towners; marriages dropped through the 90's but are starting to rebound.
Sandra Solomon and Brad Hansen drove overnight from their home near Cleveland to elope. They got a room at the Red Coach Inn bed and breakfast near the falls and planned to take their vows in the wedding chapel at the Holiday Inn.
Ms. Solomon said she found the Canadian side too bustling; they did not mind the lack of attractions on the American side. They came here for more romantic pursuits.
Why Niagara Falls?
Mr. Hansen did not hesitate. "It's the honeymoon capital of the world, isn't it?"

GRAPHIC: Photos: The tourist economy of Niagara Falls is vibrant, but only in the distance, on the Canadian side of the Niagara River.; On the American side, Niagara Falls is rich in plywood-covered storefronts and fading signs. Mayor Irene J. Elia, left, is working to stimulate development. (Photographs by Ruth Fremson/The New York Times) Maps of New York and Canada highlighting areas surrounding Niagara Falls: Eight million people visit the falls each year, but most go to Canada. (pg. B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); HISTORY (89%); MAYORS (88%); TOURISM (79%); WATER PARKS (79%); CASINOS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); RETAILERS (75%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (74%); RESTAURANTS (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); JUDGES (69%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (69%); RELIGION (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (54%) AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

COMPANY: EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (62%)

PERSON: ARCHIBOLD, RANDAL C 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); ONTARIO, CANADA (73%) CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%) NIAGARA FALLS (NY); CANADA; NEW YORK STATE; NIAGARA FALLS (ONT)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2001 



118 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 885 words

HEADLINE: Rebates Help Vehicle Sales Remain Strong 

BYLINE:  By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: DETROIT, April 3 

 BODY:
Automakers continued to sell a surprising number of cars, sport utility vehicles, minivans and pickup trucks in March, despite a slowing economy and falling stock markets. But these sales did not come cheap, as manufacturers extended rebates and other discounts to models that seldom carried them last year.
 The auto industry sold family vehicles at a seasonally adjusted annual pace of 17.1 million vehicles, according to sales figures released by all the major automakers today. That was well above the rate of 16 million vehicles that the industry regards as strong, although the number of vehicles sold was still 4 percent lower than the extraordinary number a year earlier. 
 But vehicles that until recently were the biggest moneymakers -- particularly full-size sport utility vehicles and large luxury cars in the $40,000 to $80,000 range -- are requiring costly rebates and lease deals to move off dealers' lots.
A new statistical analysis by J. D. Power & Associates, a consulting firm, has found that rebates, to which the auto industry is already addicted for car sales, have become surprisingly common for midsize and full-size sport utility vehicles. Among 19 vehicle segments, rebates have spread fastest of all for full-size sport utility vehicles.
Fully 37 percent of all full-size sport utility vehicles are now being sold with rebates, compared with virtually none three years ago and only 12 percent a year ago. The average price of these vehicles, after rebates, has dropped 0.8 percent, the consulting firm found. 
Three other segments of the auto market had smaller price declines -- midsize sport utility vehicles, very small cars and upper-midsize cars -- while the average price for all models rose 2.8 percent, roughly in line with inflation.
Ford Motor, for example, said today that it had increased its spending on rebates and other marketing expenses to 12 percent of revenue from 11 percent. That is a big increase in an industry where profits are considered healthy if they reach 5 percent of revenue. Yet Ford's sales fell 13.1 percent from March of last year, which was the best month in the company's history.
Sales at General Motors dropped only 4.6 percent while those for the Chrysler unit of DaimlerChrysler fell 10 percent. Most foreign automakers reported sales gains.
But keeping sales at their current level is not coming cheap, and some consumers are now finding real bargains at automakers' expense.
Steve Bentham, a 44-year-old fast-food restaurant owner in Wortham, Tex., went to his local Jeep dealer a week ago with the intention of buying his family's leased 1998 Jeep Cherokee Sport.
But when he reached the dealership, he learned that a new Cherokee, with a CD player and other amenities the old Cherokee did not have, could be leased for three years for $275 a month. A loan to buy the used sport utility vehicle when its lease expired would cost $435 a month.
Why the discrepancy? DaimlerChrysler, which makes Jeeps, is offering up to $5,000 in lease discounts on Jeep Grand Cherokees and even more on Jeep Cherokees for people who have previously purchased them, stepping in as banks become more leery of sport utility vehicle leases. Mr. Bentham's dealer was even willing to take another $2,000 off the sticker price for the Cherokee he wanted.
"I got a $24,000 vehicle for $16,500," Mr. Bentham said. "It was like, 'wow.' " 
George Pipas, a market analyst at Ford, said that the company was trying to limit its reliance on incentives partly by cutting production, to prevent inventories from growing too large. Ford announced last Friday that it was indefinitely canceling one of the three shifts at its full-size sport utility vehicle factory in Wayne, Mich., transferring some of the 850 workers to other factories and furloughing others.
The elimination of the shift was a surprising sign of how the auto market has changed. Just two years ago, the factory was the world's most profitable factory in any industry, operating round the clock, seven days a week. It cranked out Ford Expeditions and Lincoln Navigators, which carried a profit of $12,000 to $15,000 apiece, partly because they used the inexpensive underbodies of Ford F-150 pickups.
Even when a blizzard paralyzed southeastern Michigan in January 1999, and state police asked anyone without a medical emergency to stay off the roads, the truck plant kept running without the loss of a single hour of production, as truckloads of auto parts were diverted from other factories.
The softening of sales for the Expeditions and Navigators partly reflects the introduction of a competitor, the similar Toyota Sequoia, and also reflects the vehicles' age. Ford plans to introduce updated versions of both vehicles next year. 
Paul Ballew, G. M.'s general director of global market and industry analysis, said that auto sales had not weakened as quickly in response to declining consumer confidence this year as in previous economic slowdowns. He noted that incomes had risen faster than vehicle prices in the decade since the last recession and that longer-term leases and loans were now available, reducing monthly payments.
Auto sales appeared to have been strongest last month in the south-central section of the United States because strong oil and gas prices are sustaining the economy there, Mr. Ballew said.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Deep Discounts"Carmakers kept sales robust in March by offering significantly more incentives than last year. Percentage of vehicles sold with rebates or discount coupons, in March of each year. Midsize S.U.V.'s'00: 25.5%'01: 33.6 Minivans'00: 22.5'01: 37.1 Full-size S.U.V.'s'00: 11.7'01: 37.1 Mini S.U.V.'s'00: 25.8'01: 18.5 Large luxury cars'00: 44.0'01: 52.6 All vehicles'00: 27.9'01: 36.3(Source: J.D. Power & Associates)(pg. C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (98%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (93%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (92%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (91%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); NEW CAR DEALERS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); PICKUP TRUCKS (78%); LUXURY GOODS (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); CD & DVD DRIVES (71%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (68%); RESTAURANTS (60%) AUTOMOBILES; SALES; REBATES; UTILITY VEHICLES AND OTHER LIGHT TRUCKS 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (74%); J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (56%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: POWER, J D, & ASSOCIATES; FORD MOTOR CO; GENERAL MOTORS CORP; DAIMLERCHRYSLER AG 

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (74%); F (NYSE) (74%); GM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (74%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (74%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (74%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2001 



119 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1014 words

HEADLINE: COLLISION WITH CHINA: THE LAW; 
Old Tactics May Pull the Rug From the U.S. Claim to Plane

BYLINE:  By CHRISTOPHER DREW 

 BODY:
If the collision between the Navy surveillance plane and a Chinese fighter jet last Sunday occurred where the Pentagon has indicated, the Bush administration has strong legal standing in demanding that both the plane and its crew be released promptly, several legal experts said yesterday.
 But in the more practical realm of negotiating that release, they said, the American position could be damaged, to a degree, by some of the Pentagon's own cold war escapades. 
 For instance, the Bush administration has insisted that the Chinese have no right to hold or even to inspect the Navy's EP-3E surveillance aircraft, which made an emergency landing on China's Hainan Island after the collision with a Chinese jet that was tailing it. All 24 Americans survived and are being held in China; the Chinese plane crashed and its pilot is missing. 
Yet the Pentagon itself has often rejected appeals from other countries similar to the ones it is making. For instance, in 1976, when a defecting Soviet pilot flew a MIG-25 fighter jet to Japan, American intelligence officials, despite Soviet protests, spent nine weeks taking it apart and inspecting it before sending the plane back to Moscow -- in packing crates.
And even now, defense analysts said, the Pentagon maintains programs to obtain military equipment from potentially hostile nations, including China, through practically any means possible.
Indeed, some experts said China's delay in releasing the Navy crew and its plane stems in part from the animosity that Chinese officials feel at being the object of such American intelligence operations. And they said that this could well complicate the negotiations between the two nations, shifting the focus from legal issues to the murkier set of ethics that govern the cloak-and-dagger operations in the spy world.
Still, some analysts noted a distinction between aircraft brought in by defectors and the situation of the American plane in China.
"Since there was an accident over international waters, it was an aircraft in distress, and ought to be left alone," said R. James Woolsey, a former director of the Central Intelligence Agency. "When we exploited aircraft for intelligence it's been when defectors brought them in, which is under a very different condition."
But China's president, Jiang Zemin, objected yesterday to the plane's spying mission. He also said that the United States should bear the full responsibility for the collision and that it should stop all such flights along the Chinese coast.
Pentagon officials said the collision occurred about 80 miles southeast of Hainan island after the Chinese jet darted too close to the lumbering American craft. They also said the Navy plane, which was intercepting electronic signals, was flying over international waters and had every right to be there.
Chinese officials, however, have said the American plane veered into the path of the Chinese jet.
In interviews, several experts on international and maritime law said a number of serious legal issues were at stake, as well as customs that have prevailed for centuries among seafaring nations.
The first question, they said, was whether the collision occurred was outside the 12-mile band of Chinese territorial waters.
Pentagon officials have said that clearly was the case, and Chinese officials agree that the collision took place nearly 80 miles off Hainan. But in addition to Hainan, China also claims ownership of tiny islands farther out in the South China Sea. And some Chinese officials have said China's domain stretches 188 miles from China's coast, in which it has primary fishing and mining rights.
But several legal experts disputed those claims. John Temple Swing, the president emeritus of the private Foreign Policy Association, said that under a Law of the Sea treaty negotiated in the early 1980's, China's rights to the larger, 188-mile zone were purely economic and would not prevent other countries from sending ships or planes there.
China and most other countries have signed the treaty. The United States has never ratified the treaty, but adheres to many of its principles.
Lori F. Damrosch, an international law professor at Columbia, said the small islands cited by China as part of its boundary amounted to just "a bunch of little specks of rocks."
American officials, in turn, have maintained that the Navy plane represents a sovereign extension of United States authority and that, as such, China has no right to inspect it without permission. 
Several lawyers said it had long been axiomatic that while anyone could salvage wrecked and unclaimed commercial vessels, damaged warships have always belonged to the nation that built them.
Jonathan I. Charney, a law professor at Vanderbilt University, said he knew of no similar provision for military planes. But Ruth G. Wedgwood, an international law professor at Yale, said she believed that warplanes should logically enjoy the same protection -- and be able to seek safety at any airport during a peacetime emergency.
As a result, she said, in delaying the release of the Navy plane and crew, "the Chinese are playing with fire, both legally and politically." 
Still, some intelligence officials acknowledged that legal lines have often been blurred in situations when the United States, or other countries, had opportunities to seize military hardware.
In most cases, the Pentagon's chances to study adversaries' planes and ships have been offered by defectors -- or come through stealth.
The most audacious effort occurred in the mid-1970's, when the C.I.A. tried, unsuccessfully, to raise a sunken Soviet submarine from the bottom of the Pacific.
William E. Colby, who was then the C.I.A. director, once acknowledged that given the traditional sovreignty accorded sunken warships, C.I.A. officials knew that what they were doing constituted theft.
Norman Polmar, an independent naval analyst, noted that during and after the Korean War, the United States offered payments of gold and persuaded at least two North Korean and Chinese pilots to defect with MIG fighter planes, which the United States kept.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SURVEILLANCE & RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (90%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); NAVIES (90%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (90%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ESPIONAGE (89%); STANDING TO SUE (78%); ETHICS (78%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (78%); AIRLINES (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (77%); COLD WAR (76%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); INTERVIEWS (65%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ESPIONAGE; NAVIES 

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (93%) DEFENSE DEPARTMENT 

PERSON: DREW, CHRISTOPHER 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (55%) SOUTH CHINA (93%); HAINAN, CHINA (78%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (55%) CHINA; HAINAN ISLAND (CHINA)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2001 



120 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 78 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS; 
RAYTHEON AIRCRAFT TO ELIMINATE 450 WHITE-COLLAR JOBS

BYLINE:  AP 

 BODY:
 Citing a softening economy, Raytheon Aircraft told its employees yesterday that it was eliminating about 450 administrative and managerial jobs, about 10 percent of the company's managerial work force in Kansas. "I would characterize this move as pre-emptory in a soft economy, in the context of a weak stock market," said a Raytheon spokesman, Jim Gregory. The company employs 10,200 people in Kansas, most at its Wichita site where most of the cuts will be made. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR FORCE (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); AIRLINES (86%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS 

COMPANY: RAYTHEON CO (90%)

ORGANIZATION: RAYTHEON CO 

TICKER: RTN (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (90%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (90%) SIC3812 SEARCH & NAVIGATION EQUIPMENT; 

GEOGRAPHIC: WICHITA, KS, USA (90%) KANSAS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2001 



121 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1388 words

HEADLINE: COLLISION IN CHINA: THE OVERVIEW; 
CHINA FAULTS U.S. IN INCIDENT; SUGGESTS RELEASE OF CREW HINGES ON OFFICIAL APOLOGY

BYLINE:  By ERIK ECKHOLM 

DATELINE: BEIJING, April 3 

 BODY:
The Chinese government blamed the United States today for Sunday's midair collision of a spy plane and a trailing Chinese fighter jet and suggested that the release of the 24 American crew members hinged on Washington's willingness to apologize.
 The slow-moving American plane, filled with secret eavesdropping equipment, collided on Sunday with one of two Chinese fighters that shadowed it 65 miles off Chinese territorial waters. With a wing and an engine damaged, the plane made an emergency landing at a military base on the southern Chinese island of Hainan, where the crew was taken into custody. 
 The pilot of the Chinese jet, identified today as Wang Wei, reportedly parachuted out before his jet crashed, but Chinese rescuers have been unable to find him and he is presumed dead. 
Tonight, a government spokesman, asked when the 24 Americans might be freed, stopped just short of setting an absolute condition for their release. The spokesman, Zhu Bangzao of the Foreign Ministry, said "the answer to your question" lay in China's insistence on an apology and an explanation. 
"It was the U.S. side that caused this incident, and China is the victim," Mr. Zhu said at an unusual late-night news conference, held just before an American officer in Hainan met with the crew for the first time since the accident. "The United States should take full responsibility, make an apology to the Chinese government and people, and give us an explanation of its actions." 
President Jiang Zemin was quoted in Chinese state media as saying today that China has "full evidence" that the American plane caused the collision by violating standard flight rules. He also called on the United States to end its frequent reconnaissance flights along China's coast.
 As Mr. Jiang left the capital on Wednesday for a long-planned 12-day tour of Latin American nations, Reuters reported that the New China News Agency quoted him as saying, "The United States should apologize to the Chinese for this incident and bear all responsibilities for the consequence of the incident." His departure suggested that he did not expect a major crisis to develop from the collision. 
Speaking on American television this morning, the United States ambassador, Adm. Joseph W. Prueher, said his government would "have a problem" with apologizing. American officials have suggested that a miscue by the speedier jet, traveling too close for safety, must have caused the collision, and they maintain that China has no legal right to board the aircraft or hold the crew. 
Once American officials have debriefed the crew, more details should emerge of what happened on Sunday, when a seemingly routine cat-and-mouse game between an American spy plane and Chinese jets ended with one death, a potentially sensational gain for Chinese intelligence and a tense diplomatic confrontation that may stoke jingoistic sentiments on both sides. 
Today, American and Chinese officials seem to be describing two different occurrences, with clashing versions of who caused the collision, of the legality of the procedures followed by the spy plane before its emergency landing and of China's right, at this point, to scour the plane and hold its crew for interrogation. 
American and Chinese officials are worried about damage to relations from this episode, the latest in a series of strains including the 1999 bombing of the Chinese Embassy in Belgrade during NATO's war against Yugoslavia, American allegations of Chinese nuclear spying, President Bush's plans for a national missile defense, weapons sales to Taiwan and American condemnation of human rights violations here. 
"This will definitely increase suspicions on both sides," said Yan Xuetong, director of the Institute of International Relations at Qinghua University in Beijing. "But I think the damage may be limited because both governments don't want this event to undermine the overall relationship." 
Beijing's leaders, who regard American cooperation as essential to China's economic development, have repeatedly said the two nations should have good relations despite differences over Taiwan, human rights and other issues. Mr. Yan said that view still prevailed in Beijing, and tried to explain why Chinese officials must nonetheless take a stern approach to the spy plane incident.
Given the circumstances, he said, Americans have made unrealistic and even hypocritical demands of China -- particularly by insisting that China should hand back the aircraft without searching it. 
"This was a spy plane, and the United States used it to gther intelligence from China," he said. "How can the United States say that 'we have a right to spy on you, but you don't have a right to enter a plane that landed on your territory without official agreement?' " 
"China simply cannot agree that the United States has a legitimate right to spy on us, and no other country could agree to that either," Mr. Yan said. He asked what would happen if a Chinese spy plane landed on American soil after causing the death of an American pilot. 
Chinese officials and citizens also charge that Americans, in their zeal to free the unharmed crew members, have shown little concern for the lost Chinese pilot. The United States says that it offered to aid the search effort but that China declined.
In comments today by President Jiang and by the Foreign Ministry, China described a sequence of events, and relevant international standards, that differed fundamentally from American assertions. 
Tonight, the Foreign Ministry spokesman gave a more detailed account of the Chinese version of events.
Just after 9 a.m. Sunday, he said, as the American EP-3E reconnaissance craft passed 65 miles southeast of China's 12-mile territorial water line with two Chinese F-8 fighters trailing in a "normal" manner, the American plane "made a sudden big movement" to the side, and its left wing bumped into the jet. 
Mr. Zhu did not say the crash was intentional, but he asserted that with its sudden turn, the plane had violated international rules as well as a military agreement between the United States and China concerning safety in aerial encounters.
All aircraft have the right to fly over the 200-mile "exclusive economic zone" that coastal countries maintain under international law, Mr. Zhu noted. But he asserted that the American plane, by spying in that region, had abused the "freedom of overflight" and had "threatened China's security." 
Mr. Zhu also said the aircraft, once damaged, had entered Chinese territory and landed without permission, "a violation of China's sovereignty." He said the air base in Hainan had received no notification of the imminent emergency landing, as required under international rules. "The U.S. plane had the time and the technology to notify, but it didn't," he said. 
A spokesman for the United States Pacific Command in Hawaii, Cmdr. Rex Totty, disputed that, repeating in an interview today that the crippled plane issued the standard "Mayday" emergency alert as it hurried to the nearest landing strip. Commander Totty said that by international practice, on hearing such an appeal, "an air field is obligated to open to that aircraft no matter what country it is from." But he acknowledged that until American officials talked with the crew, "we can't know exactly what happened."
The most delicate issue concerns China's right to enter the aircraft and hold the crew.
Chinese officials and experts scoff at the American concept that a military aircraft that makes an emergency landing has "sovereign immunity" and may not be boarded without permission. "Do we know of any country in history that let a foreign spy vehicle land on its territory without investigating?" asked Mr. Yan of Qinghua University.
Mr. Zhu, the spokesman, said tonight, "This was not a civilian plane but a military plane that entered without permission, violating international and Chinese law."
"There is no question of 'immunity,' " he added. "As the victim country, China is fully entitled to conduct investigations into the case." 
He refused to say whether the plane had already been boarded and inspected, as American officials assume, but asserted China's legal right to do so. 
He said China had the right to detain and question the crew as part of its investigation. "This is the right of any sovereign country," he said. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: PRESIDENT BUSH (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times); PRESIDENT JIANG (New China News Agency via Reuters); (New China News Agency via Associated Press)(pg. A1); Zhu Bangzao, of the Chinese Foreign Ministry, stopped just short of making a U.S. apology an absolute condition for releasing the crew. (Associated Press); Brig. Gen. Neal Sealock, the American Embassy's military attache, making a statement to the news media in Haikou on Hainan island early today after he met with the 24 crew members of the Navy spy plane. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. A10) Map of Hainan shows the location of Haikou: Two American officials met with members of the crew in Haikou. (pg. A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SURVEILLANCE & RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (90%); ESPIONAGE (90%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (90%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (89%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (89%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); AIRLINES (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (78%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (72%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (72%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (72%); ISLANDS & REEFS (70%); NAVIES (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (65%) ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; NAVIES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; MILITARY AIRCRAFT; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ESPIONAGE; RESCUES 

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%) ECKHOLM, ERIK; WANG WEI; JIANG ZEMIN (PRES); PRUEHER, JOSEPH W (AMB) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (58%) SOUTH CHINA (97%); HAINAN, CHINA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); LATIN AMERICA (73%) CHINA; HAINAN ISLAND (CHINA)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2001 



122 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 537 words

PERSON: Emily MacFarquhar 

HEADLINE: Emily MacFarquhar, 62, Writer On Asia for The Economist 

BYLINE:  By DOUGLAS MARTIN 

 BODY:
Emily MacFarquhar, who applied a scholar's meticulousness to many years of reporting on China and South Asia, notably in more than 20 years with The Economist, died on March 18 in her home in Cambridge, Mass. She was 62.
 The cause was a brain tumor, said her son, Rory MacFarquhar. 
 Mrs. MacFarquhar, who traveled widely in Asia and whose reports and observations had a keen audience among scholars and foreign policy experts, also worked for several years for British television and for U.S. News & World Report, covering subjects like Mao's Cultural Revolution, the Bangladesh war of independence and women's rights.
Although her articles for The Economist carried no byline, her work was recognized and praised by experts in her field. She wrote at length about Chinese dissidents, often befriending them when they visited the West, said Merle Goldman, a professor of Chinese history at Boston University.
By examining South Asia, Mrs. MacFarquhar helped focus the West on an often ignored region, said Amartya Sen, master of Trinity College at Cambridge University and a Nobel Prize-winning economist.
Jonathan Mirsky, former East Asian editor of The Times of London, credited Mrs. MacFarquhar with unusually good training before she began reporting in China, remarkable diligence and excellent contacts. "She was a significant China journalist of her time," he said.
An early published work was a pamphlet in 1968, "China: Mao's Last Leap." It was was one of the first detailed examinations of the Cultural Revolution. Mrs. MacFarquhar did not publish books, but worked on a book about former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto of Pakistan. The writer could not conduct interviews for the book because of deteriorating eyesight.
Emily Jane Cohen was born on June 23, 1938, in the Bronx. She worked on school newspapers at the Bronx High School of Science and Wellesley College.
After college, the writer Irving Kristol, a distant relative, helped her land a job at The China Quarterly, a new journal. For six months, she was secretary to the editor, Roderick MacFarquhar. She then earned a master's in East Asian studies from Harvard, studying with John K. Fairbank, the historian and China expert.
After a year in Taiwan studying Chinese, she returned to the United States by way of India, where she ran into her former supervisor, who was covering Nehru's funeral. They were married six months later and settled in London, where The Economist hired her in 1965. Her routine was to make long interview trips to Asia several times a year, using reports from The Economist's extensive freelance network at other times.
In her last years in London, she also worked on a program on commercial Channel 4, covering politics from Northern Ireland, Hong Kong and British regional issues. 
When Mr. MacFarquhar accepted an offer to be chairman of the Harvard government department, Mrs. MacFarquhar wrote for The Economist from Cambridge until joining U.S. News in 1986 as foreign editor. She later becoming a contributing editor.
In 1994, she helped organize a report on women's difficulties in the struggle for equality, "The War Against Women."
Surviving are her husband and son, both of Cambridge, and her daughter, Larissa, of Brooklyn.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Emily MacFarquhar (The Economist) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); WRITERS (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); NOBEL PRIZES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); HISTORY (75%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (71%); PUBLISHING (71%); WOMEN (70%); BOOK PUBLISHING (70%); AWARDS & PRIZES (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); PRIME MINISTERS (64%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (64%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (57%); FOREIGN POLICY (56%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (56%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (55%) DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: U S NEWS & WORLD REPORT INC (83%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON UNIVERSITY (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (83%)

BENAZIR BHUTTO (50%) MACFARQUHAR, EMILY; MARTIN, DOUGLAS 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) ASIA (97%); CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTHERN ASIA (91%); HONG KONG (79%); TAIWAN (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); BANGLADESH (79%); INDIA (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%)

CATEGORY: News and News Media 

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2001 



123 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 597 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Citigroup Joins Other Firms In Laying Off Employees
Citigroup started notifying hundreds of workers that their jobs were being eliminated, becoming the latest Wall Street firm to lay off employees amid the prolonged slump in the stock market.
 The layoffs will continue until several hundred people in the corporate and investment banking operations of Citigroup's Salomon Smith Barney unit have been dismissed, people inside the firm said. Page C11. 

Scrutiny Urged of Herbal Drink
The Council of Better Business Bureaus plans to announce today that it is asking the Food and Drug Administration to investigate Hornell Brewing's marketing claims concerning its herbal Rx Memory Mind Elixir. C8.

Tax Cut Passes First Senate Test
The Senate blocked a Democratic proposal to reduce the president's tax cut by $158 billion and use the money for Medicare. A1.

President Bush's budget will propose deep cuts in health programs for people without health insurance, officials said. A1.

An Accidental Career Path
Heidi Schneider, executive vice president at Neuberger Berman, an investment management company in Manhattan, said she planned to go into broadcasting after college, but those jobs were scarce, so she took a job with New England Mutual Life. The company had the largest television studio outside a TV station, she said, and she thought she would move into that area. "I found I liked the investment part of the business, though, and I began to appreciate my father's influence," she said. "He had shared his experience in investing in the stock market with me." The Boss. C9.

Sharing of Network Costs Sought
Short of cash after spending billions to win wireless licenses, Europe's mobile phone companies are asking the companies that sell them equipment to share the cost of building the networks. World Business, Section W.

PSINet May File Chapter 11
PSINet, a provider of Internet-based communications services, said that it would most likely seek bankruptcy protection as it faces a shortage of cash. C4.

Racketeering Claim Is Dismissed
A federal judge has thrown out racketeering claims in a lawsuit that accuses New York Life Insurance of charging tens of millions of dollars in excess fees to retirement plans it maintains for its workers and sales agents. But the judge ruled that a trial could proceed on a claim that New York Life violated its duty of loyalty to its workers and agents by charging the retirement plans up to 25 times the market rate for managing such funds. C10.

Factory Orders Decrease 0.4%
New orders at manufacturers dropped 0.4 percent in February to their lowest level in 16 months as demand softened for industrial equipment like computers, construction machinery and communications gear, government figures showed. The decline in February orders came after a decrease of 4.3 percent in January, larger than previously estimated, the Commerce Department said. C8.

Hearings Begin on Online Music
Napster asked Congress to force music publishers to offer their catalogs online as hundreds of its users and some well-known musicians sat in on the hearings. C4.

An M.B.A. That's a Lot Like Work
Texas Instruments is an early player in a fledgling trend: the customized M.B.A. The company worked with the University of Texas to create a special curriculum for its up-and-coming managers. Management. C9.

Court Revives Claim in S.& L. Case
A federal appeals court revived a claim by Golden State Bancorp for hundreds of millions of dollars in a suit accusing the federal government of breaking promises made during the savings and loan crisis of the 1980's. C11.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 9,485.71 down 292.22Nasdaq composite -- 1,673.00 down 109.9710-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.92% down 0.05The euro -- $0.8965 up 0.0155The dollar -- 125.54 yen down 1.12 Graph shows Factory Orders share prices since September

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); LITIGATION (85%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); DISMISSALS (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (77%); BUDGETS (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); INSURANCE (77%); NEW ORDERS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (75%); MEDICARE (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); TAX LAW (74%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); BETTER BUSINESS BUREAUS (70%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (69%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (69%); SALES FORCE (68%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (68%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (68%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (68%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (68%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (68%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (67%); LIFE INSURANCE (67%); JUDGES (66%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (66%); WIRELESS REGULATION (63%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (63%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (50%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (57%); NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE CO (56%); NEW ENGLAND MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE CO (55%); NEUBERGER BERMAN INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF BETTER BUSINESS BUREAUS (57%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (57%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (56%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%) SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS & DEALERS; 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (55%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (68%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2001 



124 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1631 words

HEADLINE: Newspaper Economics; 
Cuts Raise Concern About the Quality Of Journalism

BYLINE:  By FELICITY BARRINGER 

 BODY:
Last week, Gary B. Pruitt, the 43-year-old chief executive of the McClatchy Company, found himself seated at a lunch table with two newspaper industry elders, Frank A. Bennack Jr., chief executive of the Hearst Corporation, and Allen H. Neuharth, now retired, who reinvented the Gannett chain and started USA Today in the 1980's.
 Mr. Pruitt broke the ice with a simple question. "You are the two guys to ask," he said. "Which is the way to go? Public? Or private?" 
 Their responses fitted their roles like a custom-made suit. Mr. Bennack, whose Hearst newspapers are the symbolic core of his corporation, praised the freedom of not having to please Wall Street. "I did say that it remained my view that there were clear benefits in being private so long as you have the discipline to compare yourself with public-company performance," he said. 
Mr. Neuharth, who supercharged the acquisition and cost-cutting crusade that has made Gannett an investor favorite, recalled that he told Mr. Pruitt: "Without our being a public company, the resources would not have been there to expand. To grow. And to do innovative things."
Public or private? The question of how best to structure a media company to balance good journalism and good profits has an extra-sharp edge these days as advertising revenue drops and the cost of newsprint rises. But there are no simple answers.
Last month, Jay T. Harris, the publisher of The San Jose Mercury News, resigned rather than endorse the newsroom layoffs that he believed were inevitable, given the profit margins that his bosses at Knight Ridder had promised Wall Street.
The layoffs have not materialized, but this startling move personalized the lingering civil war between those who believe the industry's goal of high profit margins is killing good journalism and those who believe that strong financial performance will save good journalism.
Wall Street is taking note of this argument. A recent report by Bear, Stearns glumly noted that newspaper companies "do not have a lot of scope in trimming staffing, especially with the public backlash by some journalists concerned about cost control measures."
Not that public companies have a monopoly on cost cuts. Across the industry, in large and small markets, newspapers are cutting space, contemplating buyouts and reducing travel expenses whether or not they have public stockholders. 
The reasons are clear. Revenues are down; costs are up. Not long ago, newspaper advertising revenue gains were running at double-digit rates. But in the first two months of this year, advertising revenue at the Tribune Company newspapers was down 1 percent from the first two months of 2000; it was down 2 percent at Gannett; off 5.4 percent at The New York Times Company; and off 0.7 percent at Knight Ridder. As the advertising decline accelerates, newsprint prices are set to rise 8 percent this month, to $660 a ton.
With the industry caught in this squeeze, some editors at Knight Ridder are reminded twice a month or so if they are within their budgets. Editors at private companies face similar pressure from their owners. But right now, journalists who work in privately held companies like Hearst and Advance Publications are saying that it is better for their readers if Wall Street is out of the companies' hair.
"To me, it's a huge, incalculable advantage to belong to a company that is privately owned," said Sandra Mims Rowe, editor of The Oregonian in Portland, owned by Advance Publications. "We just don't do the sharp cutbacks a day and a half after revenue falls."
Her newspaper, with a daily circulation of 348,000, is having cuts, but its newsroom still has a budget for about 435 journalists. By comparison, The Star Tribune of Minneapolis, the biggest newspaper owned by McClatchy, a publicly held company, employs only about 380 journalists even though it has a slightly greater circulation of 374,000. 
But that is not the whole story. The Star Tribune's newsroom has added five or so journalists since it was bought from the privately held Cowles Media four years ago, and the space devoted to news and features is 15 percent greater now than in 1997, its last year in private hands.
"Mine is a public company that is to a certain extent saying we are going to go our own road," Tim McGuire, The Star Tribune's editor, said. "I'm extremely comfortable in my situation, yet I am with a public company. There are many who are with public companies that are not as comfortable. And I'm hearing a lot of things from private companies. This is a tough time."
Some chief executives at privately held companies, like Dean Singleton of the MediaNews Group, have been excoriated by journalists for cutting newsroom staffs and salaries to leverage the purchase of more newspapers. 
Still, in the last decade, Mr. Singleton has increased the newsroom staff and space devoted to news at his flagship newspaper, The Denver Post. The Post, with a circulation of 420,000 -- up from 243,000 a decade ago -- now has 240 journalists, compared with 170 when it was bought in 1988 from Times Mirror, a public company since acquired by the Tribune Company.
Journalism-minded editors and profit-minded owners do have one thing in common. Both need money. Editors get theirs from their business executives. Owners in private companies get theirs from banks, from their own fortunes or from a limited pool of private investors.
The managers of public companies say they not only have access to investment capital on the open market, but because of their higher visibility they also find it easier to borrow and can use stock to make deals and reward talented executives.
But that advantage does not necessarily apply to the smaller chains.
Gannett, with a market capitalization of $15.8 billion, and the Tribune Company, with $12.3 billion, are the industry giants. McClatchy, Belo and Pulitzer, by contrast, are only valued by investors at $1 billion to $2 billion. Having a market capitalization under $2 billion means not even being considered a midcap stock -- and losing a swath of institutional investors who avoid smaller companies. 
Size alone does not determine a public company's destiny -- particularly when, as with these companies and the larger New York Times and Washington Post Companies, family control is assured through a two-tiered stock system. But investment bankers and analysts say that smaller companies risk being overlooked or discounted by Wall Street if they fail to grow fast enough.
Companies that are overlooked may have to consider selling. Douglas H. McCorkindale, chief executive of Gannett, which last year bought Central Newspapers -- publisher of The Arizona Republic and The Indianapolis Star -- and 19 newspapers that had been part of Thomson, says consolidation will further thin the ranks of newspaper companies.
"When a smaller public company does not get recognition by Wall Street, it can be very frustrating for the owners," Mr. McCorkindale said. "That tends to lead to discussions that lead to mergers with larger companies and more liquidity for their stock. I suspect some of that is going to happen in the next 5 to 10 years."
But if smaller companies want to remain independent, their executives have reason to wonder if they should borrow enough to buy back all their stock and reinvent themselves as private companies.
Robert W. Decherd, chief executive of Belo, rejects that idea. "If it's not a good fit by personality or there are certain competitive circumstances that make it unproductive to be publicly held, the answer is to sell the company, not go private," he said. "As soon as you go private, you are back where you started. Not to mention you have a lot of debt."
Mr. Pruitt of McClatchy is less sure how to weigh the public-private balance. On one hand, he said, public ownership enforces financial discipline and makes it easier for owners to sell stock. "Many owners are wealthy on paper but don't have quite as much liquid wealth," he said. "The public marketplace has a ready place to sell."
Ticking off the names of family-owned newspapers that sold out after financial disputes among heirs, he said: "One of the reasons McClatchy went public was to remain independent. It was not the sole reason, but it was a reason."
The effect of that decision, he said, was to bring Wall Street into the company's life, sometimes for better, sometimes not.
Executives at private companies, Mr. Pruitt said, "don't have to deal with the broad array of public shareholders and all that that entails: annual reports and analysts' meetings and a fiduciary duty to a broad number of shareholders."
He added: "That obligation brings with it a great deal of time, expense and effort. And increasingly in recent years, it brings demands on meeting short-term profit expectations."
Profits are not optional for private companies, which often have taken on debt to finance growth. But Mr. Singleton of MediaNews said meeting his interest and principal payments was "a lower bar" than the hurdle of profit-margin growth that faces executives of companies traded on stock exchanges.
When companies go public, he said, "they go on a road show around the country and say, 'If you will give your money to buy my stock, I will give you double-digit earnings growth for the rest of your life.' "
He added: "They take the money. Then they've got to keep their end of the bargain."
But Mr. Decherd of Belo said that such bargains need not harm newsrooms and that neither public nor private companies had a monopoly on good -- or mediocre -- journalism.
"Each of these companies has a personality," he said. "Each has demonstrated over time that it has a commitment of various kinds and intensity to journalism and community. I believe those personalities will play out during this period and beyond."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gary B. Pruitt, chief of McClatchy, said one reason that it went public was to remain independent. He was at The Sacramento Bee yesterday. (Steve Yeater for The New York Times)(pg. C2) Chart: " Tighter Belts Revive an Old Debate"Advertising revenue declines and the increasing cost of newsprint are squeezing newspaper profits and sharpening the debate over how answerable to shareholders newspapers should be. ADVERTISING REVENUE GROWTHAverage advertising revenue growth, year over year, for seven representative public newspaper companies of varying sizes. Graph tracks revenue from May 2000-February 2001 LARGEST PUBLICLY HELD NEWSPAPERS USA TodayOWNER: GannettAVERAGE WEEKDAY CIRCULATION (SEPT. 2000): 1,777,000 Wall Street JournalOWNER: Dow Jones*AVERAGE WEEKDAY CIRCULATION (SEPT. 2000): 1,763,000 New York TimesOWNER: New York Times Co.*AVERAGE WEEKDAY CIRCULATION (SEPT. 2000): 1,097,000 Los Angeles TimesOWNER: Tribune Co.AVERAGE WEEKDAY CIRCULATION (SEPT. 2000): 1,033,000 Washington PostOWNER: Washington Post Co.*AVERAGE WEEKDAY CIRCULATION (SEPT. 2000): 762,000 LARGEST PRIVATELY HELD NEWSPAPERS Daily News (N.Y.)OWNER: Daily News L.P.AVERAGE WEEKDAY CIRCULATION (SEPT. 2000): 704,000 Houston ChronicleOWNER: HearstAVERAGE WEEKDAY CIRCULATION (SEPT. 2000): 547,000 San Francisco ChronicleOWNER: HearstAVERAGE WEEKDAY CIRCULATION (SEPT. 2000): 457,000 Denver PostOWNER: MediaNewsAVERAGE WEEKDAY CIRCULATION (SEPT. 2000): 420,000 Star-Ledger (Newark)OWNER: Advance PublicationsAVERAGE WEEKDAY CIRCULATION (SEPT. 2000): 408,000 *Control rests with a single family.(Sources: Bear, Sterns; Audit Bureau of Circulations) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); NEWS REPORTING (89%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (89%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (88%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (86%); NEWSPRINT (86%); DISMISSALS (78%); WRITERS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); RESIGNATIONS (77%); PRINT ADVERTISING (75%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (72%); PULP & PAPER MARKETS (70%); SHAREHOLDERS (67%); STOCK INDEXES (64%); PAPER & PACKAGING (64%); PRICE INCREASES (60%) NEWSPAPERS; ADVERTISING; FINANCES; INDUSTRY PROFILES; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; NEWSPRINT; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: HEARST CORP (93%); MCCLATCHY CO (92%); GANNETT CO INC (85%); NEW YORK TIMES CO (84%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: AUDIT BUREAU OF CIRCULATIONS (59%) SAN JOSE MERCURY NEWS; KNIGHT RIDDER 

TICKER: MNI (NYSE) (92%); GCI (NYSE) (85%); NYT (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (93%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (93%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (93%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (93%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

PERSON: GARY B PRUITT (90%) BARRINGER, FELICITY; HARRIS, JAY T 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2001 



125 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 220 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING -- ADDENDA; 
2 New Predictions Of Slower Ad Spending

BYLINE:  By Jane L. Levere 

 BODY:
There are two additional indications of the faltering media economy.
 Zenith Media in London, owned by the Cordiant Communications Group and the Publicis Groupe, is revising downward a forecast of American advertising spending in 2001 that the agency made in December. 
Zenith is halving the predicted growth rate for this year to an increase of 2.4 percent -- or flat compared with last year, if inflation is factored in. 
 The forecast, however, remains mildly bullish for later this year and beyond. Zenith is predicting an improved outlook for the final months of 2001 and is modestly raising ad spending estimates for 2002 and 2003.
Also, Myers Reports in New York, which publishes media and research newsletters and reports, released results of a survey of executives at ad agencies and client companies showing confidence as of March fell 24 percent from December.
Only 20.2 percent of respondents at client companies said they planned to increase ad spending this year, compared with 47.6 percent who said that in December. And 35.6 percent said they planned to decrease ad spending, compared with only 12.8 percent who said that in December.
One counterpoint was an increase in the number of respondents who said they would spend as much on advertising in 2001 as they did in 2000, to 44.2 percent from 39.6 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (94%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%) ADVERTISING; FINANCES 

COMPANY: PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (93%); CORDIANT COMMUNICATIONS GROUP PLC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: ZENITH MEDIA SERVICES; MYERS INDUSTRIES 

TICKER: PUB (PAR) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (93%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (93%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (93%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (93%) SIC7319 OTHER ADVERTISING; 

PERSON: LEVERE, JANE L 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (73%) NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2001 



126 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 709 words

HEADLINE: Reckonings; 
The Class Warrior

BYLINE:  By PAUL KRUGMAN 

 BODY:
When George W. Bush first became governor of Texas, he tried to cut the state tax on business profits while increasing the sales tax -- that is, he tried to cut taxes on wealthy shareholders while raising taxes that bear most heavily on ordinary families. This top-down class warfare was too much even for Texas, and Mr. Bush learned that it's better to take a less direct approach: use unrealistically optimistic budget projections to justify tax cuts for the rich, then when reality strikes use the pressure of a tight budget to squeeze programs for the poor and middle class.
 Until last week, the word was that Mr. Bush's tax cut had to be passed immediately to give the economy a short-term boost. Then Democrats came up with a much cheaper proposal that puts more money into consumers' hands this year. Now the word is that tax cutting is about long-term incentives, not short-run economic management. 
 But the push to pass the tax cut quickly, with minimal discussion, is still on. After all, who knows what wavering moderates might learn if they have time to check the details?
Not a week goes by without the discovery that some feature of the plan will cost far more than originally admitted. Last week's bombshell was a report from the bipartisan Joint Committee on Taxation that repealing the estate tax would offer wealthy Americans an array of new strategies that would allow them to legally avoid paying hundreds of billions in income taxes. That original "trillion-dollar tax cut" is now at $2.7 trillion and rising.
Republican leaders dealt with this blow, sort of, by postponing the phase-out of the estate tax. This does nothing to make the tax cut more affordable in the long run. But they hope that they can keep people focused on 10-year budget forecasts, and that nobody will ask what happens in year 11. Meanwhile, this news has another implication: Mr. Bush's tax plan is, believe it or not, even more tilted toward the rich than previously thought.
For all those chants of "no fuzzy math," Mr. Bush's people have never actually refuted independent estimates that about 40 percent of his tax cut goes to the richest 1 percent of families. In fact, a table released by the Treasury Department last month, although it was designed to convey the impression that the tax cut favored the middle class, actually contained enough information to show that if Treasury officials had calculated the share of the benefits going to the top 1 percent (they didn't), and if they had included the effects of estate tax repeal (they didn't), they would have come up with about the same number.
But now it seems that this is an underestimate. The Joint Tax Committee tells us that estate tax repeal will make it easier for the rich to avoid income taxes. So we can now surmise that more than half of the benefits of the tax cut will go to the wealthiest 1 percent. Or to put it in raw numbers: We're talking about a tax cut that would be worth nothing to the poorest quarter of families, which contain one-third of the nation's children; that would give an average of $616 per year to families with incomes between $30,000 and $40,000 (I calculated that number directly from the Treasury table. So much for that $1,600 "typical" tax cut); but would probably give more than $60,000 to families in the top 1 percent, whose average income is more than $1 million. 
Meanwhile the big squeeze has already begun. Mr. Bush hopes to rush through the tax cut before anyone has a good look at his spending plans, but some details are starting to emerge: the Department of Health and Human Services intends, among other things, to slash spending on rural health, disease prevention and aid to senior citizens. And we can be sure that's just the beginning. 
Will Mr. Bush eventually accept a revised tax plan that is less tilted toward the wealthy? I doubt it. Everything we have seen so far is consistent with the theory that those tax cuts for the rich are the whole point of the plan, that the middle-class cuts, such as they are, are no more than a loss leader designed to attract unwary customers. 
And about those who thought Mr. Bush meant something kinder and gentler by "compassionate conservatism," all I can say is, let them eat cake. And drink arsenic. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); TAX LAW (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ESTATE TAX (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); SALES TAX (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); BUDGET FORECASTS (89%); ESTATE PLANNING (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); CORPORATE TAX (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); FAMILY (77%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (77%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (76%) TAXATION; INHERITANCE AND ESTATE TAXES 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); PAUL KRUGMAN (53%) KRUGMAN, PAUL; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2001 



127 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: The Flip Side of Fed Worship 

BYLINE:  By Steven Rattner; Steven Rattner is managing principal of Quadrangle Group, an investment firm.

 BODY:
Now comes the second-guessing of Alan Greenspan. Once held in awe as almost godlike, he suddenly can do no right. But just as the deification was overdone, so, too, is the current criticism.
 Mr. Greenspan has administered our most powerful economic tool -- control over the money supply -- admirably. History will judge him particularly well for his nimble changes of direction in response to economic indicators, all made without sacrificing his conviction that inflation is our most pernicious economic demon. 
 Mr. Greenspan recognized that American business was becoming more efficient, and he allowed faster economic growth than at least some of his more cranky predecessors would have. And his willingness to defy miserly central banker traditions and make large amounts of credit available after the 1987 stock market crash and again after the 1998 Asian economic crisis may well have averted far more significant economic disruptions.
In the years while Mr. Greenspan has been chairman of the Fedral Reserve, we have had our longest period of steady growth, creation of a huge number of jobs, low inflation and, yes, goodly appreciation in stock values. Even the Nasdaq stock index, despite its big fall over the ast year, is still more than triple what it was 10 years ago. Mr. Greenspan is hardly responsible for all of this, of course, but why the carping at him?
It's true that Mr. Greenspan nudged interest rates up prematurely in 1994, and in 1998 he might have shoved them down a bit too much. Most recently, he has offered uncharacteristically illogical justifications for tax cuts proposed by President Bush. But monetary policy, relying as it does on economic predictions, is not a perfect science. And the job has gotten even tougher with the advent of round-the-world trading desks that push markets violently at the slightest provocation, ever more arcane financial instruments, and microscopic tracking of the Fed's every move against arbitrary and often ill-defined "expectations" -- all chronicled breathlessly by 24-hour business television broadcast to millions of day traders.
Now we face a particular economic challenge: the aftermath of a speculative binge. The stampede into foolish ventures can hardly be blamed on Mr. Greenspan, who warned so famously about "irrational exuberance." The $4 trillion that has been lost in the stock markets was built on assumptions of earnings multiplying to the sky and on the fairy dust of dot-com and telecom start-ups; it had no substance. Priceline was never worth as much as most of the airlines combined. Even great companies like Cisco couldn't possibly justify their lofty valuations. And the Dow Jones index wasn't going to 36,000.
Should Mr. Greenspan have moved more aggressively to prick this speculative bubble, as some now suggest? That lament is particularly curious considering that when we were celebrating the new economy and the purported abolition of inflation and recession, every upward nudge that Mr. Greenspan gave to interest rates was met by a chorus of groans.
In the current circumstance, business needs time to absorb the massive industrial capacity created by the cheap money of equity and venture capital investors, as well as low-cost debt. Consumers need time to sleep off the hangover of stock market mania. Americans have been spending more than they could afford, incurring record amounts of debt. And then there is the threat of fallout from a record trade deficit.
The Nasdaq isn't going back to 5,000, at least not for a while. Consumers will have to adjust, and that may be still more painful than we can now see. Even at 1,670, the Nasdaq may well be overvalued, and the rest of the stock market may not be far behind. The average price-to-earnings ratio of stocks in the Standard & Poor's 500 -- perhaps the most important stock market measure -- is now 23, compared with its long-term average of 15.
Our situation should serve as a humbling reminder to those who wish Mr. Greenspan to do something -- anything -- to make the hurt go away. We cannot expect miracles from the Fed, but only the slow salve of interest rates gliding prudently down. Instead of blaming Mr. Greenspan, we should reflect on the willing suspension of disbelief that allowed us to ignore everything we have been taught about sound investing. We brought this period of drying out upon ourselves.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Robert Grossman) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); MONETARY POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); NEW ECONOMY (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); MONEY SUPPLY (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (74%); STOCK INDEXES (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (64%); INTEREST RATES (64%); TAX LAW (64%); AIRLINES (60%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (91%); STEVEN RATTNER (52%) RATTNER, STEVEN; GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2001 



128 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: Asian Markets Seem Calm in China Crisis 

BYLINE:  By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: HONG KONG, April 3 

 BODY:
As diplomats and political leaders in Beijing and Washington traded testy statements today, investors here traded shares, in seeming disregard of the mushrooming dispute over a collision between American and Chinese aircraft over the South China Sea last weekend.
 That ho-hum reaction pervaded stock markets across Asia, and stood in sharp contrast to the United States, where markets have been buffeted by fears of the increasing tension between Beijing and Washington. 
 Analysts here said investors were confident that neither government would allow the incident to escalate into a more dangerous dispute. They also expressed belief that the crisis would not affect China's economic relations with the United States nor derail its quest to enter the World Trade Organization. 
"The market is expecting that the patrol plane issue will be resolved quickly," said Richard Margolis, first vice president for strategy and planning at Merrill Lynch in Hong Kong. "It's assuming, quite correctly, that the whole W.T.O. issue is being handled on a different track."
Mr. Margolis said Asian investors were resilient in absorbing political shocks. Stock markets in Hong Kong, Tokyo and Taipei have performed as well or better than United States markets since the beginning of the year, even as the region weathers a period of political turbulence.
"There is a sense that we're the jam in the sandwich between the U.S. and China," Mr. Margolis said. "But in this part of the world, political events very seldom create a new secular trend in the market."
In Hong Kong, a small crowd massed in front of the United States Consulate to demand an apology from Washington for the collision, in which a Chinese fighter jet was brought down. The consulate closed for an hour.
Yet the protests barely registered at the stock exchange nearby, where shares fell 1.12 percent, weighed down by an 11 percent drop in Pacific Century CyberWorks.
In Taiwan, where political sensitivities are more acute, the benchmark index dropped 2.87 percent. But again, the decline was caused mainly by domestic concerns. Several big corporations on Taiwan are about to report earnings, which are likely to be hurt by the American slowdown in technology spending.
The market in Taipei, Taiwan's main city, had risen in recent weeks as the Bush administration neared a decision on whether to sell advanced weapons to Taiwan. Many there think that President Bush is leaning toward selling some weapons, while deferring the sale of the sophisticated Aegis radar system, which China has said it does not want Taiwan to have. "From a stock market point of view," said Peter Kurz, chairman of Insight Pacific, a research advisory group in Taipei, "this would be the best outcome because it would supply Taiwan with necessary weapons but at the same time defuse tensions between China and the United States."
Mr. Kurz thought it was too soon to say whether the dispute over the surveillance plane would affect the arms sales. But he noted that heightened suspicion between the two powers would inevitably spill over into Taiwan-China relations, which would drag down the stock market.
American business leaders in Hong Kong and Beijing expressed some optimism that the dispute would have little effect on Chinese-American trade ties. Some expressed the view that Beijing had to some degree eschewed the strident tone it used after NATO planes bombed the Chinese Embassy in Belgrade in 1999.
China has ample economic incentive not to rupture American ties. It shipped $100 billion of exports to the United States last year, a 22 percent increase over 1999. 
"There are two things that will stay China's hand," said Simon L. Ogus, an independent economic analyst in Hong Kong. "They want to win the Olympics in 2008, and they want to get into the W.T.O. this year."
Despite the general equanimity in Asian markets, there were a few pockets of concern. Shares of companies based in mainland China and listed in Hong Kong fell more sharply than the broader Hang Seng index. China Unicom, the No. 2 Chinese telephone company, reported earnings for 2000 that were far higher than analysts' expectations. But its stock still declined 1.2 percent.
And some fund managers said they were watching nervously as United States officials struggled to retrieve the surveillance plane and its crew from Hainan, the Chinese island 400 miles southwest of Hong Kong.
"I think people are underestimating the potential it has to turn into a protracted issue," said Henry Lee, a director at Hendale Asset Management here. "It certainly doesn't set the right tone for the new administration and China." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (86%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); TRENDS (76%); BONDS (73%); AIRLINES (72%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); COMPANY EARNINGS (71%); RADAR SYSTEMS (65%) STOCKS AND BONDS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); PCCW LTD (53%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%)

TICKER: 0008 (HKSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (53%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (75%) LANDLER, MARK 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (94%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (93%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); SOUTH CHINA SEA (93%); PACIFIC OCEAN (88%) UNITED STATES (99%); TAIWAN (96%); CHINA (94%); HONG KONG (94%); ASIA (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%) FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; HONG KONG; TAIWAN; CHINA; SOUTH CHINA SEA

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2001 



129 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1519 words

HEADLINE: Lenders Try to Fend Off Laws on Subprime Loans 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr. and PATRICK McGEEHAN 

 BODY:
Advocates in more than a dozen states and cities are pressing to pass laws limiting so-called predatory lending, rousing lenders into a coordinated counterattack that has managed to fend off or weaken some of the farthest-reaching proposals.
 The latest battle is in Philadelphia, where Citigroup, Household International and other lenders are seeking to derail a measure scheduled for a vote tomorrow in the City Council. 
 The spate of proposals is in response to what advocates of the measures say is the spread of unscrupulous lending practices and rising foreclosures of inner-city homes. While similar legislation has floundered in Congress, advocates have scored victories in several places, including North Carolina, Chicago and Washington. 
Lenders say the proposals will curtail access to credit for many families and create an awkward patchwork of regulations across the country. Among the industry's advisers are Connie Mack, the former Republican senator from Florida, and Thomas F. McLarty, former chief of staff for President Bill Clinton. 
North Carolina took the lead in banning predatory lending with a law passed in 1999, and the issue captured the interest of politicians elsewhere, particularly in big cities that have seen high numbers of foreclosures on high-fee, high-interest loans known in the industry as subprime.
Restrictions are being considered in California, Illinois and Tennessee, among other states, and in cities like Oakland, Calif., and Cleveland and Dayton in Ohio. Regulators have recently toughened rules in New York and Massachusetts; last month, legislation was defeated in Georgia and Nebraska.
Predatory lending refers to the practice of deceptively packing high fees, costly credit insurance and other charges into loans to unsophisticated borrowers. These fees, often exacerbated by so-called flipping -- refinancings that bring no benefit to borrowers but generate fees for lenders -- leave many homeowners with large monthly bills and balloon payments they cannot pay, except by ceding their home to the lender.
Last month, the Federal Trade Commission filed a lawsuit against the Associates First Capital Corporation, one of the country's biggest consumer lenders, charging it with routinely lying to and deceiving customers. Officials described it as the agency's most significant action against predatory lending. Citigroup, which purchased Associates last year, did not dispute the charges but said the lawsuit was counterproductive in light of its negotiations with the commission.
Advocates say more measures are needed to protect homeowners. "This has exploded," said Irv Ackelsberg, a managing attorney at Community Legal Services in Philadelphia. "You would have to be a rather distracted person not to notice that equity is being stolen all over the city. It's a public crisis."
Mr. Ackelsberg points to people like Veronica Harding, 72, a retired clothing factory worker who bought a row house in North Philadelphia for $7,500 in 1980 but now owes about $35,000 after refinancing five times in four years. The last loan generated $5,600 in fees, or 16 percent of the loan value. 
"It went so that one company would call and say, 'We'll pay off the other one,' and then another lender would call," Ms. Harding said.
With a monthly mortgage of $308 and Social Security income of $629, Ms. Harding said it was a struggle to pay bills. But she worries most about the $29,000 balloon payment she must make in 10 years -- a provision that Ms. Harding said she did not understand until a friend reviewed the loan after the closing.
"Lenders showed me how this would help me, but it wound up hurting me," she said. "I didn't know what this stuff was all about."
The lending industry prefers federal legislation -- though in a much milder form than some state proposals -- instead of piecemeal efforts. Last month, the American Bankers Association warned that "the proliferation of different state and local lending rules threatens to balkanize the lending market" and increase costs that are sure to be passed to consumers.
Household International, the consumer finance company, recently said it would draft "model legislation" and had appointed Mr. Mack and Mr. McLarty to a board of advisers.
"We are going to concentrate on the federal and state level," Mr. McLarty said.
Officials from large lenders including Countrywide Credit, one of the nation's largest mortgage lenders, and Bank of America gathered in Dallas three months ago for what was billed as a "predatory lending summit." Participants mapped strategies, such as creating a "swat team" of lobbyists to crisscross the country to defeat these measures. 
The attendance list underscored the fact that big investment and retail banks are active in subprime lending, either by financing lenders or owning their own units, like EquiCredit, a unit of Bank of America.
Subprime loans are typically made to borrowers with weaker credit, and they carry high interest rates and fees -- for example, a 13 percent interest rate for a home mortgage, versus current prevailing rates of about 7 percent. 
Of course, many subprime loans are not predatory, and lenders argue that the proliferation of these loans has made credit available to far more families than a decade ago. Restrictions, the industry says, can harm people who otherwise would not qualify for loans. 
Last year, Countrywide withdrew from subprime lending in North Carolina, saying that the state's new law made it too difficult to do business.
But consumer advocates say the soaring growth of subprime lending has resulted in many borrowers taking on predatory loans they will never be able to repay. 
Last year, a report by the Treasury Department and Department of Housing and Urban Development on predatory lending found that "evidence from a number of cities demonstrates that foreclosure actions have grown at a disturbing rate in inner city neighborhoods." In Baltimore, for example, foreclosure petitions increased to more than 5,000 in 1999 from 1,900 four years earlier.
The report concluded that borrowers of subprime mortgages do not understand that "the downside risk is no longer just bankruptcy, but loss of a home."
Fueled by money from Wall Street, subprime home refinancings rose 900 percent, to 790,000 annually, from 1993 to 1998, HUD reported last year. More than half of the refinancings in predominantly black neighborhoods in 1998 were made with subprime loans, over five times the rate in white neighborhoods, HUD found.
Some bankers say they are unfairly being dragged into what should be a fight over subprime lending practices. 
"Traditional banks are not where the problem is," said Joe Brannen, president of the Georgia Bankers Association, which this year successfully fought to defeat strict state legislation and replace it with what consumer advocates described as a substantially weakened measure.
The sponsor of the Georgia legislation, Vincent Fort, a Democratic state senator from Atlanta, said banks make too much money from subprime lending not to resist the legislation. 
"All of them, to one extent or the other, do subprime lending," Mr. Fort said, "or they plan on getting into it."
Advocates do not expect strong federal legislation, and they acknowledge that existing federal law limits how much states and cities can do. Representative John J. LaFalce of New York, ranking Democrat on the House Financial Services Committee, recently introduced antipredatory lending legislation, but with lenders opposed, he doubts the legislation has any better chance than past measures, which have failed.
The Federal Reserve has stepped into the fray with a proposal to expand consumer protections on certain high-cost loans to at least 5 percent of subprime loans from the current 1 percent.
However, advocates may be having the most success at the local level. In Chicago, the City Council passed an ordinance last year forbidding the city to do business with predatory lenders. In Chicago and its suburbs, foreclosures on subprime loans increased to almost 5,000 in 1999 from 131 in 1993, said Gov. George H. Ryan of Illinois. 
Now, lenders have turned their attention to Philadelphia, where a similar ordinance proposed by Councilwoman Marian Tasco is scheduled for a vote this week. Citigroup, for example, has hired local lobbyists and has sent in staff lobbyists from other cities to make its case.
Despite efforts to stop Ms. Tasco's bill and others like it around the country, Citigroup is "in favor of supporting legislation that would go after the bad actors out there," said Pamela Flaherty, who manages community relations for the company. "We don't want to do it in a way that hurts the ability of people with less than perfect credit to get loans."
Last week, a Citigroup lobbyist tried to get the Philadelphia council to support an amendment that would have exempted affiliates of banks, such as its own Citifinancial unit, which is one of the bigger subprime lenders in the city. The amendment failed to find a sponsor. 
"Household and Citibank wanted to amend the bill to the point where it would really be gutted," she said.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Below Prime"Subprime lending -- mortgage loans at high interest rates to people with poor credit ratings -- represents a significant part of all home lending. Graphs track SUBPRIME LOANS and SUBPRIME LOANS AS PERCENTAGE OF ALL NEW MORTGAGES from 1994-1999 PERCENTAGE OF MORTGAGE REFINANCINGS THAT WERE SUBPRIME IN NEIGHBORHOODS THAT WERE . . . Predominantly blackAt least 75 percent'93: 8%'98: 51% Predominantly whiteAt least 85 percent'93: 1%'98: 9%(Sources: Treasury Department; Department of Housing and Urban Development)(pg. C17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PREDATORY LENDING (91%); FORECLOSURE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); FAIR LENDING (90%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); BUSINESS TORTS (89%); CREDIT REGULATION (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CITIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); FAMILY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); CONSUMER LENDING (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); LEGAL SERVICES (72%); CREDIT INSURANCE (69%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (68%); INTEREST RATES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (66%); LITIGATION (66%); SUITS & CLAIMS (63%); GARMENT WORKERS (62%); APPAREL MFG (50%) HOUSING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FORECLOSURES; MORTGAGES; CREDIT; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (91%); ASSOCIATES FIRST CAPITAL CORP (64%)

ORGANIZATION: CITIGROUP INC; HOUSEHOLD INTERNATIONAL INC 

TICKER: C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (64%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (64%)

PERSON: CONNIE MACK (71%); BILL CLINTON (56%) MACK, CONNIE; MCLARTY, THOMAS F 3D; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); OPPEL, RICHARD A JR; MCGEEHAN, PATRICK 

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (77%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (55%); DAYTON, OH, USA (54%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) PHILADELPHIA (PA); NEW YORK STATE; MASSACHUSETTS

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2001 



130 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 661 words

HEADLINE: Liberties; 
The Tyro's Twister

BYLINE:  By MAUREEN DOWD 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Yellow ribbons. Energy crisis. Economic yips. The president shrinking into a tiny little figure in political cartoons.
 We're not getting Bush II. We're getting Carter II. All we need is the Killer Rabbit. And that is not where you want to be at the beginning of your presidency. 
 This is supposed to be a business-friendly, Harvard M.B.A. administration, but every time W. opens his mouth the markets tumble.
The White House had to wait until 4 p.m., when the markets closed, to let the president come out to the Rose Garden and start talking tough to China. Those little red Nasdaq and Dow numbers diving next to W.'s mouth moving would have undermined the image of American strength.
"The only issue now is whether his statements will drive down the Japanese markets," said one member of Bush II.
The only time W. has any luck with numbers is when it comes to counting and recounting the vote in Florida.
An already retro administration became even more vintage yesterday, with our spy plane "detained" in Communist territory. First we get in a tussle with Russia. Now China. Let's get out the yellow paint and start touching up those fallout shelter signs.
During the campaign, W. vowed, "We'll have a foreign policy that is humble." Humble is fine. But humbled is not so fine.
W. was green when he ran. But he promised to surround himself with gray. His inner circle -- Cheney, Rummy, Condi and Colin -- was supposed to offer a couple of hundred years of combined experience in government.
After the adolescent Clinton era, the grown-ups were back in charge.
So why has this crowd made all of us -- including the rest of the world -- so nervous?
Because, as a top foreign policy official in Bush I told me, they are too belligerent, too conservative, too blunt, too negative and too improvisational in dealing with the globe on everything from missile defense to Kyoto.
Alluding to the "Grumpy Old Men" foreign policy of Dick & Rummy as they advise the Tyro in Chief on how to handle Russia, China, Taiwan, Korea and the Middle East, an editorial in a leading German paper recently dubbed the new American president "Bully Bush." You know you're in trouble when the Germans complain you are too bellicose.
Even though his administration has been arrogant, W. still seems tentative when he ventures out to draw a line in the sand.
"You're never quite sure," somebody in the administration conceded, "if those papers in front of W. blew away in the wind, if he would know what to say."
If W. has to be supervised by officials who are in loco parentis, I would prefer the real parents. At least George Bush senior is not a wingnut, and at least he was a diplomat in China.
When Bill Clinton was president, he was always plunging into personal chaos. 
His management style was a mess. He ran a college-dorm White House. Meetings did not start on time. He pulled all-nighters. There were endless debates and endless greasy pizza deliveries. His private life was always exploding.
But outside his twister, things were palmy in the country and the markets.
W. is in a genial bubble. But outside his inner peace, the world looks more and more like a twister. He's taking naps and knocking off early while the rest of us are getting jittery and losing sleep.
The Bush organization men start every meeting on time and end every meeting on time. They have a ban on beepers and cell phones during press conferences, and a ban on sloppy clothes.
But everything outside the smoothly running White House is not smooth.
Seventy-five days into the Bush regime and I'm a wreck. I'm afraid to drink the water. I'm afraid to breathe the air. I'm afraid glaciers will melt and seas will rise. I'm afraid to visit California in the dark. I'm afraid the Dow will dip below 5,000. I'm afraid Russia will take leave of its senses. I'm afraid China will take lave of its senses. I'm afraid North Korea will lob a missile our way. 
At the rate things are reeling backward, soon I'll be fearing fear itself. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (88%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CONSERVATISM (73%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

PERSON: GEORGE H W BUSH (79%) DOWD, MAUREEN; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (93%); TAIWAN (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2001 



131 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1395 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place; 
Nightmare on Wall Street: A Tightfisted Consumer

BYLINE:  By GRETCHEN MORGENSON 

 BODY:
During the first three months of the year, many investors wondered just how much worse things could get in the stock market. They are getting their answer, loud and painfully clear, in April.
 Technology stocks, which have taken the brunt of this bear market's beating, endured more punishment yesterday. The Nasdaq composite index lost 6.17 percent as investors dumped shares of software companies and telecommunications concerns. The Nasdaq is now down 32.3 percent for the year. 
 But the selling also spread to the Dow Jones industrial average yesterday, which lost 292.22 points, or almost 3 percent of its value. Only one of the 30 stocks in the Dow registered a gain -- Home Depot. 
The decline in the Dow appears to represent a shift away from the view, held by many investors, that the bear market could remain relatively contained to technology shares. Such a sentiment had helped keep the Dow Jones industrial average -- with its broad array of companies from a variety of industries -- afloat in the Nasdaq storm. Now the Dow is being buffeted by sellers who seem to think there is no haven in United States stocks, after all. 
Adding to some investors' unease yesterday was the heightened dispute between China and the United States over the collision of a Chinese fighter and a Navy intelligence plane, and the status of the American crew and aircraft in Chinese hands. 
James W. Paulsen, chief investment officer at Wells Capital Management in Minneapolis, said: "Until late February, the entire stock market was just correcting the technology bubble. Now, this has broadened out to be not just a tech decline but looking more like a full-blown recessionary decline." 
Technology shares continue to tumble as demand wanes for Internet routing equipment, cellular telephones and fiber optic cable. Fears of rising bankruptcy filings among smaller telecommunications concerns have infected industry giants like Nortel Networks, Lucent Technologies and Qualcomm. All three hit new 52-week lows yesterday.
In the last two days alone, the Nasdaq composite index is down more than 9 percent, closing yesterday at 1,673. It has lost more than two-thirds of its value since it reached a close-of-trading-session peak of 5,048.62 on March 10, 2000. 
Investors fleeing the carnage took refuge earlier this year in shares of companies selling goods and services to consumers, who have continued to spend. Technology expenditures might fall, their thinking went, but surely the consumer could again be relied on to pick up the slack and keep the economy out of recession. 
Now they are not so sure. 
It is consumer spending, the engine of economic growth, that concerns economists and analysts most. It helped prop up the Dow industrials until recently, but continued strength is in doubt, some say. Witness the recent declines in the shares of Philip Morris, Coca-Cola, Wal-Mart Stores and other companies that had remained somewhere near their recent highs as technology stocks collapsed. 
"Our general feeling is the next shoe to drop in the economy is a slowdown in consumer spending," said Jason Trennert, economist at ISI Group, a broker-dealer in New York specializing in economic research. "For us, it is inconceivable that you could take $5 trillion out of stock market wealth and not see a major impact on consumer confidence."
There is no doubt that consumers are crucial to economic growth. Their spending accounts for a significant portion of the growth in the gross domestic product. And even as a great deal of stock market wealth has evaporated, consumers have remained surprisingly upbeat. Consumer confidence, while down from its peaks, bounced back in March.
Purchases of big-ticket items like new cars and homes have remained healthy. General Motors said auto sales slipped less than had been expected in March, indicating that consumers continue to spend in the economic slowdown.
A key reason for the buying power is a still strong employment market. According to the Labor Department, 135,000 jobs were added in February. 
But consumer spending could dry up if a recent increase in layoffs begins to multiply. Delphi Automotive Systems, Charles Schwab, Citigroup, Motorola and Procter & Gamble have announced recently that they are cutting their work forces. More cutbacks, economists say, are close on the horizon.
"What has become clear in the last couple of weeks is that there is excess capacity and excess headcount beyond technology companies," said Liz K. Miller, portfolio manager at Trevor, Stewart Burton & Jacobsen, a money management firm in New York. "Managements are going to respond the same way they have in every other recession -- through general contraction." 
The problem is that consumers have little cushion to soften the blow of layoffs. Many of their personal balance sheets are creaking under a load of debt, and savings are close to nonexistent. During the 90's, Americans piled on debt. Consumer debt as a share of the gross domestic product now stands at close to 71 percent, a new high, and up almost half from the early 1980's. As a share of personal income, household debt has risen to 85 percent, also a record. 
According to Moody's Investors Service, American households' liquid financial assets -- including savings accounts and other assets that can be converted to cash relatively easily -- dropped 13.2 percent in the first three months of this year from the first three months of 2000. Although these household assets as a percentage of debt are still greater than they were from 1985 to 1990, this quarter's plunge would be the steepest since a 14.3 percent decline in late 1974, during a recession and a bear market.
And personal savings as a percentage of disposable income went into negative territory last July, meaning that for the first time, consumers as a whole were spending more than they had in disposable income. In January, the figure fell to a negative 0.98 percent, the lowest ever. In February it rose a bit, but it remains at a negative 0.91 percent.
"Indebtedness-to-income levels are as high as they've ever been," Mr. Paulsen of Wells Capital said. "You can be very indebted, but it will never surface if everyone has a job. If we have a large rise in unemployment, we may find out how bad the debt problem is among the lower half of the income distribution. And that has a lot of ripples."
Mr. Paulsen says that the recent weakness in the prices of consumer stocks may be forecasting a decline in consumption itself in coming months. "Even though stock markets don't predict recessions accurately," he said, "the moves do predict speed-ups or declines in the economy. This move tells me that three months out, we'll start to see some of these consumer statistics really tail off."
Economists at Goldman, Sachs estimate that from 1995 to 2000, the rise in household net worth -- largely owing to the stock market's surge -- propelled growth in the gross domestic product by more than one percentage point a year. At the same time, the savings rate fell.
Now that stock investors have lost several trillion dollars, at least on paper, they will probably try harder to save. "I think they're already feeling the need to try to compensate by saving a little more," said Edward McKelvey, senior economist at Goldman, Sachs. "But there has been no progress in doing that, which suggests that we are likely to have more retrenchment in consumer spending." This spending is expected to show 2.7 percent year-over-year growth for the quarter just ended, from a year earlier. By the third quarter, Mr. McKelvey estimates, the growth will have slowed to 0.8 percent from a year earlier. 
So, stock investors, already fearful that corporate earnings will not turn up anytime soon, are adding the worry of a parsimonious consumer to the mix. "The market's very troubled by the fact that earnings aren't recovering," Mr. McKelvey said. "Add to that a nervousness about the consumer and a general recognition that the slowdown we are in has a significant risk of turning into a recession."
The Wall Street economist Henry Kaufman agreed. "There is a recognition within the market," he said, "that the easing by the central banks so far is not going to arrest the slowdown immediately. For the first time, the Fed is admitting there is a negative wealth effect. My own view is we ought to have a substantial tax cut now."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "A Rough Year"+20% since Jan. 1, 2001 Graph tracks the following from January-March: Dow industrials-12.1% S.& P. 500-16.2% Nasdaq composite-32.3%(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (71%); FIBER OPTICS (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (71%); EMERGING MARKETS (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); NAVIES (65%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (65%); EXECUTIVES (64%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (62%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE 

COMPANY: ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (64%); NORTEL NETWORKS CORP (64%); QUALCOMM INC (53%); WAL-MART STORES INC (50%); COCA-COLA CO (50%)

TICKER: ALU (PAR) (64%); ALU (NYSE) (64%); ALU (BIT) (64%); QCOM (NASDAQ) (53%); WMT (NYSE) (50%); KO (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (64%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (64%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (64%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (50%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (50%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (50%)

PERSON: MORGENSON, GRETCHEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (79%)

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2001 



132 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 857 words

HEADLINE: National Briefing 

 BODY:
 SOUTHWEST

TEXAS: EXPANDED USE OF DNA TESTS -- A bill making it easier for inmates to use DNA tests to try to prove their innocence received final approval from the Legislature, and Gov. Rick Perry is expected to sign it into law. The legislation requires prosecutors to preserve biological evidence and provides state-paid DNA testing if it was not available at trial and could clear an inmate. One amendment to the bill requires courts to provide lawyers for indigent inmates; another allows inmates who pleaded guilty to request testing. AP

ARIZONA: A RIOT AFTER A LOSS -- The police arrested six people in downtown Tucson on Monday night for assault, disorderly conduct and trespassing in disturbances after the University of Arizona's loss to Duke in the college basketball championship game. Hundreds of fans set fire to cars, smashed store windows and exploded fireworks, and were subdued by police officers with tear gas and rubber bullets. Similar violence by fans of losing teams has erupted this year in Indiana and Maryland. Michael Janofsky (NYT)

MIDWEST

MISSOURI: DEMOCRAT WINS IN ST. LOUIS -- As expected, Francis Slay, left, the Democrat who presides over the aldermanic board in St. Louis, easily won election as mayor. The Republican contender, Michael Chance, a computer programmer, had urged voters to "try something different" after 56 years of Democratic leadership under which the city's population shrank and social and economic problems grew. But Mr. Slay was so confident they would not -- few cities are more heavily Democratic -- that he campaigned relatively little and ran no television advertisements. Mr. Chance had no money for advertisements. B. Drummond Ayres Jr. (NYT)

SOUTH

LOUISIANA: SETBACK IN CASE AGAINST GUN MAKERS -- The State Supreme Court ruled that New Orleans could not sue gun makers for the costs of treating victims of gun violence. The city was the first in the country to pursue a legal strategy against gun manufacturers in 1998, but the State Legislature passed a law to block the suit. In a 5-to-2 ruling, the court said the law was justified because the state had the power to regulate guns. David Firestone (NYT)

MID-ATLANTIC

DELAWARE: BUSH PUSHES EDUCATION PLAN -- President Bush visited an after-school program in a poor neighborhood of Wilmington in an effort to raise the political profile of his education plan. The plan broadly seeks to loosen restrictions on how states use federal money for education, in exchange for annual testing in grades three to eight. Republicans and Democrats have clashed ove cents educational vouchers, which would allow students to leave failing schools and take some federal money with them. A possible compromise being discussed would be a demonstration project that would allow limited use of vouchers. Diana Jean Schemo (NYT)

NEW ENGLAND

MASSACHUSETTS: MORE 'BIG DIG' TROUBLES -- The state attorney general has opened a criminal investigation into whether state officials tried to cover up huge cost overruns on the "Big Dig" highway project beneath downtown Boston. The price has climbed to $14 billion, although as late as last year state officials said they were meeting their $10.8 billion budget. The attorney general's office said it was not investigating Gov. Paul Cellucci, who is to appear before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee today as President Bush's choice for ambassador to Canada. Julie Flaherty (NYT)

RHODE ISLAND: DEBATE CANCELED -- A Brown University student group has canceled a debate scheduled for today that would have featured David Horowitz, the conservative author who placed advertisements in several campus newspapers, including Brown's, denouncing calls for reparations to black Americans for slavery. The cancellation was first reported in The Brown Daily Herald. "We felt there was definitely the potential for violence," said Abby McEwen, the president of the Brown College Republicans, the organization that had invited Mr. Horowitz to Providence, to debate the president of a local chapter of the N.A.A.C.P. Jacques Steinberg (NYT)

WASHINGTON

AGRICULTURE AIDES ANNOUNCED -- Agriculture Secretary Ann M. Veneman, who is from California, selected her top aides today, choosing farmers from the Midwest and the South. Her choice for deputy secretary is James R. Moseley, a hog farmer and former agricultural official from Indiana, which is also the home of Senator Richard G. Lugar, the Republican who heads the Agricultural Committee. For undersecretary for marketing and regulation, Ms. Veneman selected Bill Hawks of Mississippi, who was recommended by his state's two Republican senators: Trent Lott, the majority leader, and Thad Cochran, chairman of the Agriculture subcommittee on appropriations. Elizabeth Becker (NYT)

POSTAL CUTS EXPECTED -- The Postal Service said that it would consider cutting back to a five-day schedule that would eliminate mail delivery on Saturdays. And post office officials also said they would look into potential savings from consolidating and closing some postal plants and offices. The service faces a $2 billion to $3 billion loss this fiscal year, officials said. (NYT)

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DNA (91%); DNA TESTING (91%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); FORENSIC DNA TESTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); APPROVALS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); GUN CONTROL (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LITIGATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); FORENSICS (78%); RIOTS (78%); CRIMINAL TRESPASS (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); VIOLENT CRIME (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); MAYORS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (76%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (76%); DISORDERLY CONDUCT (75%); POPULATION DECLINE (75%); CITIES (74%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (74%); EDUCATION FUNDING (74%); SPORTS FANS (73%); LAWYERS (73%); GUILTY PLEAS (72%); FIREARMS (72%); SHOOTINGS (72%); ARRESTS (72%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); BASKETBALL (71%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (71%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (69%); CITY LIFE (69%); FIRES (68%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (65%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (64%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (63%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (63%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (60%); BASKETBALL TOURNAMENTS (54%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA (56%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (88%); TUCSON, AZ, USA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) ARIZONA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (88%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2001 



133 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1468 words

HEADLINE: COLLISION WITH CHINA: THE WASHINGTON VIEW; 
Powell Sees No Need for Apology; Bush Again Urges Return of Crew

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 3 

 BODY:
Secretary of State Colin N. Powell declared today, "We have nothing to apologize for" in the collision of an American spy plane with a Chinese fighter, while President Bush briefly emerged to warn China "it is time for our servicemen and women to return home."
 In a brief statement in the Rose Garden minutes after he talked by telephone with the American general who visited the crew of the United State plane held by China, the president set no deadlines and left unclear what kind of options he would pursue if Beijing failed to comply. But he also tried to sound reassuring, saying that the crew members had "suffered no injuries" and they "send their love to their families." 
 Then, after calling for their immediate return, he turned on his heel and walked quickly back to the Oval Office, declining for a second day to take any questions.
Tonight, a senior administration official, asked about China's demand today for an apology before releasing the crew, said: "There isn't a need for an apology. If we can get past the point of recriminations, we can figure out what happened." 
The senior official who briefed reporters tonight said the United States was not willing to cut back on the number of spy missions along the Chinese coast, another Chinese demand. "The United States was well within its rights to do what it was doing in international airspace," the official told a small group of reporters, "and that is not up for discussion."
There was some discussion within the administration today of getting a third country to act as an intermediary. Singapore would be the obvious choice, since many of its officials are Western-trained ethnic Chinese, who consult closely with Washington. But one official said the idea was "not likely to fly," and another said it had not reached the White House.
Based on the meeting today with the crew members detained on Hainan Island, Bush administration officials described the plane as damaged far more severely than they originally thought. One engine was knocked out entirely by the collision with the Chinese fighter plane, which crashed into the sea, and another propeller was damaged. The pilot had no working airspeed indicator, and the plane plunged 8,000 feet immediately after the impact. "It was a miraculous job of piloting," one official said. 
The extent of the damage suggest ed that the aircraft's crew members had little time to focus on destroying military software, data and equipment aboard as they stabilized the aircraft and prepared for what was a risky landing. "You're briefed to address the safety of the crew before the compromise of information," a Pentagon official said.
Mr. Bush's appearance in the Rose Garden this afternoon was the second time in two days that he has issued a terse comment in the standoff with the Chinese leadership. He seemed nervous initially, taking a deep, audible breath before delivering his brief statement.
Once again, he left unanswered many questions about American strategy in a strange incident that the new administration, in the words of one of his senior advisers, is taking "step by step."
In their private communications with American officials -- both here and in Beijing -- the Chinese have not indicated how long they intend to hold the 24 Americans. "The Chinese said they need time to, I believe the words were 'to complete their investigation,' " the senior administration official said tonight.
Toward that end the Chinese have questioned the crew members, many of them cryptology specialists, and by some accounts have removed intelligence equipment from the plane. While the spy plane remains in open view on the airfield where it landed, crew members have been removed to a military guesthouse, where they are sleeping two to a room.
Behind the scenes, Mr. Bush's top aides were acknowledging that they had little leverage over the Chinese.
"There aren't a lot of good options," one senior official said. Another noted that withdrawing America's ambassador in protest would "deprive us of our point man," and that threatening economic sanctions against a country that supplies American industry with critical components for everything from phones to computers would be "counterproductive at best, stupid at worst." 
There was also increasing anger at the Chinese, which was not alleviated by the circumstances surrounding the visit to the crew members today. Officials said that Brig. Gen. Neal Sealock, the American defense attache in Beijing, who led the delegation on Hainan Island, was not permitted to discuss in detail with the crew the circumstances of their collision with a Chinese fighter jet over the South China Sea on Sunday.
With Chinese officials sitting in on the conversation with the 24 -- no individual meetings were permitted -- the envoys could not take up the issue of how the crew shut down the plane or what intelligence-gathering equipment, software and files they were able to destroy before the plane was boarded by Chinese military.
"It was a tense encounter with the Chinese," said one official who had read the reports of the meeting on Hainan Island. One official said General Sealock was not permitted to distribute candy that he had brought along for the detained crew members.
In his public statement, Mr. Bush said, "We have allowed the Chinese government time to do the right thing," a statement that officials here said was intended to signal to the Chinese leadership that Washington had run out of patience. 
And Mr. Bush made his most specific suggestion that America's broad engagement with China as at risk. "This accident has the potential of undermining our hopes for a fruitful and productive relationship between our two countries," he said. "To keep that from happening, our servicemen and women need to come home."
Mr. Bush's use of the Rose Garden to deliver his personal messages to President Jiang Zemin and other Chinese leaders -- rather than the hotline between the White House and Mr. Jiang's office -- is a curious choice. Public statements assure that all Chinese leaders, military and political, hear the same message at the same time. But it may also undercut efforts to make a private deal, the way the Clinton administration dealt with the American bombing of the Chinese Embassy in Belgrade, and Henry Kissinger set up Richard Nixon's first opening to Beijing.
There have been private conversations under way: The American ambassador in Beijing, Adm. Joseph W. Preuher, has met with with the senior vice foreign minister, Zhou Wenzhong , according to State Department officials. The undersecretary of state for political affairs, Marc I. Grossman, met with the newly arrived Chinese ambassador, Yang Jiechi. And Deputy Secretary of State Richard L. Armitage met today with Mr. Yang.
General Powell, speaking with reporters on his flight from Florida to Washington today, described both meetings with Mr. Yang as an "exchange of views" and not a dialogue.
Asked if President Bush would talk directly to Mr. Jiang, whose own power to resolve the standoff is now being questioned in the State Department and the Central Intelligence Agency, the official said that "at some point it may be appropriate to push this to higher levels."
That would entail some risk. President Clinton once said the hot line was useful only after the leaders on each end got to know and trust each other. Mr. Bush and Mr. Jiang have not met.
Some American officials speculate that Mr. Jiang cannot risk seeming to bend to the new president's will, especially because Beijing fears that Mr. Bush will approve the sale of advanced weapons and radar to Taiwan. "Jiang is probably feeling pretty exposed," one senior American diplomat said.
Mr. Bush may have similar feelings. He is caught between one wing of his party, propelled by American business interests, that wants deep economic engagement with China and another that wants to contain China's power.
At the Pentagon today, a spokesman was asked whether Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld was planning to voice concerns. "Clearly, we believe that there is a diplomatic solution to this incident and not a military one," said the spokesman, Rear Adm. Craig Quigley.
The administration faces a difficult choice in the next few days: How to dissuade China from making an apology the prerequisite for the crews' release or, alternatively, how to fashion a statement that would satisfy the Chinese but also be acceptable to the administration and Congress.
One possibility is to set up a commission of American and Chinese officials to investigate the collision and come up with a plan to avoid repeating it.
On his plane today, General Powell sidestepped questions about how long the Chinese could hold onto the crew without provoking a sharp American reaction. "I don't want to put a time limit on it," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A photograph of the damaged United States Navy plane on Hainan island was released yesterday by the official Chinese news agency. (New China News Agency via Associated Press)(pg. A11) Chart/Diagram: "Inside the EP-3E"The EP-3E is filled with sophisticated eavesdropping equipment that can monitor any kinds of communication. It carries 24 crew members, many of whom decode the transmissions. WORK STATIONS Aircraft commanderVisua observation stationNavigation consoleManual radar station for backup if main computer failsLong-range radar to track aircraft, ships and submarinesShort-range radar to intercept communications between other aircraftRadar and electronics support operatorRadar and electronics supervisorData processing and district bution to other planes, ships or land basesCommunications intelligence supervisorFive-member communications intelligence consoleCommunications intelligence (Sources: Jane's Electronic Mission Aircraft; Gene Porteat, Association of Former Intelligence Officers)(pg. A11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SURVEILLANCE & RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (90%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); ESPIONAGE (78%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (78%); AIRLINES (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); COASTAL AREAS (70%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (63%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (60%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; MILITARY AIRCRAFT; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY 

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%) POWELL, COLIN L (SEC); SANGER, DAVID E; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (58%) SOUTH CHINA (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); HAINAN, CHINA (77%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (97%) CHINA; HAINAN ISLAND (CHINA)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2001 



134 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: Mr. McCain's Journey 

 BODY:
Senator John McCain's grin told the story. So did the headline yesterday on The Times's front page: "A McCain Victory." By any measure, the Arizona senator scored what all of Washington recognizes as a big win. He got a bill embodying his signature issue, campaign finance reform, passed over the opposition of the Congressional leadership of his own party. President Bush, who had opposed the measure since he and Mr. McCain faced off in the presidential primaries, will probably sign the bill if it gets through the House of Representatives. As an editorial page that supported the legislation sponsored by Mr. McCain and Senator Russell Feingold, we savored their victory. Mr. Feingold and the Senate Democratic leader, Tom Daschle, both played important roles. But it was Mr. McCain's presidential campaign that galvanized public support, so this seems an appropriate moment to ponder the unusual life and political evolution of John McCain and to speculate on his future. 
 Today he is more popular and potent as a national political figure than anyone in his party except Mr. Bush. Partly that is because the American public likes politicians whose lives represent a journey of growth and adventure. John McCain's story has a powerful arc from his days as a rebellious Annapolis midshipman to his five years of captivity and torture in North Vietnam. He rose to political prominence as a standard-issue conservative Sun Belt Republican, and in the most searing experience of his public life saw his reputation damaged by being counted among the "Keating five" -- a group of senators who met with regulators on behalf of Charles Keating, a savings and loan operator. Mr. McCain's main offense was bad judgment, but the experience turned him into a born-again believer in driving special-interest money out of politics. His is, in short, a biography that encompasses both miraculous physical survival and political redemption. His resulting status as a politician driven by conviction made him a force on the presidential campaign trail. 
 Those same traits have made him an underappreciated asset for the Republican Party. His testing of George W. Bush in the primaries probably gave Mr. Bush the seasoning he needed to take on Al Gore. But the primaries also created lasting strains between the two men and their staffs. The White House, for all its emphasis on bipartisanship, looks askance at the way Mr. McCain practices it. It also worries about his view of campaign finance reform as the "gateway to reform" on a broader scale.
Military procurement and pork-barrel spending are two areas Mr. McCain likes to talk about. But it is health care and tax cuts that will test his relationship with Mr. Bush. He has signed on with two Democratic senators, John Edwards and Ted Kennedy, to support a patients' rights measure that would cap damage suits at $5 million and allow them to be tried in state courts. Mr. Bush favors a measure that would cap settlements around the $750,000 level adopted in Texas and would limit suits to federal court.
On taxes, Mr. McCain's populist economic streak could bring him into collision with the president's tax plan. He opposed the Bush cuts as too large in the presidential primaries, but now says he might support them because of changed economic circumstances. Even so, Mr. McCain worries that the Bush plan is tilted toward the rich, and we hope he will use his influence to make it fairer for working people. 
A nervous Senate leadership will be watching him for signs of disloyalty. It also fears Mr. McCain's ability to get influential Senate committee chairmen such as Pete Domenici, Ted Stevens and Richard Lugar to support McCain-Feingold. For his part, Mr. McCain eems more interested in fellow Republicans' respect than their affection. If he becomes a forceful critic of the Bush tax plan, the term "maverick" will be permanently placed in front of his name. But that will not deprive him of a national following based more on his popularity with Democrats and independents than with Republican regulars. And whatever happens on taxes, this forthright and independent legislator has already earned the title of reformer. That is more than can be said of most senators. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); ETHICS (77%); HEALTH CARE (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); CONSERVATISM (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); TAX LAW (71%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (68%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (66%) ELECTIONS; EDITORIALS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ETHICS 

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (96%); JOHN EDWARDS (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (76%); RUSS FEINGOLD (74%); TOM DASCHLE (59%); TED KENNEDY (59%); AL GORE (59%) MCCAIN, JOHN (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); VIET NAM (54%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2001 



135 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1390 words

HEADLINE: Environmental Reversals Leave Moderate Republicans Hoping for Greener Times 

BYLINE:  By ROBIN TONER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 3 

 BODY:
These are not easy days for the greener wing of the Republican Party. A series of environmental reversals by the Bush administration has highlighted an old fault line in the party that is both geographic and ideological and shaken many of the party's Northeastern moderates.
 Representative Christopher Shays, Republican of Connecticut, says his college-student daughter, "a true-blue Republican," is wondering "what the heck is happening with our party when it comes to the environment." 
 Representative Marge Roukema, Republican of New Jersey, fired off a letter after the Bush administration reversed itself on regulating carbon dioxide emissions from power plants: "Mr. President, health and safety first! We urge you in the strongest possible terms to reconsider your decision." 
And Senator Lincoln Chafee, Republican of Rhode Island, when asked about the reaction back home, said, "There's a realization that some of the Western senators and more conservative elements of the party are calling some important shots," adding that the carbon dioxide issue was "an important one."
In fact, environmental issues often pit moderates against conservatives, Northeast against South and West in the Republican Party. The moderates, many from suburban districts that voted for Vice President Al Gore last year, are careful to praise President Bush's performance over all -- but are just as careful to note their disagreements on the environment. And these tensions are widely expected to increase as the administration moves on energy policy.
Democrats, scenting blood, have been scathing on the administration's recent environmental decisions to oppose the Kyoto treaty on global warming, to reverse the campaign position on carbon dioxide emissions and to reconsider Clinton administration standards on arsenic in drinking water. 
And environmental groups are warning that Mr. Bush's policies could cost his party dearly in next year's elections.
Ted Roosevelt, a Republican who is chairman of the League of Conservation Voters and was a Bush delegate at last year's party convention -- although his organization endorsed Mr. Gore -- described himself as "obviously disappointed." 
Mr. Roosevelt, whose great-grandfather President Theodore Roosevelt helped found the modern conservation movement, added of Mr. Bush: "The environment is such a key issue, and he's got such a very small margin in Congress. If the administration is consistently anti-environment, I can almost guarantee that he will lose a majority in both the House and the Senate."
Carl Pope, executive director of the Sierra Club, said the Bush decisions put moderate Republicans in a difficult place, with a choice of breaking with the administration or alienating their constituents.
It is not an unfamiliar place to them. Representative Sherwood Boehlert, the Republican from central New York who heads the House Committee on Science, often fought his party on environmental issues in the antiregulatory heyday of the Congress led by Newt Gingrich.
"We don't get paid for the easy ones," Mr. Boehlert said philosophically.
He is one of the highest-rated House members in the League of Conservation Voters' Republican honor roll, a list dominated by Northeasterners, who, Mr. Boehlert noted, have ample experience with the perils of pollution.
Mr. Boehlert said he was "profoundly disappointed" by Mr. Bush's position on carbon dioxide emissions, and would continue to push for legislation that would regulate those emissions as part of a "four-pollutant strategy." But he also said he remained hopeful about the Bush administration's environmental direction, noting that it was still early and that Mr. Bush had yet to assemble his science team. 
"When that happens, he will get some advice he is not now getting," Mr. Boehlert said.
William K. Reilly, who was administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency for Mr. Bush's father, President George Bush, also noted that Mr. Bush's decision on carbon dioxide had come "awfully early." 
"One really has to hope -- and I really do believe -- it's not the last word," Mr. Reilly said.
Indeed, many Republican moderates were delighted by the appointment, early on, of one of their own to the top job at the Environmental Protection Agency, former Gov. Christie Whitman of New Jersey. 
"That sent a strong signal to me that this administration is committed to improving our environment," said Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, who said she remained hopeful.
But Mrs. Whitman has been the target of fierce criticism on the right, and Mr. Bush's decision on carbon dioxide was widely seen as undercutting her at a critically early time.
Mrs. Whitman did not respond to a request for comment.
As for the White House, a spokesman said, "The president has taken any number of bold steps to safeguard our environment."
Asked about the environmental divisions in the Republican Party, Mr. Reilly said: "The antiregulatory wing of the Republican Party always gets stronger when it does not occupy the White House. Once in charge of the regulatory process, once on the line for pollution events or failures of environmental protection, Republican presidents become more environmentally sensitive, and Republicans generally become more environmentally supportive."
If nothing else, some analysts suggest, politics will push the administration greenward. And indeed, some environmentally friendly moves are expected from the White House before Earth Day on April 22. Charles Cook, who publishes an independent political newsletter, said that given the extraordinary closeness of the 2000 elections, "this whole suburban thing is key."
"They got killed in the non-Southern suburbs," Mr. Cook said of the Republicans, "and it's a collection of social, cultural and environmental things -- guns, abortion and certainly the environment."
"They need to do a couple really green things really soon," he added. "House Republicans back in '95 and '96 saw what happens if you are perceived as anti-environment. That really hurt them in '96."
Senator Robert C. Smith, the New Hampshire Republican who is chairman of the Environment and Public Works Committee, is cited by advocates on both sides as a man who recognized the power of the environment in his region. Mr. Smith, who is up for re-election in 2002, is described by Mr. Pope of the Sierra Club as "a profoundly conservative senator who knows how to listen to his constituents."
Others argue that the calculus is different now that the country is in an economic funk and worried about energy, and Mr. Bush seems a leading proponent of that view. 
A New York Times/CBS News Poll in early March suggested that this argument carried the most weight with Republicans. Asked which was most important, producing energy or protecting the environment, 44 percent said energy, 47 percent said the environment. But 64 percent of the independents polled said the environment should take precedence, as did 71 percent of the Democrats.
Grover Norquist, a conservative strategist, said Republicans needed to talk about the environment in their own terms.
"Just as you can be for poor people without signing on to some left-wing redistributionist scheme," Mr. Norquist said, "you can be for the environment without being for some extreme regulatory scheme."
As this struggle plays out, Mr. Boehlert said he expected the party's moderates to play a critical role.
"The balance is so close in the House, the moderates can tip it one way or the other," he said. (Although even among themselves, moderates can disagree on policy specifics, like the wisdom of the Kyoto treaty.)
For example, the administration's proposal to drill for oil in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, part of its energy policy, is dismissed out of hand by some moderates.
"The votes aren't there for drilling in A.N.W.R.," said Representative Constance A. Morella, Republican of Maryland, who was among the Republicans who successfully urged committee leaders to omit Arctic drilling from the budget resolution.
Representative James C. Greenwood, a Republican whose suburban Philadelphia district voted for Mr. Gore last year, argued: "We have to look for a position that may not be where the president is, and probably won't be where the Sierra Club is. But we moderate Republicans have to find a middle ground that's environmentally sensible."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Sherwood Boehlert, Republican of New York, is "profoundly disappointed" by the president's position on carbon dioxide emissions. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (75%); GLOBAL WARMING (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); POWER PLANTS (69%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (66%); SUBURBS (51%) ENVIRONMENT 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); LINCOLN CHAFEE (58%); AL GORE (58%); BLANCHE LINCOLN (58%); CHRISTOPHER SHAYS (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); TONER, ROBIN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2001 



136 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 687 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Rebuffs European Plea Not to Abandon Climate Pact 

BYLINE:  By DOUGLAS JEHL 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 3 

 BODY:
The Bush administration turned down a European request today that it reconsider a decision seen as likely to doom the international treaty on global warming known as the Kyoto accord.
 In meetings with European Union emissaries, who had been dispatched to Washington on an emergency mission, administration officials restated a view that the 1997 treaty was "unfair to the United States" and that it was not worthy of American support. 
 The European Union has been a vocal supporter of the accord, and it was among the foreign voices that reacted harshly to President Bush's decision last week to abandon the treaty, which was signed by the United States and 100 other countries. After a meeting with Christie Whitman, administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, the head of the European delegation said he had heard no indication that the administration might change its mind. 
"We are going to continue the Kyoto process; we have the same objectives as before," said the delegation chief, Kjell Larsson, who is Sweden's environment minister. "There are very small chances, if any, of United States participation."
The treaty has been ratified by only one country, Romania, and while it could technically be put into effect without American support, United States and foreign officials have described that scenario as highly unlikely.
With another international meeting on global warming scheduled for later this month, in New York, the new American stance leaves unresolved even the most basic questions about how the Bush administration might now propose to tackle the problem.
In a statement, Ms. Whitman said little more than that she was "optimistic" that through "international processes we can develop technologies, market-based incentives, and other innovative approaches to global climate change." She delivered much the same message to a conference of environment ministers from the Western Hemisphere in Montreal last week.
The White House has said the global warming policy is the subject of a cabinet-level review. But in a sign that the issue remains in flux, administration officials said today that no decisions had been made as to whether Ms. Whitman or some lower-level official would represent the United States at the New York meeting and at one in Bonn in July.
"They do not have any concrete alternatives or options for the moment," Margot Wallstrom, the European Union's environment commissioner, said after today's meetings. With Japan, Russia, Germany, Britain, Canada, Australia and France all explicit in their criticism of the new American position, Ms. Wallstrom said, the issue was becoming a foreign-policy problem for the United States.
"It is becoming clear to the Bush administration that this is about international relations as well, and other countries are reacting very strongly against the U.S.," she said.
The Kyoto treaty, the most far-reaching international agreement on global warming, would require the United States and other industrialized countries to reduce emissions of heat-trapping gases by 5 percent to 7 percent below 1990 levels by 2012.
The White House has objected in particular to the fact that, under the treaty, developing countries would not be subject to any immediate restriction. In ruling out a plan to impose restrictions on power plants' emissions of carbon dioxide, one of the gases that would be regulated under the accord, it said such a step would be too costly to the economy and to American consumers.
The 16-member delegation also met today with Richard Armitage, the deputy secretary of state, and Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., Democrat of Delaware, who as a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee has been critical of the administration's decision to abandon hope for the Kyoto accord.
Eileen Claussen, president of the Pew Center on Global Climate Change, a research and advocacy group in Washington, said today that it was important that the administration move swiftly in formulating a new policy.
"They know what they don't want, which is Kyoto," Ms. Claussen said. "I don't think they're very far along in deciding what they do want."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); CLIMATE CHANGE (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (64%) WEATHER; GREENHOUSE EFFECT; TREATIES 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (93%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (56%) EUROPEAN UNION 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); JEHL, DOUGLAS 

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (53%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); QUEBEC, CANADA (53%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); CANADA (92%); GERMANY (90%); FRANCE (79%); JAPAN (79%); ROMANIA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (54%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2001 



137 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1156 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-11

China Demands Apology For Planes' Collision
Beijing blamed the United States for the midair collision of a spy plane and a Chinese fighter, and it suggested that the release of the 24-member American crew hinged on Washington's willingness to apologize. President Bush called for the crew's immediate return, though he set no deadline. Secretary of State Colin L. Powell said he saw no reason for an American apology. A1

If the collision occurred where the Pentagon has indicated, the Bush administration has strong legal standing in demanding that both the plane and its crew be released promptly, several legal experts said. But in the more practical realm, they said, the American position could be damaged by some of the Pentagon's own actions in the cold war and after. A1

Two American officials met with crew members and said their condition appeared to be good. A10

Palestinian's Bleak Prognosis
Mohammed Dahlan, the Gaza security chief, said Palestinians, with little hope for a full peace settlement, were prepared for a long period of sacrifice. A mortar round wounded an Israeli baby in Gaza, and the Israelis retaliated by shelling. A8

Milosevic Admission on Bosnia
Bosnia's Foreign Ministry said an admission by the jailed former president of Yugoslavia, Slobodan Milosevic, that he channeled state funds to Serbian forces in Croatia and Bosnia in the 1990's should remove any doubt that Yugoslavia had a role in atrocities committed in those wars. A8

Putin as Friend to Business
President Vladimir V. Putin promised a governmentwide shake-up intended to make business work in Russia, reverse capital flight and sustain new economic growth. A3

Battle over Russian TV Station
Foes of the media baron Vladimir A. Gusinsky, who has been a frequent critic of President Vladimir V. Putin, staged a renegade stockholder's meeting at which they appeared to take control of the nationwide NTV television network, the only one not under effective state control. A3

World Briefing A8

NATIONAL A12-18

Cheney Plays Tiebreaker On a Bush Tax Cut Vote
Vice President Dick Cheney cast his first tie-breaking vote, enabling President Bush's tax plan to pass its first Senate test, 51 to 50. The vote blocked a Democratic effort to pare back the $1.6 trillion tax cut to pay for drug coverage under Medicare. A1

Shift in Health Priorities
President Bush's budget will propose deep cuts in various health programs for people without health insurance, administration officials said. The programs, championed by President Bill Clinton, would be reduced to $20 million from the current level of $140 million; the programs received $40 million in the previous fiscal year. Over all, officials said, the Health and Human Services budget will rise by 5 percent, to $55.5 billion. But all of the net increase goes to the National Institutes of Health, for biomedical research not patient care. A1

No Change on Climate Treaty
The Bush administration rejected a European request to reconsider its decision to abandon the Kyoto Protocol on global warming. A16

Strategy for Campaign Bill
House supporters of the Senate's newly passed McCain-Feingold campaign finance overhaul began a drive to bring the bill to a House vote before Memorial Day and promised to remind freshman Republicans whose last campaigns were aided by Senator John McCain of their commitment to changing the system. A18

Recount Review Favors Bush
A newspaperanalysis by The Miami Herald suggested that President Bush would have carried the state of Florida and won the presidency without Supreme Court intervention had a recount ordered by a state court been allowed to proceed. A18

Diversity, and Segregation
The United States is more racially and ethnically diverse than ever, but an analysis of new census data suggests that people still live in largely segregated neighborhoods. A15

A Drug Task Force Under Fire
A state prosecutor has dismissed charges against 17 residents of Hearne, in Central Texas, who were arrested by a drug task force accused of focusing on blacks. The prosecutor said a crucial informer had failed polygraph tests. A14

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

Modern Demands Putting Modernist Terminal at Risk
The Port Authority has approval from state officials to demolish a large piece of T.W.A.'s distinctive terminal, which is designated a city landmark, as part of a $10 billion redevelopment of Kennedy Airport. B1

Airline Passenger Cleared
A jury in Newark acquitted John C. Davis Jr. of assault in connection with his fight with an airline ticket agent, whose neck was broken. B1

SPORTS D1-8

Mets Beat Braves in Opener
The Mets beat Atlanta, 6-4, on a 10th-inning homer by Robin Ventura. D1

Admission From Strawberry
Darryl Strawberry's probation officer said the ex-slugger had admitted to a weekend cocaine-smoking spree. Strawberry remained hospitalized in Tampa, Fla., as prosecutors sought to have him sent to prison. D3

OBITUARIES A19

ARTS E1-10

A Tiff at the Met
Trouble is brewing between members of the grand old Metropolitan Opera Club and the Met over fees and exclusivity of the clubhouse, tucked away on the fourth floor. E1

Panel on Decency in Art
Mayor Giuliani appointed 15 men and 5 women to a panel that is to recommend decency standards for art in New York City museums. B3

EDCATION B7

Opening Up M.I.T., Online
The university is to announce today that it will post nearly all course materials on the Web, even video lectures, available free to anyone. A1

Suspending Unruly Students
Chancellor Harold O. Levy will propose regulations today giving teachers the power to remove disruptive students from their classrooms for up to four days. B1

BUSINESS DAY C1-18

Technology Pulls Down Markets
Investors dumped shares of software companies and telecommunications concerns, driving the Nasdaq down 6.17 percent, or 109.97 points, to 1,673.00; the index is now down 32.3 percent in 2001. The Dow fell 292.22 points, or 3 percent, to 9,485.71, and the S.& P. 500 lost 3.4 percent. C1

Discounts Propel Auto Sales
Automakers sold family vehicles at a seasonally adjusted annual pace of 17.1 million vehicles in March; 16 million is regarded as strong. Extensions of rebates and other discounts helped sustain the buying. C1

Effort to Play Deal Breaker
Maurice R. Greenberg, chief executive of American International Group, offered $23 billion in stock for American General, a move intended to break up a three-week-old deal by Britain's second-largest insurer to take over American General. C1

Inquiry of Drink Maker Sought
The Council of Better Business Bureaus wants the F.D.A. to investigate whether Hornell Brewing used false advertising for an herbal drink. C8

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

DINING F1-14

EDITORIAL A20-21

Editorials: Mr. McCain's journey; revisiting execution of the retarded; decency impaneled.

Columns: Paul Krugman, Maureen Dowd.

Crossword E7
TV Listings E9
Public Lives B2
Weather D8

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); BUDGETS (86%); TAX INCENTIVES (86%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); COLD WAR (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); PEACE PROCESS (69%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (68%); TAX LAW (65%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (65%); TAX RELIEF (65%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); HEALTH INSURANCE (63%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (63%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (63%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (62%); MEDICARE (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); BILL CLINTON (58%); DICK CHENEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (88%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%) UNITED STATES (97%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); ISRAEL (93%); CHINA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); CROATIA (79%); SERBIA (79%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2001 



138 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 908 words

HEADLINE: Bush Budget on Health Care Would Cut Aid to Uninsured 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 3 

 BODY:
President Bush's budget will propose deep cuts in a variety of health programs for people without health insurance, administration officials said today.
 Budget documents from the Department of Health and Human Services show that these programs, providing "health care access for the uninsured," would be reduced 86 percent, to $20 million, from $140 million in the current fiscal year. The programs received $40 million in 2000. 
 President Bill Clinton championed the programs -- notably the community access program -- as a way to help communities link up doctors, hospitals and clinics caring for people without health insurance. Mr. Clinton persuaded Congress last year to expand the programs so they could provide more comprehensive care, and the effort was praised by witnesses at a Senate hearing just two weeks ago. 
But a White House spokesman said today: "We intend to phase out the community access program. Creating new federal grants is not the best way to address health care access. It's an efficacy issue."
So far the White House has not disclosed many details of Mr. Bush's budget, which would cut taxes by $1.6 trillion over the next 10 years. But today's disclosure provides the second example of significant cuts in domestic programs. Earlier, administration officials acknowledged that the budget would include cuts in some programs for children and children's hospitals.
Over all, officials said, the budget of the Department of Health and Human Services will rise by 5 percent next year, to $55.5 billion. But all of the net increase goes to the National Institutes of Health, for support of biomedical research, not for the direct care of patients.
Mr. Bush's budget request, to be unveiled next Monday, would also cut federal spending for the training of doctors, dentists, nurses, pharmacists and other health professionals. 
Budget documents show that the money for such training would be reduced to $259 million next year, from $353 million this year. But White House officials said that since the documents were prepared just a few weeks ago, they had decided to make even deeper cuts. The president, they said, will seek $140 million for training health professionals, a reduction of 60 percent from this year's level.
White House officials defended the proposal, saying there was an oversupply of doctors, so there was little need for the government to subsidize their training. But defenders said the program also paid for the training of nurses, who are in short supply. Moreover, they said, the money helps finance the training of family practitioners, internists and other doctors who agree to work in underserved areas, and it has increased the number of blacks and Hispanics in health care jobs.
More generally, a White House official said, "one of our overall goals is to slow the rate of growth of federal spending." Health programs, like many domestic programs, received large increases last December because Congress and the Clinton administration showed little restraint on spending, the official said.
The president's budget for 2002 seeks $1.8 billion for the care of people with AIDS, the same amount Congress provided this year. Advocates for people with AIDS said there was no allowance for inflation in the cost of medical care and the expensive drugs used to combat H.I.V. infection.
"This is cause for grave concern," said Alexis L. Schuler, director of government affairs at AIDS Action, a lobbying and education group.
Because of the drugs, particularly protease inhibitors, people infected with the virus are living longer, meaning there is more demand for drug therapy and for care under the federal program.
Many state-based programs that provide drugs to uninsured people with H.I.V. or AIDS have placed new restrictions on benefits and enrollment because they are running short of money, the Kaiser Family Foundation reported last week.
After the disclosure of White House plans to cut certain programs for children, the administration scrambled to respond to its critics. Administration officials emphasized that they would increase spending on education and increase the federal tax credit for families with children. But Democrats said Mr. Bush was violating his campaign promise to "leave no child behind."
In February, Mr. Bush said he wanted to double the number of low-income people served by community health centers over the next five years. To that end, his budget recommends an increase of $124 million, or 10.6 percent, to provide a total of $1.3 billion for such clinics.
Many community health centers have difficulty recruiting doctors and depend on the National Health Service Corps, created in 1970 to provide basic care to inner-city neighborhoods and rural areas. Mr. Bush's budget does not provide any increase for the corps, which would receive $125 million in 2002.
Daniel R. Hawkins Jr., director of policy analysis at the National Association of Community Health Centers, said: "We appreciate the president's commitment to provide increased resources to serve twice as many people over the next five years. But we would hope such increases would not come at the expense of other important public health priorities."
At a Senate hearing on March 22, the association sought more money for the corps and the community access program.
"You can build a lot of health centers," said a pediatrician who works for the government, " but if you don't have anybody to work in them, it's a problem." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HOSPITALS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); DENTAL INSURANCE (89%); NURSES & NURSING (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (88%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (86%); SCIENCE NEWS (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (78%); PHARMACISTS (78%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (78%); FAMILY PRACTICE (78%); CHILDREN'S HOSPITALS (75%); INTERNAL MEDICINE (75%); BIOMEDICINE (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (71%); GRANTS & GIFTS (71%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (70%); TAX LAW (69%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; HEALTH INSURANCE; DOCTORS; HOSPITALS; RESEARCH 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (59%) HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES DEPARTMENT; NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); BILL CLINTON (89%) PEAR, ROBERT; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); CLINTON, BILL 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2001 



139 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1573 words

HEADLINE: What's Right With This Picture? 

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM L. HAMILTON 

 BODY:
SOME distant day, anthropologists may discover what was surely the tribal art of 20th-century American suburbia: paint-by-number paintings.
 As quickly as you could become a writer by corresponding with the Famous Writers School, lose weight without exercising, own sea horses or a monkey the size of a teacup, you could be a successful artist by completing a blue-printed numbered canvas, color-coded to tiny pots of paint. 
 The clowns, kittens, ballerinas, cowboys, New England landscapes, Pacific seascapes and Parisian cityscapes rendered by the ubiquitous hobbyists of the 1950's coincided with the dawn of tract-home civilization. Fifty years later, they already seem as remarkable as Lascaux. You just have to stumble across a cave of them. 
"O.K.," said Trey Speegle, sounding the roll call. "Jesuses, Sacred Hearts, Marys." Mr. Speegle, like a Vatican guide with a group behind him, marched down the stairs on the last leg of a tour of his four-story 19th-century town house in the Clinton Hill neighborhood of Brooklyn. The stairway holds the bulk of Mr. Speegle's collection of roughly 500 paint-by-number paintings, hung according to subject or genre. The masterpieces -- Mona Lisa, which he paid 165 big bucks for; the Gainsboroughs, Blue Boy and Lady Innes (a k a Pinky in paint-by-number circles); Ingres's odalisque -- are the cream at the top of the stairs.
"I know; it's ridiculous," said Mr. Speegle, the creative director of YM magazine, grabbing the offense. Not on the premises are 20 large works Mr. Speegle lent to the Smithsonian's National Museum of American History for "Paint by Number: Accounting for Taste in the 1950's," an exhibition opening tomorrow in Washington. The show, on view through Dec. 31, is the first full accounting of the popular pastime since 1992, when the Bridgewater Lustberg Gallery in New York put on display the collection of the late Michael O'Donoghue, a writer for "Saturday Night Live."
"I can remember them as the decorative condition of the neighborhood I grew up in," said William L. Bird Jr., the Smithsonian exhibition's curator, who grew up in suburban Washington. "They were a perfect match with people who aspired to own their own home -- the ultimate achievement of do-it-yourself."
Mr. Bird, whose parents took him at age 12 to see the "Mona Lisa" behind bulletproof glass at the National Gallery of Art in 1963, recalled returning to his house and seeing the framed Utrillos in the basement recreation room with new appreciation.
The paint-by-number concept was the work of two men: Dan Robbins, an artist who worked for the auto industry, and Max Klein, who manufactured paint.
"It's fitting it happened in Detroit," Mr. Bird said. "If General Motors had made art, this would have been it."
Mr. Robbins remembered that Leonardo da Vinci had left numbered sections of paintings for assistants to fill in. In 1952, he brought the idea to Mr. Klein, the owner of the Palmer Show Card Paint Company, his new employer. Mr. Klein saw potential in marketing fail-safe artists' kits, in part because of the celebrity of Sunday painters like President Eisenhower and Winston Churchill.
But he disliked Mr. Robbins's first proposed painting, "Abstract No. 1," a still-life that was "part Picasso, part Braque and a lot of Robbins," said Mr. Robbins, 76, now an artist living in Oakbrook, Ill. His latest commission is an outdoor banner for the Smithsonian exhibition -- an 18-by-28-foot paint-by-number lighthouse painted by number this week by two museum employees in a cherry picker.
MR. KLEIN placed his bets instead on the postcard scenes and calendar art of barns in Maine, and fair-faced collies, pigtailed Indian princesses and coolies in China -- the pictures that America saw and smiled at when it closed its eyes to the realities of a nuclear age, urban sprawl and a growing multiculturalism. And masterpieces: though 90 percent of the art was original, reproductions like da Vinci's "Last Supper" were best-sellers.
"Once we'd launched, we were besieged with requests from customers," Mr. Robbins said. "We took our lead from the letters from customers. We were getting our research right from the horse's mouth."
By 1953, 30 companies were manufacturing paint-by-number sets, which typically sold for $2.50, with palettes that included up to 90 colors. Art departments modeled on cartoon animation units at studios like Disney specialized in subjects like pets or religious studies, generating thousands of images. Sales for the industry that year topped $80 million.
"Actors act in plays written by somebody else," Mr. Robbins said. "Singers cover songs. This is just an artistic version of singalong."
What made paint-by-number painting so popular?
"You didn't have to make any decisions, about what the colors should be or what to paint," said Mr. Speegle, who, despite his impressive holdings, has never tried his hand at one. "It was relaxing. Then you could frame it and hang it on your wall and look at it." Mr. Speegle was standing next to an "out of control kitty," as he described a small animal portrait, expressionistically executed by someone who clearly had trouble relaxing.
The prevailing wisdom of the postwar period was that art enhanced the quality of life.
"An artistic home means more enjoyable living," wrote Janet K. Smith in 1949 in the Journal of Home Economics.
Even the White House, during Eisenhower's administration, installed a gallery of paint-by-number paintings in the West Wing, in 1954.
It included pictures completed by Nelson Rockefeller, Ethel Merman and J. Edgar Hoover (a prim Swiss village, blocked in with a marksman's precision).
Paint-by-number paintings betrayed America's belief that the production of art could be domesticated like anything else -- from a paper-trained puppy to the perfect lawn.
The paintings, entered in local art contests, took prizes, which sent critics into full howl.
"Why were they so afraid of a housewife who picked up a paintbrush for the first time?" Mr. Bird asked. "One thing you have to know about it -- it's not art."
June Mersky, a Boston collector, who also lent pieces to the Smithsonian show, would disagree.
"They're folk art," said Ms. Mersky, who is down to 650 paintings (she just sold 50). "They're not cookie-cutter. People did artistically what they wanted with them. It was tedious, done by hand, not machine."
Unlike Mr. Speegle, who was bequeathed his first big batch by another collector, and who appears to have adopted the attitude that the rest slipped into the house one day when he forgot to lock the door, Ms. Mersky loves her paint-by-number paintings.
"They're my gems; I adore them," she said, though she added, "My husband's ready to sell the house just to get rid of them." Her favorite is a self-portrait by Madame Vigee-Lebrun. The "other one" hangs in the Louvre. She also has two Maillols that "would hold up in a mansion as the real thing," she said -- an interesting thought.
Ms. Mersky has painted by number herself.
"A little cabin in the woods," she recalled. "I think I did a good job on it. I was 10."
The hobby and its by-products, in fact, bring out a generation of memories for those who grew up in the 1950's, which lends a powerful appeal to them as collectibles.
Dr. Larry Rubin, a psychologist in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., decorated the waiting room of his office with his collection. Dr. Rubin owns 250.
"I'm a small-time collector," he said.
For Dr. Rubin's patients, the paintings are picture windows into the past.
"People started offering fascinating tidbits about themselves, or their families," he recalled, "insights that I don't think I could have gotten so easily in therapy -- tearful reminiscences about watching their fathers doing these, or the family at Christmastime."
Though the kits are still produced, by the late 1950's the bloom was off the rose -- all 10 carefully parceled colors of it. 
"Television displaced paint-by-number as the visual experience in the home," Mr. Bird said. 
Mr. Speegle, standing by a wall of "Oriental" themes at the foot of his Brooklyn stairway, said he thought that people were fond of paint-by-number paintings as faded emblems of a pre-ironic America.
What was naive art is now deadpan collecting. Mr. Speegle's curios include a bounced check written by Courtney Love; a pair of unworn, monogrammed pajamas tailored for Ray Bolger; a stuffed cat curled on a pillow by a fireplace; and a tennis shoe signed by Andy Warhol. The artist -- deadpan's patron saint -- also did a series of paint-by-number paintings in the 1960's: the numbers were placed over the paint.
Mr. Speegle, a recovering pack rat, who says he no longer buys, still checks in with eBay online for paintings. The heydays of thrift-shop shopping and flea-marketing are largely over. It is a field still finding its criteria -- some pay for precision, others for painterly license -- but prices, which vary wildly, usually stay below $100.
There are rarities, too, like unpainted canvases or unused boxed sets, and there are paintings that remain rumors.
Mr. Speegle has a grail -- the queen of England, Elizabeth II, produced by Palmer in 1953 as an export for Canada.
"I've only ever seen it in pictures," he said. 
How high would he go? Five hundred?
"Oh good God no," Mr. Speegle exclaimed nervously. "That's a lot of money. I'm not that interested in them." The vista up the stairs was painted by number as far as the eye could see.
"Maybe 200 -- at the most," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: KEEPING AMERICA SAFE FOR ART -- J. Edgar Hoover, former director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, left, painted a Swiss village by number, right. It hung in the White House outside the Cabinet Room during Eisenhower's administration, with paint-by-number paintings by Nelson Rockefeller, Ethel Merman and others. (Princeton Architectural Press; inset left, Neal Boenzi/The New York Times); DIGITAL IMAGING -- Unframed paint-by-number wallpaper in a hallway of Trey Speegle's Brooklyn house, above. Below, Dr. Larry Rubin, a Florida psychologist, says his patients respond when they see his collection. (Andrew Itkoff for The New York Times); MUSEUM QUALITY -- Trey Speegle's stairway, left, is an art-historical ascent into paint-by-number heaven, Mona Lisa at the top. Above, nudes in the bathroom.; COMIC -- Mr. Speegle's Pop parlor, above, includes a portrait of Blondie and Dagwood by Suzanne Mallouk. Below, his basement gallery: dogs and cats. (Photographs by Antoine Bootz for The New York Times)(pg. F7); NESTING BY NUMBERS -- Trey Speegle, above, at home in Brooklyn, has 500 paint-by-number paintings. June Mersky, left, is a Boston collector who owns 650. Dan Robbins, who helped start the industry, credits Leonardo da Vinci with having the idea first. (Above, illustration by Antoine Bootz for The New York Times; top left, Princeton Architectural Press); POP CULTURED -- Warhol's 1962 homage to paint-by-number, "Do-It-Yourself (Landscape)," left. (Jared Leeds for The New York Times)(pg. F1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PAINTING (90%); WRITERS (90%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); HISTORY (89%); SUBURBS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); DANCERS (71%); CATS (70%); RELIGION (68%) ART 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN HISTORY (59%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%) NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN HISTORY 

PERSON: HAMILTON, WILLIAM L 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); HOLY SEE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2001 



140 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 2; Circuits; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1558 words

HEADLINE: In the Storage Race, Will Consumers Win? 

BYLINE:  By MICHEL MARRIOTT 

 BODY:
CRADLED in a hand, the shiny disc, encased in a sliver of clear plastic roughly the size of a half-dollar, suggests an artifact left behind by some flying saucer.
 But the disc is the chief product of a two-year-old company called DataPlay, based in Boulder, Colo. The optical discs, known as DataPlay digital media, can store up to 500 megabytes of data, almost as much as a standard compact disc. The company plans to start selling them later this year for about $10 apiece. It hopes that the discs will become more commonplace than CD's, finding their way into an ever-expanding world of digital music players, digital cameras and camcorders, personal organizers, e-book readers and the like. 
 There is just one problem. A DataPlay disc can be read only by a device that has a special DataPlay reader. And a DataPlay reader cannot read any other kind of media. 
With the introduction of DataPlay discs, yet another innovation in digital storage that its makers say will make practically everything that came before it obsolete, the types of storage consumers may turn to for digital music, pictures, video, games and data grows ever more crowded and confusing. 
Consumers already face a maddening array of removable storage products. They come in different shapes, sizes and capacities, like Compact Flash; SmartMedia; Sony Memory Stick and MiniDisc; Iomega's Zip, Jaz and Pocket Zip; CD-ROM; CD-R; CD-RW; DVD-RAM; DVD-R; DVD-RW; the I.B.M. Microdrive; the Imation SuperDisk; and a range of tape-based systems with very high capacity.
Some of these products spin; others are solid state. Some use magnetic technology; others are optical. They have a wide range of prices, although, as with computer products in general, prices are falling. And like the DataPlay disc, they are largely incompatible with one another.
While some of these products are more popular than others, many experts say that there is no clear winner yet in this crowded field of removable storage formats. But the marketplace will not long tolerate such a wide offering digital storage products. 
There has to be a shakeout, analysts say. That could mean that the $1,000 digital camera that saves its high-resolution pictures on one type of storage medium today may be useless tomorrow if the storage medium becomes outmoded and is replaced by something the camera was never designed to use. Remember Sony's Betamax videotapes and players? 
"Clearly, one, maybe two formats will have to remain, but right now it's hard to say which is going to be the right format," said Bruce Kasrel, a senior analyst for media and entertainment at Forrester Research, a group in Cambridge, Mass., that analyzes the future of technologies. "Eventually one will bubble up that will have the price and performance and licensing strategy that can get them in all kinds of devices." 
In terms of universality, there is not yet a clear successor to the 3 1/2-inch diskette, the creaky but dependable mainstay of storage media designed for personal computers. For well over a decade, practically every laptop and personal computer has come equipped with a slot that accepted the low-cost diskette, making it easy to exchange information between computers, although slowly and, at only 1.44 megabytes per disk, rather tediously.
Douglas R. Kraul, the chief technology officer for SmartDisk, a company that makes adaptive devices that help consumers use lots of different kinds of storage media, said that a dominant storage technology usually arose because there were one or two high-volume applications. In the case of the 3 1/2-inch diskette, the decision by computer makers to include 3 1/2-inch drives in their machines in the late 1980's was crucial. When home and office computer sales soared in the 1990's, 3 1/2-inch diskettes became almost as common as wire clothes hangers. 
But executives at Sony Electronics are not waiting for such high-volume applications to arise. Rather, they are spreading their removable storage product, called Memory Stick, across many applications. 
In the nearly two years since Memory Stick was created, Sony has made the product essential to linking a broad family of its devices together, from its VAIO desktop and laptop computers, to its Clie hand-held organizers, camcorders, portable music players and in-dash car navigation systems. Even its newest Aibo robot dog uses Memory Stick.
Sony officials say that Sony has 48 types of products on the market that use Memory Stick and has sold nine million products that have Memory Stick slots in them.
Yet outside the Sony world, Memory Sticks are anything but ubiquitous. Even though Sony said it would encourage other companies to build devices using the technology, few such products have been released. 
Memory Stick is only one format for solid-state flash memory; others include SDMI Secure Digital Cards, MultiMediaCards and SmartMedia Cards. Flash memory is used in the widest variety of portable digital devices, including cameras, audio players, cellular telephones and hand-held computers. 
Dr. Eli Harari, president and chief executive of SanDisk Corporation, a major maker of flash memory cards in Sunnyvale, Calif., said that as portable digital devices continued to be developed and to proliferate, the future for portable data storage media companies like his could not be anything but bright. 
"The desktop personal computer market is very mature," Dr. Harari said, while the market for portable digital devices is still growing.
The benefit to consumers, he said, is that as makers of storage media strive to meet an explosive demand, prices will fall. That is especially significant, he said, for flash memory, which has cost more per megabyte than spinning optical discs, like the much larger, and more familiar, five-inch recordable CD's and DVD's. 
A re-writable DVD-RAM, for instance, can easily hold 5,200 megabytes of digital information for little more than $30, while a CompactFlash card with about a tenth the capacity costs about $1,000. 
With the economies of scale and improved manufacturing techniques, flash memory is destined to drop steadily in price, Dr. Harari said. Like the microprocessors at the heart of personal computers, flash memory is also subject to Moore's law, experts say. That means that flash memory's capacity should double about every 18 months. 
Examples of that are already beginning to be seen, Dr. Harari said. A 64-megabyte CompactFlash card that sold for $149 a year ago is showing up in some stores for about $100. Dr. Harari said he was sure that in the next several years, similar memory cards would cost no more than $20. 
Such cost reductions in storage media will spur an explosive growth in devices like portable audio players, he said. Today's music players commonly cost $200 to $300, and half to a third of that cost is attributed to the price of the flash memory. 
Some experts contend that flash memory and other related chip-based media have much in their favor. One of their chief advantages is that they do not require, as DataPlay discs do, a relatively costly player that must be installed in a device so the disc can be read.
Because flash memory does not require moving parts to be read, some experts say they believe that flash will win the race for a universal storage medium. 
But even with flash memory, the types and formats still confuse many consumers, some managers of consumer electronics stores said in recent interviews. Sandisk alone makes PCMCIA FlashDisks, CompactFlash Disks, MultiMedia Cards, Secure Digital cards and more.
"All the flash stuff is all the same stuff, just repackaged," said Steve Volk, the founder and chief executive of DataPlay, who recently announced that he had struck deals with major record companies to also sell recorded music on the DataPlay disc. "None of the flash stuff is suitable for pre-recorded content." 
But critics of optical data storage media like DataPlay's and all recordable CD's and DVD's say that because such media must spin at high speeds, they are more prone to skipping and other mechanical problems. They also consume more power, which reduces battery life. 
Optical-based storage is also, some critics say, much more costly for device makers because they must build in the mechanical means to play and read the discs. (The same is true, Dr. Harari said, for any mechanical shortage device, like the I.B.M. Microdrive, which is a tiny hard drive.) 
Before a DataPlay disc can work, a device must be built with a DataPlay micro-optical engine, which is about the size of a matchbox. Such an engine, said Mr. Kasrel, of Forrester Research, adds to the cost, size and complexity of the device. Solid-state memory cards have no moving parts, and none are required to read them. 
In the end, Mr. Kasrel said, increasing capacity is not going to mean very much to many consumers if the price of storage does not fall drastically as well.
For most consumers, he said, simply getting more digital storage is much like going from a few television channels to hundreds but still not being able to find anything interesting to watch. 
What the makers of removable storage devices really need to be able to do, he said, "is to have something very small, with lots of memory, that is so cheap that you could almost throw it away." 
That, even the most ardent believers in Moore's law agree, may take awhile. 

CORRECTION-DATE: April 6, 2001

 CORRECTION:
A chart in Circuits yesterday about removable data storage products for home computers and other electronic devices misstated the capacity of one product, DVD-RAM discs. They can hold 9.4 billion bytes of data each, not 9.4 million.
A chart in Circuits on April 5 about removable data storage products gave an incomplete list of the device types that can use the Microdrive, a miniature hard drive made by International Business Machines. In addition to portable music players and desktop, laptop and hand-held computers, they include digital still cameras.

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photographs by Associated Press stadium and Tony Cenicola for The New York Times; Illustration by Andy Chen/The New York Times) Chart: "Disks and Sticks"Removable storage products come in many types and sizes, for use in a variety of devices. Here's a comparison of many of the common formats. FORMAT: MAGNETIC DisketteCAPACITY: 1.44 MBAPPROX. PRICE: 40 cents/diskPRIMARY MANUFACTURER: Various Zip diskCAPACITY: 100 MB/250 MBAPPROX. PRICE: $10/$15PRIMARY MANUFACTURER: Iomega Jaz diskCAPACITY: 2 GBAPPROX. PRICE: $115/diskPRIMARY MANUFACTURER: Iomega Pocket zipCAPACITY: 40 MB/100 MBAPPROX. PRICE: $15/disk -- $15/diskPRIMARY MANUFACTURER: Iomega MicrodriveCAPACITY: 340 MBAPPROX. PRICE: $500PRIMARY MANUFACTURER: I.B.M. Super DiskCAPACITY: 120 MB/240 MB*APPROX. PRICE: $10/$12PRIMARY MANUFACTURER: Imation FORMAT: OPTICAL CD-RCAPACITY: 650-700 MBAPPROX. PRICE: 80 cents/discPRIMARY MANUFACTURER: Various CD-RWCAPACITY: 650 MBAPPROX. PRICE: $1.30/discPRIMARY MANUFACTURER: Various DVD-RAMCAPACITY: 9.4 MB*APPROX. PRICE: N.A.PRIMARY MANUFACTURER: Various DVD-RWCAPACITY: 4.7GBAPPROX. PRICE: $20PRIMARY MANUFACTURER: Various DataPlayCAPACITY: 500 MB*APPROX. PRICE: $10PRIMARY MANUFACTURER: DataPlay FORMAT: SOLID STATE Memory StickCAPACITY: 8 to 128 MBAPPROX. PRICE: $30-$280PRIMARY MANUFACTURER: Sony SmartMediaCAPACITY: 8 to 128 MBAPPROX. PRICE: $23-$170PRIMARY MANUFACTURER: Various Compact FlashCAPACITY: 8 to 00 MBAPPROX. PRICE: $35-$735PRIMARY MANUFACTURER: Various MultiMediaCardCAPACITY: 8 to 64 MBAPPROX. PRICE: $35-$100PRIMARY MANUFACTURER: Various PC card Type IICAPACITY: 8 to 880 MBAPPROX. PRICE: $50-$2,760PRIMARY MANUFACTURER: Various(pg. G8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (90%); CD & DVD DRIVES (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); DATA STORAGE DEVICES (89%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (89%); DIGITAL RECORDERS (89%); RECORD INDUSTRY (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); MAGNETIC & OPTICAL MEDIA MFG (76%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (74%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (71%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (71%); FLOPPY DRIVES (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (50%) RECORDING EQUIPMENT 

COMPANY: FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (50%)

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (50%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (50%) SIC3631 HOUSEHOLD COOKING APPLIANCES; 

PERSON: MARRIOTT, MICHEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2001 



141 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: Tokyo Fails to Come Up With a Plan on Bank Crisis 

BYLINE:  By STEPHANIE STROM 

DATELINE: TOKYO, April 4 

 BODY:
Disappointing widespread expectations, Japan's coalition government failed to produce a plan today to address lingering problems in the banking system and give a lift to the economy, which is sliding toward recession.
 "We could not reach agreement on some issues," said Taro Aso, the minister in charge of economic and fiscal policy. 
 The main snag involved a proposal to set up a fund to buy some of the 39 trillion yen ($311 billion) in stocks held by Japanese banks. The plan, meant to spare the banks further losses on their stock portfolios without having the shares dumped on the open market and hammering prices, has drawn fire from some politicians, who oppose using public money to underpin stock prices. 
The government did manage to push through one component of the hoped-for package today, perhaps in response to pressure from the United States, which is newly concerned about the weight of nonperforming loans hanging over the banks.
Mr. Aso said that within two years Japan's 16 major banks would be required to clear 12.7 trillion yen of their worst loans from their books -- those to borrowers in bankruptcy proceedings or on the verge of insolvency. Banks in Japan have been notoriously slow to write off bad loans, even when there is little or no chance they will be repaid.
But the categories of loans covered by the measure accounted for only about one-third of the bad loans reported by the government as of last September. The measure ignores the much larger category called gray loans, which (on paper, at least) are somewhat less severely troubled, though the debts of bankrupt borrowers like Sogo and Tokyo Life Insurance are included.
"Nonetheless, it's better than nothing," said Yasuhisa Shiozaki, a member of Parliament and former Bank of Japan official. "And setting a time frame for disposal of these loans is a big step forward."
Political considerations were clearly at work. Regional banks are exempted from the write-off requirements, a concession to the small and midsize companies that borrow from them. Applying the measure to regional banks "would have had a very negative effect on the small businesses in local areas, which are big political supporters," said Masaaki Kanno, chief economist at J. P. Morgan in Tokyo. "So they limited it to the big banks."
Though it is labeled an emergency rescue plan for the gasping economy, the main purpose of the package of proposals debated by the governing coalition is to bandage the banking sector before September, when banks' books will have to reflect the true market value of their stock portfolios for the first time. 
Banks carried on their balance sheets holdings of stock that they valued at 39.1 trillion yen at the end of December, and Japanese regulators allow them to count 45 percent of that figure in their capital bases, which determine how much they may lend. That arrangement can leave the banks' financial stability at the market's mercy. So when the Nikkei 225 index slumped by 13 percent earlier this year (it has since retraced most of the loss), the government started hunting for a way to get the shares off the banks' books before September.
The plan on the table, creating a fund to buy the shares with money supplied by the banks and a government guarantee against losses, has proved highly controversial. Politicians said today that Shizuka Kamei, the ruling party's policy chief, is pushing for passage of the plan before the party chooses a new president to replace Prime Minister Yoshiro Mori, a move expected later this month or early in May. The ruling party's president automatically becomes prime minister.
But Hakuo Yanagisawa, the financial services minister and a frustrated reformer, has resisted. He is concerned about committing public money to the fund, and he worries that it may become another vehicle for "price-keeping operations," in which the government uses public entities to prop up the stock market. Unlike South Korea, which announced a plan today to pour public pension money into its stock market, the Japanese government officially swore off such operations a few years ago, though there are signs that it has quietly resumed the habit.
Anxious to put a lid on Japan's mounting public debt, the Ministry of Finance is loath to agree either to cut taxes or to supply tax money to the stock-purchase program. And the Ministry of Economy, Industry and Trade, now official Japan's leading advocate of far-reaching corporate restructuring, worries that progress will be impeded if a government-run fund owns 2 to 3 percent of all stocks. 
The ministries and Mr. Yanagisawa want to hold off discussing the stock fund plan until summer. They managed to postpone a decision for the moment. But maybe not much longer: Mr. Shiozaki, who also wants to move slowly, thinks it may be adopted as soon as Friday.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Taro Aso, the minister in charge of economic and fiscal policy. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TRENDS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (66%); LIFE INSURANCE (50%) BANKS AND BANKING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (53%)

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (53%)

PERSON: TARO ASO (88%) STROM, STEPHANIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (91%) JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (79%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2001 



142 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 333 words

HEADLINE: Indexes Drop in Service Sector 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 4 

 BODY:
A gauge of business excluding manufacturers fell in March to the second-lowest level on record, and a measure of employment other than at factories contracted for the first time since the index began, an industry group said today.
 The group, the National Association of Purchasing Management, said its nonmanufacturing business index fell to 50.3 last month from 51.7 in February. In January, the index of the service sector sank to 50.1, the lowest since it was started in July 1997 and close to the threshold between growth and decline. 
 The report "does raise all sorts of warning flags" and provides evidence that the Labor Department's report on Friday on March employment will indicate a slower pace of job growth, said Steven A. Wood, chief economist at FinancialOxygen, an information service in Walnut Creek, Calif. Even so, he and other economists cautioned that the report covered too few years to be fully reliable.
The employment level index fell to 49.4 in March from 50.3 in February. It was the first time the jobs reading fell below 50. Readings higher than 50 suggest growth. Lower readings indicate contraction.
There were positive signs. The index of new orders rose to 52.2 in March from 51.3 in February. The group's prices-paid index, a measure of costs for purchased materials and services, fell to 59.5 in March from 60.5 in February.
But the index measuring new export orders dropped to 49.5 in March from 53.5 in February.
And while the survey showed that inventories decreased for a fifth consecutive month, it also found that a rising number of purchasing executives thought inventories were still too high. That measure rose to 69 from 65 in February, posing a risk of fewer orders to manufacturers.
The survey is a companion report to the purchasing managers' factory index, which has shown manufacturing in decline for eight months. Today's report gathered data from about 350 executives in more than 60 kinds of enterprises including utilities, law firms and government. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW ORDERS (90%); INVENTORIES (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); LEGAL SERVICES (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); EXPORT TRADE (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LABOR 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (84%) NATIONAL ASSN OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (55%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2001 



143 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 37 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: COMMODITIES 

 BODY:
 GASOLINE RISES. Gasoline climbed after a large drop in supplies raised concern that inventories would be tight this summer. In New York, gasoline for May delivery rose 3.98 cents, or 4.3 percent, to 97.15 cents a gallon.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks gasoline prices (near-month contract), since October 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also lists the 52-week highs and lows of selected commodities, along with their closes yesterday and their changes, yesterday, year to date, and over the past 52 weeks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); FUTURES (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (85%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; INVENTORIES (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); SHORTAGES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2001 



144 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1598 words

HEADLINE: Cattlemen In Lebanon Miss Lucre Of Hashish 

BYLINE:  By NEIL MacFARQUHAR 

DATELINE: BAALBEK, Lebanon 

 BODY:
Hussein Jaafar, former opium poppy farmer turned dairyman, struggles to eke out a living from a half-dozen Pennsylvania milking cows while fervently wishing day and night for just one thing.
 He longs to grow cannabis, the crop from which hashish is derived, again. 
 "Let them come and take their cows back wherever they came from," said Mr. Jaafar, a thin man whose furrowed brow and receding black hair makes him seem older than his 32 years. "I will even forgive them my down payment. I swear if the government would let me grow just 500 square meters of hashish, I would sell them." 
These are difficult days in the Bekaa region of Lebanon, the season when farmers in the once lawless valley seeded their fields with cannabis and opium poppies, now banned. Given the deepening economic problems, farmers throughout the region are itching to resurrect their outlaw traditions.
The illicit crops, almost literally, made money grow on trees. Farmers had only to toss out some seeds, sprinkle a little water around if needed and, without ever bothering to apply fertilizer or pesticides, sit back and watch their plants grow seven and eight feet tall. After the harvest, they could walk to the edge of their fields to collect wads of dollars from the brokers.
Government promises to find a good substitute have so far proved barren. Nothing, it seems, compares to the ease and profitability of illicit crops.
The American dairy cows, specifically Holsteins, wandered into this quandary. They have been introduced slowly over the last four years under a United States agricultural loan program.
The results are somewhat mixed, with perhaps the biggest hurdle being the mental adjustment of the farmers. Cannabis fields can be ignored, but cows must be birthed, fed, nurtured and milked.
"Farmers here suddenly find themselves taking care of living souls who need attention every day," said Mahmoud Dally, an agricultural engineer working in the program. "Before they were just planting hashish or poppies and they didn't even have to think about it."
The cows have also become the hapless agents of one of the region's quiet but intense political rivalries, that between the United States and Iran. The Iranians back Hezbollah, or the Party of God, the guerrilla movement that has flourished as a militant political party partly by championing the concerns of the impoverished, like Lebanon's long-neglected farmers.
Hezbollah's television station, Al Manar, recently ran a segment suggesting that the United States was dumping inferior cows, and pictures of sick American cows are a staple of local press coverage.
"We hear a lot of complaints from the farmers, mainly that the American cows are not acclimatizing and not producing milk at the promised level," said Muhammad al-Khansa, the director of an experimental farm in Baalbek set up by the Jihad for Construction, Hezbollah's public works arm. "Many people say that the Americans would obviously not send their best cows to Lebanon."
Those on the American side are quick to dismiss the Jihad farm outreach program. They also point out that Hezbollah is on the United States government's list of terrorist organizations.
"They help a limited number of farmers who are their political supporters," said Marwan Sidani, the director of the dairy improvement program, serving as the liaison between the Agriculture Ministry and the United States Agency for International Development. "All they really want to do is to show that the U.S. cows are no good."
The Bekaa region's drug-growing tradition stretches back at least to the start of last century, when Lebanon's Ottoman overlords, themselves not immune to the allure of hashish, encouraged its cultivation.
Before Lebanon's civil war erupted in 1975, an effort was made to supplant the cannabis with sunflowers. To collect the offered subsidies, many farmers circled their drug fields with a few rings of sunflowers.
Fayrouz, a famous Lebanese diva, celebrated that particular endeavor in a 1973 musical. The lyrics went in part: "I'm being persecuted by the government. I planted sunflowers, which grew into cannabis."
Farmers still relish the lore of it all. They talk of the piles of dollars or the time when some Americans built a temporary runway in the valley, landing single-engine planes crammed with Smith & Wesson revolvers and leaving laden with hashish.
The civil war proved something of a golden age for illicit crops. Hashish and the newly introduced opium poppy melded well with other dubious activities like training militias, smuggling low-cost electronic devices into Syria and, occasionally, hiding kidnapped Westerners.
By the end of the war in 1990, an estimated 75,000 acres, or one-third of the valley's arable land, was devoted to drugs. Cannabis and opium growing earned the Bekaa farmers roughly $80 million a year, or some $1,500 per capita, according to United Nations estimates.
By 1994 it was all gone. The Lebanese and Syrian governments decided after the war that if they could get off one American blacklist, it was the drug production list.
But frustration set in quickly, because none of the promised crop replacements proved viable.
"The farmers could sell a kilo" -- 2.2 pounds -- "of hashish for $300 cash," Mr. Sidani said. "How can you compare it to a kilo of potatoes for 20 cents?"
Enter the American dairy cow. The inspiration was twofold. One, Lebanon imports up to $300 million annually in meat and dairy products, so any local production would reduce import bills. Two, given the farmers' increasing poverty, the cows might at least help feed their families.
Starting in 1997, Lebanon paid $6 million for 3,000 American dairy cows delivered over four years to 1,000 farmers, a third of them in the Bekaa. Last year the program was extended for three years, with 5,000 cows coming for $10 million. The American government has chipped in $1 million so far for things like teaching farmers the basics of feeding and milking.
Problems are manifold. Feed, for example, is largely imported and expensive, so farmers give the cows hay. That lowers milk production, and the farmers blame the cows. This year has been particularly bad for milk prices -- the consumption of meat and dairy products has fallen 30 percent because of the worldwide scares over various bovine diseases.
Mr. Jaafar, the erstwhile hashish farmer, notes that he used to spend almost no time in his five acres and still earned $30,000 a year, enough to build a sturdy two-bedroom house, drive a car and smoke Marlboros. Now he drives a school bus in the morning and spends the rest of the time with his cows. He has forsaken Marlboros and cannot afford the $400 he needs to install tiles over the raw cement floors of his home.
"When I got the first cow, I wasn't terribly happy with the idea of having a cow, but I thought at least I could live off it," he said.
Burglaries have picked up, and someone killed a gas station attendant a few weeks ago in an armed robbery, the first in memory.
Mr. Jaafar's neighbor Moheeb Lakis points out that in the hashish days the farmers had never heard of secondhand clothes. "Now everybody is buying secondhand clothes," he said, "no more Armani and Versace."
A main complaint about the United States program is that the cows cost too much. Although American officials say the $1,900 price tag per cow represents no profit, the Lebanese believe that the United States is being miserly, given that Washington demanded that the drug cultivation be eradicated.
"The United States program is too small, too diffuse, too expensive and needs better auxiliary services like vets," said Ali Osseiran, a member of Parliament and himself a farmer.
Enter the Iranian government. An Iranian delegation showed up in Beirut last month offering $50 million in farm aid, including a farm credit program, technicians to train the Lebanese in fish farming, beekeeping and improved mechanization, and food processing factories. Plus they have cows at $1,000 a head.
"It is a tempting proposal," said Ali Abdullah, the new agriculture minister. "I wish all nations would compete to help Lebanese farmers, not just the Americans and Iranians." Officials on the American side are dismissive, muttering darkly that Iranian cows carry Rift Valley fever and produce far less milk.
Farmers give both sides average marks. One of his American cows died, Mr. Jaafar noted. On the other hand, an engineer from the Hezbollah arm that the Iranians work through came and told him his cow shed needed better ventilation and a water trough.
"I told him I couldn't afford it, so if he wanted to do it, God bless him," Mr. Jaafar said, "But nobody has any money to do anything."
Poverty is driving many back to cultivating drugs. Some limit it to garden plots, telling the police they are growing canary food to make the birds sing better. Last year the army, preoccupied with the Israeli withdrawal from south Lebanon, skipped the eradication campaign.
"This year the farmers won't leave any piece of land free of hashish," said Lt. Michel Chakkour of the Internal Security Forces. Helicopters have been dropping leaflets warning farmers that growing drugs carries a maximum sentence of life at hard labor and a $4,000 fine.
Farmers respond by saying they will plant hashish as soon as the snow melts in the high fields lying hidden behind the foothills.
"If there isn't an alternative crop, then I am going to grow hashish even if the whole government shows up," said one farmer.
"In the days of hashish we were so happy," he said, adding, "I once owned a car, but now, thanks be to God, I have a cow."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Hussein Jaafar, above, tending to one of the Pennsylvania Holsteins he received from an American aid program. Below, an opium poppy harvest in 1985 in the Bekaa, where cannabis for hashish was also grown. (Neil MacFarquhar/The New York Times); (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CANNABIS (92%); DAIRY FARMING (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); OPIUM (90%); HEZBOLLAH (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); FERTILIZERS (73%); PESTICIDES (73%); AGRICULTURAL LENDING (73%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (72%); HAIR LOSS (71%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (60%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%) DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; OPIUM; DAIRY PRODUCTS 

PERSON: MACFARQUHAR, NEIL 

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (96%); LEBANON (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%) LEBANON; BEKAA (LEBANON)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2001 



145 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1002 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place; 
Value Investors Warm to Technology Stocks

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM 

 BODY:
You know technology stocks have been hammered when Bruce C. Baughman is buying them.
 "Ordinarily," Mr. Baughman said, "I prefer anvil makers." 
 He was joking, but only slightly. Professional value investors like Mr. Baughman, who manages money for the San Mateo, Calif., mutual fund giant Franklin Templeton, hunt for small companies whose stocks are selling at bargain prices. They tend to prefer tangible assets, which are priced to move, over companies long on concepts, pipe dreams and hope. During the height of the bull market, value fund managers largely shunned technology stocks and were punished by both the market and by investors who withdrew billions of dollars. 
Now, there are signs that technology stocks are re-emerging on the radar of the market's bottom feeders. That could provide a modest glimmer of hope for the embattled sector, though value investors are sticking at least initially to stocks with an industrial bent, like semiconductor and electronic equipment makers.
"Technology in my portfolio might not be as glamorous as it is in somebody else's portfolio," said Mr. Baughman, who recently bought shares of GenRad, a Westford, Mass., maker of electronic testing equipment, and Hutchinson Technology, a company in Hutchinson, Minn., that makes equipment for disk drives. "These are companies that a real techie wouldn't give a second look to."
Shunning technology was about the best bet one could make at the beginning of the year, and that is why value funds, particularly those that favor small companies, have prospered. Of the 31 investment categories and styles tracked by Lipper Inc., a mutual fund tracking firm, only one was profitable in the first quarter: small-cap value funds, which gained a whopping 1.1 percent. 
In times of misery, this is victory.
Now, however, the 67.5 percent decline of the Nasdaq composite index from its March 2000 high has changed some value investors' minds. Many view technology stocks and many other issues as still too expensive. In his annual letter to Berkshire Hathaway shareholders in late February, Warren E. Buffett, the dean of value investing, said there were no bargains in even his own company's portfolio.
But in the first quarter, some value investors began sifting through the wreckage. They are still avoiding concepts, pipe dreams and hope.
"As broken I.P.O.'s, these companies become interesting," said Boniface Zaino, manager of the top-performing $415 million Royce Opportunity fund, up 4.2 percent in the first quarter of this year and a top performer in the category over the last three years. "The growth and the markets are still there, but you can buy them for nothing."
For the most part, his forays into technology have been in semiconductor equipment makers. An old favorite he has returned to is GSI Lumonics, a Canadian manufacturer of laser systems for semiconductors and medical equipment. Mr. Zaino first bought GSI in May 1999 at $4.50 a share and kept buying until it reached $8 that November. By December 1999, the stock, at $11, had become too rich and he started selling, exiting the stock completely when it was trading at $38.50 last July. 
"We got a fair ride," he said. "Then the stock collapsed."
And that gave Mr. Zaino the green light again. He started buying GSI again in January at $9.16 a share and has continued buying as the stock has drifted to around $7 a share. 
"I'd like to buy a little every day at lower prices," he said. 
Mr. Baughman has also been considering adding to the semiconductor equipment makers FSI International and Silicon Valley Group.
"Most of them are pretty cheap nowadays," he said of the group. 
Like his peers, he did well by selling and avoiding technology last year. Mr. Baughman is lead manager of the $1.2 billion Franklin Balance Sheet Investment fund, a small- company value fund that was up 2 percent in the first quarter, and the $120 million Franklin MicroCap Value fund, which gained 16.4 percent. He invests in companies that are trading at no more than 40 percent above their book value -- the value of the company's assets minus its liabilities -- and prefers those, like Hutchinson Technology, trading below book. 
That has not made it easy to invest in technology. At the end of the year, the Balance Sheet fund had just 5 percent in technology stocks.
And even after a 64 percent decline over the last year, a classic growth stock like Oracle trades at about 15 times its book value. 
"Maybe it's not overpriced," Mr. Baughman said. But it is also not close to his radar, which is why he has been sticking to technology's version of anvil makers.
Daniel G. Bandi, who runs National City's Armada Small Cap Value fund, had an even smaller position in technology at the start of 2001 -- about 3 percent. His fund lost a few points in the first quarter but has gained 24 percent in the last 12 months. After selling technology last year, he is buying again, including shares of semiconductor makers like Microsemi, of Santa Ana, Calif., and Fairchild Semiconductor International of South Portland, Me.
"We see semis as a group that rallies early and rallies fast," Mr. Bandi said. "We've been picking away at technology and scaling back all the stuff that helped last year, the consistency bets: defense stocks, property-casualty companies, hospitals, REIT's, and we've trimmed energy a little bit. "
In a market that in many ways is a mirror image of the bull market, the sectors with the most and least appeal have flip-flopped in the last year. James F. Larkins, lead manager of the $180 million Wasatch Small-Cap Value fund, recently bought shares of LTX, a Westwood, Mass., maker of semiconductor testing equipment.
"It's really been in the past week or two that we've gotten interested in tech," Mr. Larkins said. "In early 2000, it was ridiculous, so we moved away from those."
Now "semi-cap equipment companies are interesting," he added. "People will need this equipment regardless of the climate."
If not, the second quarter might be even bleaker than the first.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bruce C. Baughman, who manages money for Franklin Templeton funds, is looking at technology issues. (George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); ELECTRONICS (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); SEMICONDUCTORS (72%); BONDS (72%); LASERS (60%) STOCKS AND BONDS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: LIPPER INC (66%); HUTCHINSON TECHNOLOGY INC (55%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: FRANKLIN TEMPLETON GROUP 

TICKER: HTCH (NASDAQ) (55%); BRK.B (NYSE) (52%); BRK.A (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (66%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (66%); NAICS334419 OTHER ELECTRONIC COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3679 ELECTRONIC COMPONENTS, NEC (55%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (55%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (52%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (52%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (52%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (50%) BAUGHMAN, BRUCE C; HAKIM, DANNY 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2001 



146 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 36 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES 

 BODY:
 EURO GAINS. The euro rose on speculation that the European Central Bank will cut interest rates as soon as next week to increase growth. In New York, the euro settled at 90.20 cents, up from 89.65 cents on Tuesday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks euro to the dollar, since October 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); EURO (90%); INTEREST RATES (87%); TRENDS (84%) CURRENCY; CREDIT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTEREST RATES 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%) EUROPEAN UNION; EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); CANADA (79%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2001 



147 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 588 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Equities Sputter as Concern Continues About Earnings

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL BRICK 

 BODY:
Stocks continued to struggle yesterday after two days of heavy losses as concern about corporate earnings dominated the market.
 The technology sector, the source of several new profit warnings, once again fell sharply after it and the rest of the market made an unsuccessful attempt at a midday rally. Blue chips, however, posted small gains. 
 "You'll see these short snappy rallies," said Bryan Piskorowski, a market analyst at Prudential Securities, adding that the early gains lacked what he called conviction. "We knock them down, we bring them back up again."
The technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index fell 34.20 points, or 2 percent, to 1,638.80, weighed down in part by losses in Intel and Microsoft, which are also among the 30 stocks in the Dow Jones industrial average. But the Dow still managed to gain 29.71 points, or 0.3 percent, to 9,515.42.
The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, meanwhile, fell 3.21 points, or 0.3 percent, to 1,103.25.
Some money managers had hoped the start of a new quarter would foster optimism, but dour earnings forecasts seemed to stand in the way. Of 756 early negative announcements about first-quarter earnings, 62 have been issued since Monday, according to Thomson Financial/ First Call.
"The fear is, why buy a stock when it could make an announcement tomorrow or the day after tomorrow?" said David A. Henwood, chief investment officer at Raymond James & Associates.
Lucent fell $1.10, or 14 percent, to $6.75, even though the company denied rumors that it would seek bankruptcy protection, calling them baseless and irresponsible.
But shares of some other stocks rose despite seemingly negative announcements. Commerce One, which said its quarterly loss would be wider than expected, rose 39 cents, to $6. And Rational Software, which cut financial forecasts, rose 50 cents, to $14.44.
Among other technology stocks, Intel fell $2.38, to $22.63, and Microsoft fell $1.44, to $51.94. Financial stocks also fell, with American Express losing $1.71, to $36.20, and Citigroup dropping $1, to $42.70. Drug stocks and cyclicals, however, posted gains, with Merck rising $1.67, to $74.48, and Caterpillar rising $1.39, to $43.55.
Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, testified before a Senate committee on trade today, and market strategists mined his remarks for clues about his view of the economy and the prospects for further interest-rate cuts. Arthur Hogan, chief market analyst at Jefferies & Company, said the market's midday gains seemed to coincide with some of Mr. Greenspan's more dour statements.
Mickey D. Levy, chief economist at Bank of America, said stock investors seemed to be taking additional interest-rate cuts for granted and were focusing their attentions on corporate profits.
 --------------------

Treasury Prices Mixed
 (By Bloomberg News) -- Treasury prices were mixed yesterday as two of the three major United States stock gauges fell.
"While the bond market is taking its lead from the equity market, it's becoming desensitized" to stocks that fall one day and rise the next, said James Caron, a fixed-income strategist at Merrill Lynch.
"Bonds can only react so much," he added, "since they have priced in a lot of bad news already."
The price of 10-year Treasury note was slightly higher, rising 1/32, to 100 21/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, closed at 4.91, slightly below Tuesday's 4.92.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond fell 4/32, to 98 17/32. The bond's yield, rose to 5.48 from 5.47 on Tuesday.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Freddie Mac Yields"Average for Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. participation certificates, plotted weekly. Graph tracks 15-year and 30-year yields since December.(Source: F.H.L.M.C.) Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); COMPANY EARNINGS (93%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (79%); PROFIT WARNINGS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); INTEREST RATES (60%) STOCKS AND BONDS; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX 

COMPANY: THOMSON FINANCIAL (67%); JEFFERIES & CO INC (61%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); INTEL CORP (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%); RAYMOND JAMES & ASSOCIATES INC (54%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); AXP (NYSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (53%) BRICK, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2001 



148 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 617 words

HEADLINE: Air Discounts Are Plentiful As Businesses Trim Travel 

BYLINE:  By JANE L. LEVERE 

 BODY:
Northwest Airlines put summer travel on sale early this year, and industry analysts expect discounting to multiply as airlines scramble for bookings by leisure travelers to make up for sagging corporate sales.
 The 40 percent discount off advance-purchase fares on routes throughout North America, Europe and Asia, announced by Northwest in mid-March, is being matched by most major carriers on substantial parts of their routes. Northwest, the fourth-largest airline in the United States, initially planned to end the sale on March 30, but last week extended it to tickets sold through April 13, as did its competitors. 
 Samuel C. Buttrick, who follows the airline industry for UBS Warburg, said that Northwest's comparable sale last year "was launched later, in mid-April, and had a shorter selling period." 
For the year through March, he said, airlines in the United States offered discount fare promotions on 54 days; in the similar period last year, they offered such discounts on only 37 days.
"Having more days on sale this year than last is reflective that the industry has to work harder to sell to leisure consumers," Mr. Buttrick said. "Northwest's is the first sale for summer travel, but it will not be the last."
According to Michael J. Linenberg, airline analyst for Merrill Lynch, passenger revenue on domestic flights was flat in February compared with February 2000, when it rose almost 7 percent.
"The airlines have not witnessed revenue growth this anemic since the December 1998 quarter, when concerns about the economy and stock market weakness led to corporate and leisure travel cutbacks," Mr. Linenberg said.
Travel budgets are an "easy target" for companies aiming to cut costs, Mr. Linenberg said, adding that the stock market decline had erased over $3 trillion of household net worth.
"Both of these should translate into lower demand for air travel," he said.
Northwest's sale includes discounts as low as $49 one-way for one or two children ages 2 to 17. In most cases, the discount fares require an overnight Saturday stay. Travel in North America must be completed by Sept. 13, while trips to Europe must end by June 15, and trips to Asia by June 30. Tickets are not refundable.
All major carriers except Alaska Airlines, a unit of the Alaska Air Group, matched Northwest's discounts, in most cases in a large number of markets, particularly those where they compete directly with Northwest.
According to Northwest officials, this is the fourth time in four years that the airline has offered promotional fares in the early spring for family travel in the summer. "The discounts are a little steeper than last year's discounts," said Dennis Mollura, a Northwest spokesman. "But they're on a higher-priced ticket, so the ticket cost is about the same."
Besides the economy, worries in Europe about the epidemic of foot-and-mouth disease should add up to more travel discounts on overseas trips, said William A. Maloney, executive vice president and chief operating officer of the American Society of Travel Agents.
"Those bookings are turning up soft," Mr. Maloney said. "Whenever there's a natural disaster, Americans stop traveling. They're not good at geography or going to foreign places."
Mr. Linenberg warned, however, that discounts offered to vacation travelers will probably not be as steep as those offered in the early 1990's, when the airline industry was hit hard by recession.
"Revenue management is much more sophisticated now than it was 10 years ago," Mr. Linenberg said. "And airlines have another way to distribute tickets than they did in the early 1990's, the Internet. This will allow the industry to do a better job of moving its distressed inventory." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); LEISURE TRAVEL (90%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); TRAVEL AGENTS (89%); AIR FARES (78%); TICKET SALES (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); FAMILY TRAVEL (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (73%); BUDGETS (70%); CHILDREN (62%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); DISCOUNT SELLING 

COMPANY: NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (92%); UBS INVESTMENT BANK (56%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (54%); ALASKA AIR GROUP INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTHWEST AIRLINES 

TICKER: ALK (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (92%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%) SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION; 

PERSON: LEVERE, JANE L 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (92%) EUROPE (94%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (90%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (58%) EUROPE; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2001 



149 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: Metro Matters; 
Danger Signs Amid Progress For Children

BYLINE:  By JOYCE PURNICK 

 BODY:
GERARD McCAFFERY, who runs a nonprofit child care agency, has seen three of his caseworkers leave for similar but higher-paying jobs with the city in the last few months. At least a third of his 79 caseworkers move on and out every six months, and while he'd like to pay them more, his publicly financed budget is only one-tenth of 1 percent higher than it was seven years ago.
 "We are not in any way competitive, and it's extremely difficult work," explained Mr. McCaffery, chief executive of the Seamen's Society for Children and Families on Staten Island. "The level of funding we receive from the state just doesn't allow us to pay more. If I did, I would have to take it from somewhere else, and I have already squeezed every drop of blood I can." 
 He is not alone. Other nonprofit agencies in New York, also known as contract agencies, are in the same fix. And that could spell trouble for one of the signal achievements of the Giuliani administration -- its continuing effort to improve children's services.
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani created the Administration for Children's Services five years ago, after 6-year-old Elisa Izquierdo was killed by her mother, though the city was aware she was in potential danger. In its final report in December, an independent panel of experts said that while the city had a way to go, it had made "remarkable progress."
The panel cited improvements in child abuse investigations and staff training, a drop in the foster care population and a growth in the number of adoptions -- all results of the city's efforts and several other factors, like the long-healthy economy and a decline in crack use. 
The report also raised some cautionary flags, including concerns about the contract agencies that deliver child services for government. "We've got a reform effort with tremendous potential here," Steven D. Cohen, the panel's staff director, said yesterday. "If the nonprofit agencies don't get enough money to hire, train and retain a qualified staff, that effort will be endangered."
The core problem is money. In effect, the city has a two-tier system: all caseworkers who investigate allegations of abuse and neglect, and a small proportion of foster care workers, are employed directly by the Administration for Children's Services. Thanks to an infusion of city money, starting salaries are up to $29,626 a year from about $25,000, and they will rise to $32,285 in six months. Training is now longer and stronger.
But caseworkers with contract agencies, which handle from three-quarters to 88 percent of the foster care cases, earn a median starting salary of $25,000 that doesn't rise significantly. The turnover rate in those agencies is 40 percent, studies show, compared with 15 percent in the city agency (down from 50 percent in 1996).
Carmen Smith, who just left Seamen's to be a child protective specialist with the Administration for Children's Services, was earning $25,650 at Seamen's. Her new salary is $32,000, and it will go to $36,000 in 18 months. "You need a certain amount of money to live comfortably," Ms. Smith, 50, said yesterday during a lunch break at the city's social work academy.
HIGH turnover rates are hurtful, because they extend stays in foster care and delay a child's path to reunification with parents or to adoption: each time a case changes hands, the process of investigating a parent's fitness to reclaim a child begins all over again. Months in foster care can stretch into years as cases move from worker to worker.
Foster care money comes from Washington, Albany and local governments, but Albany is the key player. The Democratic Assembly says yes on appropriating more money; the Republican-led State Senate says maybe; Gov. George E. Pataki says only that the issue will be in budget negotiations. The city, and other localities, could presumably allocate more money to these agencies, but the political focus is clearly on Albany, keeper of the complicated statewide financing formula.
Nicholas Scoppetta, the commissioner of the Administration for Children's Services, is just back from lobbying in Albany and will continue to press for more resources for the contract agencies. The plight of the nonprofit agencies "has the potential for impeding our reform effort," he said. "It's not that they are not willing to make changes, or don't agree. They do. But they are saying we cannot keep asking them to do more with less." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILD WELFARE (91%); BUDGETS (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CHILD ABUSE (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); CHILD PROTECTIVE SERVICES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (86%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (86%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); CHILD CARE (78%); FAMILY (78%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (64%); COCAINE (50%) CHILD ABUSE AND NEGLECT; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (66%) PURNICK, JOYCE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2001 



150 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1198 words

HEADLINE: Pressed Against a 'Race Ceiling' 

BYLINE:  By KEVIN SACK 

DATELINE: ATLANTA, April 4 

 BODY:
When Marc H. Morial, the popular young mayor of New Orleans, announced last month that he would seek to amend the city charter so he could run for a third term, he spoke of unfinished business and the need to improve his city's schools.
What was left unsaid, but widely understood, was that unless Mr. Morial could escape the city's two-term limit, his promising political career would in all likelihood come to an early end.
 Mr. Morial, 43, is black. And though the mayor is widely admired in his majority-black city, Mr. Morial and others have concluded that he would have minimal prospects as a statewide candidate in a majority-white state with a history of racially polarized voting. 
 "People have asked, 'Wouldn't you like to run for the Senate, for governor or attorney general?' " Mr. Morial said in an interview from Israel, where he was traveling last week with the United States Conference of Mayors.
"And I say, 'Certainly, I'd be interested in that at some point. But in Louisiana they haven't elected a statewide African-American official since the 1880's.' "
Some 36 years after the passage of the Voting Rights Act, only one African-American -- L. Douglas Wilder of Virginia -- has been elected governor of any state and only two -- Edward W. Brooke of Massachusetts and Carol Moseley-Braun of Illinois -- have been elected to the United States Senate.
A number of black candidates, from former Mayor Andrew J. Young of Atlanta to former Mayor Harvey Gantt of Charlotte, N.C., have lost statewide races because of an inability to attract enough white votes. Others -- like former Mayor Richard Arrington of Birmingham, Ala., and Representative John Lewis of Atlanta -- have simply chosen not to compete because of their conviction that they could never win the needed crossover vote. 
That has created something of a bottleneck for black political ambitions. And the problem is particularly acute with a Republican in the White House, diminishing hopes for black Democrats to secure cabinet appointments or other federal jobs.
"There's a race ceiling on the aspirations of talented black politicians, and for that matter on the untalented," said Julian Bond, chairman of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People. "The ordinary white city councilman can aspire to be anything in elective office. He or she may not make it, but their aspirations are unlimited. The typical black politician simply cannot do that."
There are more black elected officials today than ever: 8,936 in 1999, according to the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies, compared with 1,469 in 1970. But the vast majority are local politicians in majority black districts. That is particularly true in Southern states, which have the country's largest concentrations of black voters and the largest numbers of black elected officials.
There also are more black statewide elected officials than ever: 595 in 1999 compared with 169 in 1970, according to the Joint Center. But almost all are midlevel officials and judges, and many first gained office through appointments to fill unexpired terms. 
In his interview, Mr. Morial made it clear that he saw a glass ceiling for black politicians in Louisiana and that it played a major role in his seeking a third term.
Thirty percent of the voting-age population in Louisiana is black, second only to Mississippi. But history supports Mr. Morial's analysis. Two black Democratic congressmen ran for governor in the 1990's and both lost badly.
"I think I could run statewide and get 20 to 25 percent of the crossover vote," Mr. Morial said, "but you'd need 30 to 35 percent to win." 
Susan E. Howell, director of the Survey Research Center at the University of New Orleans, said Mr. Morial could "absolutely" win a statewide race if he were white. "He's very charismatic, very intelligent," she said.
But Ms. Howell said that pure racism was not the only explanation for Mr. Morial's problems. "For a black politician to become a congressman or mayor, they have to have a base with a black electorate that has a very liberal agenda," she said. Supporting that agenda, she said, "becomes baggage when you run statewide."
For similar reasons, Mr. Lewis, the eight-term congressman from Atlanta, said he had decided against running for the Senate.
"It's difficult," he said. "There's a ceiling in many parts of our country, especially in the South."
Mr. Arrington, who was mayor of Birmingham for 20 years until 1999, said he, too, had considered a Senate run. But he said he thought the only way to be successful in Alabama would have been to run as an independent and hope the Democratic and Republican candidates split the white vote. Ultimately, he concluded that he could not raise enough money as an independent.
"I was elected five times, and I never got more than about 12 percent of the white vote," said Mr. Arrington, who is now retired. "There's just an awareness of being locked in. No matter how well you did as mayor, you weren't likely to move on to a higher position if you had to depend on a voting population that's majority white."
Several states now have elected a number of African-Americans to midlevel statewide posts. But often those elections have come only after gubernatorial appointments allowed them to gain name recognition and the support of their party.
In Georgia, blacks have been elected in recent years as attorney general, labor commissioner, public service commissioner, and to fill two seats on the state Supreme Court and one on the Court of Appeals. Five of the six were appointed before being elected. In both North Carolina and Alabama, blacks who had been appointed to the states' Supreme Court lost to whites in elections last year.
Mr. Gantt, who lost Senate races to Jesse Helms in 1990 and 1996, is now an architect in Charlotte. He said black politicians must continue to test their chances. Only by being elected, and then by demonstrating to whites that blacks can govern fairly and effectively, can the ceiling be broken, he said.
One of those trying is H. Carl McCall, the New York state comptroller, who plans to run for governor in 2002. Mr. McCall, who has been elected twice to his statewide post, said he had refused to allow race to become a factor in his political considerations. "If I had to worry about race, I wouldn't get up in the morning," he said.
As for Mr. Morial, many political observers in New Orleans believe he will have difficulty changing the city charter to eliminate the two-term limit, which has been in place for nearly 50 years. He first must collect 10,000 signatures and then win a citywide referendum before being allowed to run in 2002. 
Although Mr. Morial is credited with reducing crime and improving streets and parks, the city's voters have long expressed skepticism about concentrating power in one person for so long. Similar measures have been rejected three times since World War II, twice during the 1980's when Mr. Morial's father, Ernest N. Morial, was a mayor.
If the referendum fails, Mr. Morial said, he would have few options but to wait for the country to outgrow its racial voting patterns.
"Maybe it'll change," he said. "I've got age on my side."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Black politicians like former Mayor Richard Arrington of Birmingham, Ala., above, and Mayor Marc Morial of New Orleans believe they cannot win the crossover vote needed for higher office. (Photographs by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); POLITICS (89%); TERM LIMITS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (74%); CIVIL RIGHTS (74%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (71%); ELECTION LAW (69%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (68%) ELECTIONS; BLACKS; GOVERNORS (US) 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CONFERENCE OF MAYORS (56%) SENATE (US) 

PERSON: JOHN LEWIS (56%) SACK, KEVIN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (93%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (92%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (93%); ALABAMA, USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES; SOUTHERN STATES (US)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2001 



151 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 150 words

HEADLINE: The Battle Over Money in Politics 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re "Campaign Finance Bill Passes in Senate, 59-41; House Foes Vow a Fight" (front page, April 3): 
 No matter what legislation emerges, it just won't work. 
Congress is looking at the wrong end of the equation. I suggest that we limit the amount of money that can be spent in running for a particular office.
All office seekers, and only office seekers, should be allowed to spend a specific amount of money running for an office. Interest groups would be restricted to soliciting their own members' support for a candidate. 
Each public office would have a monetary limit that could be spent on the campaign. We should include automatic increases tied to inflation so that future legislators would not find a need to increase spending down the road. Of course, if we all didn't want so much from government, there would be no need for campaign reform.

AL LENZA
Staten Island, April 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGN FINANCE (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICS (90%); ELECTIONS (88%); ETHICS (84%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) ELECTIONS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FINANCES; ETHICS 

PERSON: LENZA, AL 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%) UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2001 



152 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 3; Sports Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 242 words

HEADLINE: GOLF; 
Senior Tour Drops Atlanta

BYLINE:  By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The Senior PGA Tour will not play in Atlanta this year because the tournament could not line up a sponsor.
 Tournament officials blamed a weakening economy for their inability to secure financial backing for the event, which was scheduled for Sept. 21-23 at the Golf Club of Georgia in Alpharetta, an Atlanta suburb. 
 "It's unfortunate," Warner Neal, the tournament's executive director, said yesterday. "We had a good event. I hate to see it go away."
LiquidGolf.com was supposed to take over as the title sponsor this year, following Nationwide Insurance, but financial troubles prompted the Internet company to drop out.
The Tour had given tournament officials until Monday to find a new title sponsor.
Neal hopes a sponsor can be found for 2002. 
"The city will lose the event for at least a year," Neal said. "That doesn't prevent us from coming back next year if a sponsor is found."
He also said the tournament had raised $3 million for charity during its 10-year run. 
The average title sponsorship on the Senior Tour runs about $2 million.
The tournament had been held at the Golf Club of Georgia for the past six years. Before that, it was held four years at the Country Club of the South.
Jeff Adams, spokesman for the Senior PGA Tour, said there have been preliminary talks with other cities about taking over the Atlanta date. He declined to name them.
"Now, we're in a position to get a little more serious with those conversations," Adams said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPONSORSHIP (91%); GOLF (91%); SPORTS SPONSORSHIP (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (90%) GOLF 

COMPANY: NATIONWIDE MUTUAL INSURANCE CO (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%) GEORGIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) ATLANTA (GA)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2001 



153 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 26 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Vehicle Sales in March 

 BODY:
 Despite a slowing economy, vehicle sales were surprisingly strong in March, due in part to an increase in vehicles sold with rebates or discount coupons.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 7, 2001

 CORRECTION:
A chart in Business Day on Thursday showing vehicle sales in the United States in March misstated car sales for three companies -- Honda, DaimlerChrysler and Nissan. It also misstated Daimler's light truck sales and overall industry sales. A corrected chart appears today on Page C4.

GRAPHIC: Chart:ANNUAL SELLING RATEFor cars and light trucks sold in the U.S., seasonally adjusted Graph tracks millions of cars, minivans, sport utility vehicles and pickups sold from September 1999 to March 2001. INDUSTRY SALESFor vehicles sold in the U.S. 2001Cars: 789,584Light Trucks: 807,227Total: 1,596,811 2000Cars: 835,814Light Trucks: 827,692Total: 1,663,506 Change*Cars: -5.5%Light Trucks: -2.5%Total: -4.0% CAR SALESCompanies listed were the leading sellers in the U.S. market in 2000. G.M.NUMBER SOLD: 213,310CHANGE*: -4.2MARKET SHARE: 27.0% Ford+NUMBER SOLD: 146,969CHANGE*: -18.1MARKET SHARE: 18.6 ToyotaNUMBER SOLD: 86,564CHANGE*: +0.9MARKET SHARE: 11.0 HondaNUMBER SOLD: 27,425CHANGE*: -65.6MARKET SHARE: 3.5 DaimlerChryslerNUMBER SOLD: 60,620CHANGE*: -34.3MARKET SHARE: 7.7 NissanNUMBER SOLD: 26,746CHANGE*: -31.1MARKET SHARE: 3.4 TOP-SELLING VEHICLESThe top-selling vehicles in the U.S. and change from a year earlier. Ford F-SeriesNUMBER SOLD: 82,227CHANGE: -9.2 Chevrolet SilveradoNUMBER SOLD: 66,253CHANGE: +7.9 Honda AccordNUMBER SOLD: 37,647CHANGE: +5.5 Ford ExplorerNUMBER SOLD: 36,759CHANGE: -21.3 Toyota CamryNUMBER SOLD: 36,436CHANGE: +1.0 Dodge RamNUMBER SOLD: 34,035CHANGE: -4.0 Ford TaurusNUMBER SOLD: 33,050CHANGE: -20.0 Ford RangerNUMBER SOLD: 31,324CHANGE: -27.2 Dodge CaravanNUMBER SOLD: 27,906CHANGE: -25.5 Ford FocusNUMBER SOLD: 25,989CHANGE: -8.0 Jeep Gr. CherokeeNUMBER SOLD: 23,025CHANGE: +1.2 Chevrolet CavalierNUMBER SOLD: 21,978CHANGE: +0.5 LIGHT TRUCK SALESCompanies listed were the leading sellers in the U.S. market in 2000. Ford+NUMBER SOLD: 233,937CHANGE*: -9.0MARKET SHARE: 29.0% G.M.NUMBER SOLD: 224,154CHANGE*: -5.1MARKET SHARE: 27.8 DaimlerChrysler$SNUMBER SOLD: 173,883CHANGE*: -7.0MARKET SHARE: 21.5 ToyotaNUMBER SOLD: 69,880CHANGE*: +28.1MARKET SHARE: 8.7 NissanNUMBER SOLD: 26,892CHANGE*: -12.8MARKET SHARE: 3.3 HondaNUMBER SOLD: 27,425CHANGE*: +9.0MARKET SHARE: 3.4 *Based on average daily sales, including fleet sales, adjusted for any differences in the number of selling days in a month. +Includes Volvo and Rover sales$SIncludes Mercedes-Benz sales(Source: Ward's Auto Info Bank)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SALES (92%); SALES REBATES (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (88%) AUTOMOBILES, TRUCKS AND OTHER MOTOR VEHICLES; NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2001 



154 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 543 words

HEADLINE: Cost-Cutting at TheStreet.com Includes Another 40 Layoffs 

BYLINE:  By JAYSON BLAIR 

 BODY:
TheStreet.com, the online financial news service whose once-soaring stock and detailed coverage of the markets helped symbolize the Internet boom, said yesterday that it would lay off 20 percent of its work force, or about 40 people, in a restructuring aimed at saving cash and reaching profitability.
 The dismissals and other cuts are expected to save about $15 million a year. TheStreet.com has about $60 million in cash on hand. Through the end of 2000, it was spending about $15 million a quarter. 
 Thirty-nine of the jobs cut were in New York; the other was in San Francisco. Company officials said most layoffs were in the newsroom.
In a statement, the company said it would sublease part of its space at 14 Wall Street and cut discretionary spending in several areas, including marketing, travel and contract services like freelance writing.
"We have made these difficult but deliberate business decisions as a necessary response to fundamental changes in the economic environment," the company's chief executive, Thomas J. Clarke, said yesterday in the statement.
Mr. Clarke said the cuts were expected to reduce costs and push the company toward profitability, while increasing the value of the company in the eyes of Wall Street.
Shares of TheStreet.com fell 19 cents yesterday, to $2. 
Yesterday's layoffs were the second round for TheStreet.com, which had dismissed about 40 people in November. Those dismissals were intended to save $3.1 million a year. But in February, TheStreet.com said its fourth-quarter loss widened as a result of the layoffs, along with charges for closing its offices in Britain and ending its newsroom venture with New York Times Digital.
Including such extraordinary items as a $17.6 million charge for the British operations, TheStreet.com said its fourth-quarter loss deepened to $24.6 million, or 90 cents a share, from a loss of $11.8 million, or 47 cents a share, a year earlier.
In a move somewhat atypical of the brusqueness of recent layoffs at most Silicon Alley companies, nearly every employee was notified in a one-on-one meeting with Dave Kansas, the editor in chief of TheStreet.com. Several senior editors and writers were laid off, including the chief markets writer, Brett D. Fromson, who had come to TheStreet.com from The Washington Post.
"A number of people who played a big role in building the organization and making it what it is are leaving," Mr. Kansas said in an interview, "and that is difficult for any organization." 
Mr. Kansas said TheStreet.com's managers were going to "spend the next day or two trying to figure out where we need to focus our resources."
"When you reduce the work force," he said, "you can't continue to do everything you have done." 
The site's coverage, including its stock market reports, has been updated regularly, often several times a day. 
"But we think we can try to find a way," Mr. Kansas said, "to pick our spots so we can be an effective news organization."
One manager who will not be helping with that transition is Mr. Kansas' deputy, Jonathan Krim, the executive editor, who had come to TheStreet.com from The San Jose Mercury News. Mr. Krim said in a statement that he chose to be included in the layoffs "for a number of reasons" that he did not detail. 

CORRECTION-DATE: April 6, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day yesterday about layoffs at TheStreet.com, the online financial news service, misstated the amount of a charge taken for shutting down its British operations. It was $1 million, not $17.6 million.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (92%); DISMISSALS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); NEWS REPORTING (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); WRITERS (88%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (77%); CLOSINGS (74%); INTERVIEWS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); BONDS (69%) STOCKS AND BONDS; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; LABOR; FINANCES 

COMPANY: THESTREET INC (90%); WASHINGTON POST CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: THESTREET.COM 

TICKER: TST (NASDAQ) (90%); WPO (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (51%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (51%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (51%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (51%)

PERSON: BLAIR, JAYSON 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (68%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2001 



155 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 679 words

HEADLINE: An Envoy Waits as Russia Policy Is Pondered 

BYLINE:  By PATRICK E. TYLER 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, April 4 

 BODY:
In the first weeks of the Bush administration, Secretary of State Colin L. Powell recommended to the president that the current United States ambassador to NATO, Alexander Vershbow, become the next ambassador to Russia, administration officials say.
 And though Mr. Bush has since sent to the Senate nominations for ambassadorial posts in Britain, France, Japan, Canada, India and the Bahamas -- and today nominated envoys to Malta and Jamaica -- Mr. Vershbow's nomination remains uncertain as he administration continues to debate whether to pursue a harder line with President Vladimir V. Putin. 
 White House and State Department officials would not comment this week on the recommendation. 
"This is a personnel matter for the White House," said the State Department spokesman, Richard Boucher. 
But other officials said that the delay in making a decision on Mr. Vershbow's nomination may reflect the unresolved policy discussions under way, and perhaps a decision to downgrade Russia's status in the administration's foreign policy calculations. 
"This is usually one of the most important political decisions made at the outset of a new administration," said one Russia specialist. "It seems that they are sending a signal to Russia," he added.
Several Russia specialists fear that the Bush administration no longer sees a vital American interest in being deeply involved -- as the Clinton administration was -- in Russia's post-cold-war evolution, especially as Mr. Putin pursues policies at home and abroad that rankle Washington. 
The contrast between Mr. Bush and his predecessor already is apparent.
When President Clinton arrived in office, he asked one of his closest advisers on Russia policy, Strobe Talbott, to take the Moscow ambassador's post, but Mr. Talbott declined in favor of a senior State Department job specifically focused on Russia and the former Soviet world. Mr. Clinton then turned to Thomas R. Pickering, a seasoned career diplomat who had served as United States ambassador to the United Nations, and dispatched him to Moscow at a time when Russian President Boris N. Yeltsin was struggling to consolidate democratic forces in Russia against a tenacious opposition from nationalists and Communists.
Mr. Pickering served until 1996 and was replaced by James F. Collins, a career Foreign Service specialist on Russia whose tour ends this summer.
Russia no longer is a battleground between Communists and democrats, but the post-Soviet legacy has left Mr. Putin with an inheritance of thousands of nuclear weapons, 40,000 tons of chemical weapons, a weak economy, heavy debts, a bloody secessionist conflict in Chechnya and many other problems for which he is seeking either Western assistance or understanding and cooperation. 
As ambassador to NATO, Mr. Vershbow at times clashed with Russian civilian and military leaders angry over NATO's expansion eastward and the alliance's military intervention in the Balkans in 1999. He has also been a consistent advocate of American plans to put up an anti-missile shield over the United States. 
In a radio interview in Moscow in October 1999, Mr. Vershbow used the arguments of the Nobel laureate Andrei D. Sakharov, who died in 1989, to persuade a Russian audience of the logic of missile defenses. Mr. Sakharov was a nuclear physicist by profession and Mr. Vershbow recounted that he once argued that Washington and Moscow would someday be able to drastically reduce their nuclear arsenals, but would still need "limited means" to defend themselves against nations that acquired weapons of mass destruction. "So Russia should be listening to Sakharov," Mr. Vershbow told the radio audience.
A 1974 graduate of Yale University, Mr. Vershbow served from 1979 to 1981 at the American Embassy in Moscow, and during the Reagan and first Bush administrations he was director of the Office of Soviet Union Affairs from 1988 to 1991. In the Clinton administration, he served on the National Security Council staff, where he worked on NATO expansion and coping with the disintegration of the former Yugoslavia. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (92%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); COLD WAR (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (65%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (64%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (63%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES FOREIGN SERVICE; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (89%); BILL CLINTON (78%) TYLER, PATRICK E; PUTIN, VLADIMIR V (PRES); POWELL, COLIN L (SEC); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); VERSHBOW, ALEXANDER 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); FRANCE (92%); BAHAMAS (92%); JAPAN (92%); INDIA (92%); CANADA (92%) RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2001 



156 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 286 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and Mexico Meet on Joint Migration Issues 

BYLINE:  By GINGER THOMPSON 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, April 4 

 BODY:
In an effort to resolve the contentious issues of migration that have long divided Mexico and the United States, high-level officials from both governments agreed today to examine a broad set of proposals intended to make the border safer for Mexican immigrants, expand guest worker programs in the United States and create new incentives to keep Mexicans from abandoning their homeland.
 In a written statement issued at the end of the meeting in Washington, American and Mexican officials indicated that they viewed migration as an issue of "shared responsibility" that must be addressed on both sides of the border. 
For Mexico, where government officials had consistently regarded any efforts to regulate the northward migration as an infringement on their people's fundamental rights, the statement represented a major philosophical shift. 
 A senior Mexican official indicated that the Mexican government was considering new social and economic programs in areas with high migration rates. The joint statement indicated that the two governments were considering cooperating on efforts that would increase protections for Mexican workers in the United States, and on law enforcement efforts at the border. 
"Priority will be given to programs aimed at combating the smuggling of people and preventing the deaths of migrants at the border," the joint statement said.
The meeting of the two-nation migration work group, formed during President Bush's visit in February with Mexican President Vicente Fox, was led for Mexico by Foreign Minister Jorge G. Castaneda and Interior Minister Santiago Creel.
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell and Attorney General John Ashcroft led the meetings for the Bush administration. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (86%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (78%); SMUGGLING (77%); FOREIGN LABOR (77%); REFUGEES (77%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (69%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (67%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MEXICO-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ILLEGAL ALIENS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%); VICENTE FOX QUESADA (78%) THOMPSON, GINGER; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); FOX QUESADA, VICENTE (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%) MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); NORTH AMERICA (94%) MEXICO

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2001 



157 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 367 words

HEADLINE: Greenspan Warns Against Putting Barriers on Trade 

BYLINE:  Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 4 

 BODY:
Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, made a pitch for free trade today, saying protectionism is "unwise and surely self-defeating."
 In testimony before the Senate Finance Committee, Mr. Greenspan repeated his long-held belief that free trade promotes higher standards of living by encouraging competition and fostering gains in productivity. 
 His remarks came as the Bush administration intensified efforts to establish a Western Hemisphere trade zone and as industrialized countries tried to jump-start a new round of market-opening talks under the World Trade Organization.
In a question-and-answer session, Mr. Greenspan labeled as "pretty bizarre" some of the excuses used by countries for keeping out American agricultural products.
"The problem is our trading partners have put up all sorts of barriers" to what he called an awesome American agricultural sector. 
"If we had wholly open markets in agriculture trade, we would have very much larger" exports of food products, he said. America's agriculture industry has been in a long-running battle with the European Union over access to its beef and banana markets. It has also been working to overcome trade problems with countries ranging from China to Chile.
Senators tried to draw Mr. Greenspan into providing hints that he supported efforts to secure protections for their home-state industries, but he largely rebuffed them.
Referring to old-economy industries and the steel industry more specifically, Mr. Greenspan said: "The protectionist propensity to thwart the process of the competitive flow of capital, from failing technologies to the more productive, is unwise and surely self-defeating."
Mr. Greenspan also complained about antidumping suits and countervailing duties, which are intended to counter foreign subsidies, saying they often are "simple guises for inhibiting competition."
During his testimony, he voiced concerns that a slowing economy could encourage protectionism, saying: "There is no question in my mind that as the economy slows we must accelerate our endeavors toward free trade.
"If we were to move in the direction of protection, that would create some very significant problems for the American economy." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); PROTECTIONISM (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (86%); ANTIDUMPING LAWS (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (73%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (73%); LIVING STANDARDS (72%); FOOD INDUSTRY (70%); COUNTERVAILING DUTIES (70%); NEW ECONOMY (69%); PRODUCTIVITY (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (52%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PROTECTIONISM (TRADE); AGRICULTURE 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (93%) GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (58%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2001 



158 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1242 words

HEADLINE: Washington Memo; 
Now for Bush, a Novelty: Having to Face Novelty

BYLINE:  By RICHARD L. BERKE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 4 

 BODY:
President Bush prides himself on order and does not care much for surprises. That explains why his aides painstakingly plotted out the first days, weeks and months of his presidency and are already thinking in detail about what they want to happen next year and the year after.
 Yet the carefully constructed game plans have been spoiled by two dramas in recent days that are largely beyond Mr. Bush's control but could have deep consequences not only for the world but for his presidency: the standoff in China and a stock market that, to put it in the mildest of terms, is looking sick and making people feel sicker. 
 "This is a routine of life, particularly presidential life," said Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr., the historian who was an aide to John F. Kennedy. "They can't control the world. They can't even control Congress. They can't control the weather. And they have to learn to live with novelty." 
Indeed, presidents are inevitably judged not simply by how they followed through on campaign promises but by how they reacted to the unexpected. 
Franklin D. Roosevelt did not go looking for World War II. Ronald Reagan did not anticipate the air controllers' strike that consumed his early days in office. Bill Clinton would never have known before the Oklahoma City bombing that his reaction to it would enhance his stature and help him stare down Newt Gingrich.
Now, after 10 weeks that were more steady than unsettled and at a point when he planned to be zeroing in on winning Congressional support for his budget, Mr. Bush is distracted by debacles that no one ever imagined.
Beyond China and the economy, an energy crisis has emerged in California.
Just as exasperating for Mr. Bush is that one of the grandest legislative triumphs thus far has not belonged to him. It was championed by his chief rival, Senator John McCain of Arizona, whose campaign finance overhaul plan was approved by the Senate on Monday.
"The campaign was about a set of circumstances that aren't applying to his presidency right now because the world is such a volatile place," said Ed Rogers, a veteran of the Reagan White House. "But unfortunately, a lot of being president is how you handle the punches that are thrown at you rather than the things that you affirmatively want to do."
For Mr. Bush, White House veterans agree, the challenges are substantial, not only because he is a novice on the world stage but because polls show that the public is not convinced that he has the ability to deal effectively with a slumping economy or the background to preside over an international crisis. 
Yet for some of these predicaments, Mr. Bush has very few options, if any.
"They've done a pretty good job so far," said Lyn Nofziger, who was an aide to Mr. Reagan, "But now, all of a sudden, we're going to see how they react under pressure."
There also may be some opportunities for Mr. Bush if he can begin to combat a perception, especially among Democrats, that he is not quite up to the job.
"When something sudden like China happens, it's a real test because you're faced with the possibility of unguarded moments, and you're faced with different reactions by different people in your administration," said former Senator John C. Danforth, Republican of Missouri. "To keep everything in check is a real challenge."
So far, Mr. Danforth said, Mr. Bush has helped himself because "he is cool, he is firm, he is completely in control."
Others argue that the economy may present a longer-lasting problem for Mr. Bush because the standoff with China will eventually end -- though the sooner the better for the president.
By contrast, the entire underpinning of Mr. Bush's campaign was prosperity, and the uncertainty over the economy touches every calculation, from his proposals on trade to Social Security to the tax cut. Mr. Bush's aides had hoped that he could muster greater support for his tax cut by promoting it as providing the economy a needed jolt; instead the measure is in danger in the Senate.
"In some ways, Jiang Zemin is less of a problem than Alan Greenspan," said Ross K. Baker, who teaches political science at Rutgers University.
"Diplomats are good at dealing with one another so that there are face-saving devices," Mr. Baker said. "But when a president gets caught in a business cycle, there's not much he can do about it. There's a whole host of economic problems that can't be dealt with by skillful negotiation or a strong cavalry charger."
In a striking contrast to President Bill Clinton, Mr. Bush has so far been reluctant to use the bully pulpit of the presidency to speak out at length, especially about the situation with China. On Monday and Tuesday, he stepped out of the Oval Office to issue terse statements on China. He took no questions, though he is expected to be quizzed on Thursday at a convention of newspaper editors here.
"People will be watching to see how he deals with it," said Fred Greenstein, a presidential historian at Princeton University. "He has to establish a secure presence. You don't want to be as overexposed as Clinton was. But I don't think you have to be the little man who wasn't there."
But Representative Rob Portman, an Ohio Republican with close ties to Mr. Bush, said he was not worried that the president had been the little man. On China, he said, Mr. Bush "has been relatively less visible than President Clinton might have been in the same instance. I think that's appropriate. President Bush is more interested in taking a less active role in trying to get out front on issues that he cannot control."
Representative Anne M. Northup, Republican of Kentucky, said she was been impressed that the White House did not seem rattled. She said she was pleasantly surprised that Karl Rove, the president's top political adviser, showed up as promised at a meeting this morning of conservatives.
"This administration knows that they've got a couple of very serious challenges in front of them, but they're not quaking," Ms. Northup said.
"There's none of this, 'Oh my gosh, what are we going to do?' They're very businesslike. There's no sense of panic. There's no sense of, 'This isn't fair. How did this happen to us?' "
Foreign policy is one area where presidents can often count on bipartisan support. At meetings on Capitol Hill today, Mr. Portman said he found "a remarkable deference" to Mr. Bush among lawmakers in both parties. But Mr. Bush's own party remains deeply split between those who would contain China's growing power and those who favor closer diplomatic ties and deeper and deeper economic engagement.
Still, even if Mr. Bush is able to score politically on China, the unfolding developments could smother his agenda.
"Right now everybody wants the message to be about taxes," said a Republican strategist with close ties to the White House. "Even if he has a victory on China, it's still been a distraction. You can't weave it into the calendar of what the White House wants to do."
White House officials were not saying whether the president consulted his father, a former ambassador to China, on these latest developments in China and with the stock market.
Even so, President Bush can certainly take a lesson from the two biggest external events on his father's watch: the Persian Gulf war and the breakup of the Soviet Union. Mr. Bush drew raves from the public and from Congress for his handling of those international events.
But voters' memories were short. The elder Bush was a one-term president.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (79%); POLITICS (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); AIRLINES (74%); WORLD WAR II (71%); VETERANS (71%); HISTORY (69%); BUDGETS (69%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (68%); BOMBINGS (66%); APPROVALS (64%); BONDS (64%); POLLS & SURVEYS (63%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; STOCKS AND BONDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MILITARY AIRCRAFT; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); RONALD REAGAN (89%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); BILL CLINTON (59%); JOHN MCCAIN (59%); NEWT GINGRICH (59%) BERKE, RICHARD L; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); SOUTH CHINA (72%); HAINAN, CHINA (55%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%) CHINA; HAINAN ISLAND (CHINA)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2001 



159 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1338 words

HEADLINE: From Bumpy Road in Georgia, Favorable View of Bush Plan 

BYLINE:  By DAVID FIRESTONE 

DATELINE: ATLANTA, April 4 

 BODY:
There's not much Republican in arney Taylor Jr., but what little there is has been activated by the prospect of a large federal tax cut.
 Mr. Taylor voted for Al Gore and has a tendency to distress his accountant by using profits for a program to distribute computers to low-income families. But as the owner of a software company that has suffered reversals as the economy has declined, he thinks President Bush may have a point in trying to reduce tax rates. 
 "If everybody takes their tax cut and spends it at Wal-Mart or Chrysler -- well, those guys are our customers," he said ruefully a few days ago, amazed to hear himself spout supply-side economics. "And then maybe our customers would start up the orders they canceled, and we'd get some benefit from it. I mean, our tax cut wouldn't be that big, but it does bring out the Republican in me." 
It has taken Mr. Taylor a decade to reach that notion, as he bounced upon the unforgiving bronco of the technology industry through the 1990's. But unlike many who have sold multiple companies, changed jobs on a whim or soured on the economy's prospects, he has refused to abandon the trip.
At the decade's peak, just two or three years ago, he rn a software company that wrote programs for several Fortune 500 corporations. He employed 15 people and took home about $100,000 a year. Mr. Taylor, 32, tasted the promise of the country's economic expansion, and believed that computers could similarly help other young African-Americans break out of dead-end lives near the poverty line.
He still believes this, even though the last two years have not been kind. Many of his clients are spending less, and his company, Thirteen Scribes Inc., is down to its four principals. He moved out f a house in Stone Mountain, an Atlanta suburb, to an apartment in the less-expensive suburb of Stockbridge, where he and his wife, LaMechee, are rearing their 6-month-old son, Kahlil, on less than half of what Mr. Taylor used to make.
But although he believes that minority companies like his face particular disadvantages -- the perennial struggle to raise venture capital, for one -- Mr. Taylor is convinced there is virtue in making sacrifices to stay afloat and holding on to what remains of the digital economy.
"The companies that were here before, and that make it through the tough times, they're the ones that are going to last," he said. "You look at all the companies with better mousetraps that blew through their cash in a year -- that doesn't take any skill. What matters is holding steady at moments like this with the talent that you have, not giving up, and waiting it out until things turn around."
And, he added, if a tax cut will help to turn things around, he will take it.
The Taylors would pay $1,000 less in annual federal taxes under the administration's proposal, as calculated by the accounting firm of Deloitte & Touche based on the latest legislation moving through Congress. 
Because Ms. Taylor is in school studying to be a massage therapist, the family would not receive the full benefit of Mr. Bush's proposed cut in the "marriage penalty," which primarily helps couples with roughly equal incomes. Their 22 percent tax cut would come through the reduction in rates and the doubling of the child tax credit.
While they would be happy to save that much money, Ms. Taylor -- who tends to be a bit more economically pessimistic than her husband -- said the impact would be marginal.
"We'd probably just spend it paying off bills we've already got," she said. "I don't really think it would change our standard of living." 
She said she already felt pinched by rising energy costs and the expenses of a new infant. "Have you noticed how the food companies are putting less in the same size boxes and charging the same?" she asked.
In recent months, the Taylors have become unexpectedly absorbed in the economy's swoops and dives, its celebrities and statistics. Mr. Taylor has been following the Nasdaq index and the tax-cut debate, hoping for the slightest sign of a market revival for his company's suite of networking and security programs, along with customized software. Mrs. Taylor has been watching the financial news and even following the credit markets.
"Not so long ago, I didn't even know who Alan Greenspan was, but I knew he was very important," she said. "Now I watch to see what he does with interest rates, and what the president does.
"I guess for all those years we didn't realize we had such a good economy," she added. "When you're growing up right in the middle of it, it just seems natural until it ends."
Ms. Taylor, 26, grew up in Athens, Ga., the daughter of a utility worker who was frequently laid off and rehired. During periods without work, the family frequently faced financial difficulty, and often went without health insurance.
Mr. Taylor's family, in Portsmouth, Va., was somewhat better off. Both his parents worked at the shipyard there, and moved their way up from a duplex apartment to a trailer home to their own home on the middle-class side of town. His father bought him a Radio Shack computer when he was 13, and he was hooked, immediately beginning a lifelong fascination with programming that was encouraged in high school computer labs.
("I wish I had paid attention to computers when I was in high school," his wife interjected.)
While in college at Norfolk State University, Mr. Taylor was already making about $10,000 a year on the side doing computer consulting for local small businesses. Later, when he was doing graduate work at the College of William and Mary, NASA hired him to write software for its flight and satellite computer systems.
He spent five years at NASA's offices in the Washington suburbs, earning enough money to impress his father, who eventually switched from electrician to becoming a programmer himself at the shipyard.
In 1993, he quit to begin his own software company, joined by two other former NASA programmers. He moved the company to Atlanta, joining the region's economic boom, and quickly won contracts with BellSouth, Chrysler and several other large companies. But Thirteen Scribes -- a name he said was based on the African belief that 13 is a perfect number -- had to struggle to survive.
"We could never get past the resistance in the investment community to get behind minority technology firms," he said. "I mean, we had NASA scientists and doctorate degrees and a great suite of products, but they wouldn't listen to us.
"So there were good times," he said, "and then there were times when we really had to lean on each other and pass groceries around. But we had a real sense that we needed to stay together for the community."
In 1996, the company spun off a division called Computers in the 'Hood, selling low-cost, low-profit personal computers to working-class Atlanta families, and providing free computer training. 
The program distributed about 350 computers over four years, at a significant cost to the profits of Thirteen Scribes, but Mr. Taylor said it helped address the vast disparity in computer ownership between black and white families.
Although he voted for Mr. Gore, disagreeing with Mr. Bush's support for capital punishment, among other reasons, Mr. Taylor said the computer project convinced him that African-Americans should not rely on government programs to solve their problems. 
More technology companies should provide training in the information industry, he said, and more black families should let children spend as much time at a computer as they now do in front of a television set.
"I'm not saying I want Bush to start cutting back on government programs to pay for the tax cut," he said. "But if the tax cut allows more companies to create more jobs for people like me, that might be worth rolling the dice for."

Judging the Tax Cut
 This is the first article in a series about how taxpayers at varying income levels would be affected by the Bush tax cut proposal. Future installments will focus on a Montana secretary, a Texas doctor and a carpenter in Maine.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Barney Taylor Jr., with his wife, LaMechee, and their son, Kahlil, at their apartment in Stockbridge, Ga. Mr. Taylor, whose software company has fallen on hard times, sees hope in the president's tax cut, but his wife does not believe it will have much of an impact. (Alan S. Weiner for The New York Times)(pg. A16); Barney Taylor Jr. said a tax cut could jump-start the economy. (Alan S. Weiner for The New York Times)(pg. A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POOR POPULATION (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); NEW ECONOMY (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); VENTURE CAPITAL (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); FAMILY (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (68%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (68%); VENTURE CAPITAL APPLICANTS & RECIPIENTS (68%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (59%) TAXATION; SURVEYS AND SERIES; PUBLIC OPINION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; CAPITAL PUNISHMENT; ELECTION ISSUES 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); AL GORE (73%) FIRESTONE, DAVID; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); TAYLOR, BARNEY JR 

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%) GEORGIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2001 



160 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 999 words

HEADLINE: BUSH'S TAX PLAN GETS LIFT IN HOUSE, BUT SENATE BALKS 

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 4 

 BODY:
The House of Representatives voted today to repeal the estate tax, a big item in President Bush's tax plan, but in the Senate the president's proposal for $1.6 trillion in tax cuts over 10 years appeared to be in jeopardy.
 A swing Republican, Senator James M. Jeffords of Vermont, indicated that he was prepared to vote against the full tax cut, the president's top legislative priority, and that could mean there are too few votes in the tightly divided Senate to pass it. 
 The estate tax legislation was the last of the main components of the president's tax legislation to be passed by the House. Under the bill, the estate tax rate would be gradually reduced, but the tax would not actually be repealed until 2011. Last month, the House approved an across-the-board reduction in income-tax rates, lower taxes for married couples and an expanded tax credit for families with children. 
The estate tax measure was approved, 274 to 154. The crucial vote was taken a few minutes earlier when the House rejected, 227 to 201, a Democratic alternative that would have eliminated the tax on three-quarters of the estates that would now owe it but would have retained the tax on the very largest ones.
President Bush called the vote "a victory for fairness and a vote for economic growth."
Like so many votes on tax and spending issues in the House this year, the vote on the Democratic alternative broke mainly along party lines. Only 11 Democrats voted against it, and only 3 Republicans voted for it. More than 50 Democrats joined nearly all House Republicans in voting for the bill that passed. 
At the beginning of the day on the other side of the Capitol, the Senate seemed ready to approve an outline of the president's budget more or less intact. On a crucial test vote on Tuesday night, Vice President Dick Cheney broke a 50-50 tie to give Republicans a victory. On that vote, only two senators broke party ranks: Lincoln Chafee of Rhode Island, a Republican, voted with the Democrats, and Zell Miller of Georgia, a Democrat, voted with Republicans.
But this afternoon, Mr. Jeffords, who had been unenthusiastic all along about the Bush tax cuts and who is a strong advocate of more money for education of the disabled, appeared at a news conference with a group of Democrats who favor cutting taxes by $1.25 trillion over 10 years, half way between the Republican and Democratic positions.
Mr. Jeffords, chairman of the committee with jurisdiction over education, said he was not satisfied with the amount of money Republicans had set aside for education in their budget plan. Asked whether that meant he would vote against a $1.6 trillion tax cut, he answered, "nless a miracle occurs, I feel I am leaning in that direction."
Later as the Senate continued to consider its budget resolution, Mr. Jeffords cast the decisive vote in favor of a Democratic proposal to reduce the 10-year tax cut by $448 billion and shift the money, half and half, to education programs and debt reduction. The measure won preliminary approval.
This vote could well be reversed. And like everything else the Senate does on the budget resolution, it is not by itself conclusive. Mr. Bush's spokesman, Ari Fleischer, said in an interview that today's Senate vote was "part of an ongoing process." He added, "The Senate will do what the Senate will do."
Budget resolutions are not laws but simply guides to Congress on the direction of tax and spending legislation for the rest of the year. The numbers in budget resolutions are often changed before the final amounts are set.
Still, with the Senate so evenly divided, Mr. Jeffords's defection sent Republicans into intense negotiations to try to reclaim their majority and had Democrats gleeful.
Speaking about the $1.6 trillion tax cut, Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the Democratic leader, declared, "That today is now dead."
Democrats have several other proposals they plan to offer before work on the budget blueprint is completed later this week that would reduce the tax cut to finance popular programs.
Republicans are trying to counter that by proposing to leave the tax cuts alone and finance the extra spending with what they call a contingency fund. Democrats hold that the contingency fund includes money that should be earmarked for Medicare, the health insurance program for the elderly and disabled.
In the House, on the other hand, Republicans are solidly in control. The bill approved today would gradually reduce estate tax rates, now as high as 55 percent, and would repeal the tax entirely in 2011. After the repeal, heirs would have to pay capital gains taxes on inherited property.
The measure would cost only $185 billion in the next 10 years, the period in which cost estimates are made, but the amount of revenue lost would explode after the repeal took effect in 2011.
"It's a gimmick," declared Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the Democratic leader. "This is not an honest tax cut."
Representative Charles B. Rangel, Democrat of Manhattan, joked, "If you want to protect your estate, don't die for 10 years."
The Democratic plan he and Mr. Gephardt favored would have increased the size of estates exempt from the tax to $2 million next year, $4 million for a couple, and would eventually have increased the exemption to $2.5 million for an individual and $5 million for a couple. It would cost $40 billion over 10 years.
The exemption is now $675,000, and only 2 percent of estates exceed that. Democrats said that under their plan, three-quarters of estates that are now taxed would be exempt.
But Republicans said complete repeal was the only answer. "We all know that if you leave any part of this tax intact, this tax will grow back," said Representative Jennifer Dunn of Washington.
Representative J. C. Watts Jr., Republican of Oklahoma, criticized the tax as a terrible burden to "small-business owners and family farmers who want to leave a legacy to their children." 
The Senate plans to take up the tax legislation next month.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Trent Lott, left, led a strategy session of Congressional Republican leaders yesterday as the Senate continued its budget debate. Among those present were Representatives Tom DeLay, center, and J. C. Watts. (Associated Press)(pg. A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (96%); TAX LAW (94%); ESTATE TAX (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); TAX RELIEF (91%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); ESTATE PLANNING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); APPROVALS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ESTATE GIFT & TRUST LAW (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); FAMILY (73%); INCOME TAX (72%); CHILDREN (72%); EDUCATION FUNDING (69%); MARRIAGE (68%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (66%) TAXATION; INHERITANCE AND ESTATE TAXES; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; HANDICAPPED; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); TRENT LOTT (59%); DICK CHENEY (58%); LINCOLN CHAFEE (57%) ROSENBAUM, DAVID E; JEFFORDS, JAMES M (SEN); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2001 



161 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 3914 words

HEADLINE: WEEKEND EXCURSION; 
For Love of Ivy, And Civility

BYLINE:  By RICHARD RUDA; Richard Ruda, who received two degrees in history from Yale, frequently writes about architecture.

 BODY:
Perhaps the greatest pleasure Oxford University offers its many visitors is the hope, never disappointed, of unexpectedly coming upon an utterly disarming view or an exceptionally beautiful old building. While Yale University cannot match Oxford's antiquity, neither is it, at three centuries old this year, a parvenu.
 Yale can also fairly compete with Oxford in architectural quality, its postwar buildings making it, in the estimation of the architectural historian G. E. Kidder Smith, "a mecca for architects from all over the world." 
 Yale's compact urban campus is also delightfully picturesque, thanks to its many superbly designed and meticulously detailed neo-Gothic buildings of the 1920's and 30's. Like Oxford, Yale has world-class libraries and museums, including the finest collection of British art outside Britain. Given its proximity to New York -- a 90-minute train ride rather than a trans-Atlantic flight -- Yale is an irresistible weekend destination. 
Yale's hometown, New Haven, itself almost 400 years old, adds to the pleasures of a weekend visit. A spacious New England green graced by a row of three handsome early 19th-century churches, a historic cemetery with a majestic Egyptian Revival gateway and countless illustrious occupants, and the restaurants in which pizza and the hamburger sandwich are said to have been invented (both still great places to eat) are just a few of the city's attractions.
In 1638 the Rev. John Davenport and the merchant Theophilus Eaton founded the New Haven Colony to establish a Puritan "Bible State" in which, by its original covenant, "the word of God shall be the onely rule to be attended into in ordering the affayres of government." By 1660 the New Haven Colony extended as far west as Greenwich and even took in Southold on Long Island's North Fork. By 1665, however, after the collapse of Cromwell's Puritan regime and the restoration of King Charles II, the larger, worldlier Connecticut Colony had swallowed up the New Haven Colony.
Thirty-five years later, a dozen Puritan elders from throughout Connecticut (all but one of them Harvard graduates) established an institution to guarantee an adequate supply of reliably orthodox ministers, which the distant and dangerously heterodox Harvard could not provide. The first home of this "Collegiat School" was in Saybrook, 25 miles east of New Haven. The tiny school experienced 15 years of tenuous and peripatetic existence until it moved to New Haven, a thriving seaport and Connecticut's largest metropolis (population 1,500).
In 1718 the fledgling institution finally gained a secure fiscal footing thanks to Elihu Yale, a merchant who had made a fortune while governor of Madras and whose grandparents had been among New Haven's founders. Yale's gift included valuable books, several bales of East Indian goods (resold at a huge profit) and a Kneller portrait of King George I. Hence the name Yale College. (Sadly, Elihu Yale probably never saw New Haven or the college named after him.)
Throughout the 18th and 19th centuries Yale remained a staunchly conservative institution with a distinctly Protestant orientation. But during the 1800's it also added an array of professional schools: medicine, divinity, law, music, art and the first graduate school in the United States to award a Ph.D. In the 20th century there followed schools of forestry, nursing, drama, architecture and management, culminating in today's renowned university.

The Central Core
I egan my visit on a bright Saturday morning on Yale's Old Campus, across from New Haven's Green. Here, at the corner of College and Chapel Streets, the Collegiate School opened in New Haven. The Old Campus remains an epicenter of the university, providing dormitory accommodation for most freshmen and a site for major ceremonies. It has Yale's two oldest buildings: Connecticut Hall (1753), a National Historic Landmark that is a deliberate copy of Massachusetts Hall at Harvard, and the former library (1842), the university's first foray into the Gothic Revival architectural style. (It is now Dwight Hall, the center for public service at Yale.)
In front of Connecticut Hall stands Bela Lyon Pratt's statue of Nathan Hale, Yale Class of 1773, a New London schoolmaster who fought in the Revolutionary Army and then served bravely but with a conspicuous lack of success as a spy. On Sept. 21, 1776, while returning from his first mission, to British-held Long Island, Hale was captured in Manhattan. He was hanged the next day, age 21, his last words said to have been "I only regret that I have but one life to lose for my country."
Crossing High Street from the Old Campus, one enters the world of Yale's 12 residential colleges. Although there are slightly more Yale graduate students (5,688 in last fall's enrollment) than undergraduates (5,278), the residential colleges define the university. Each freshman is randomly assigned to a college, though most do not take up residence there until sophomore year.
Eight of Yale's 10 original residential colleges and the principal older buildings at the heart of the campus are the work of James Gamble Rogers, class of 1889. Rogers's fashioning of Yale's architecture in the 1920's and 30's demonstrates that a technically skilled, meticulous and practical architect need not be stylistically innovative to define an institution's physical identity. His group of Collegiate Gothic and Georgian Revival buildings in Yale's compact central core indelibly established the university's character.
Many of Rogers's most conspicuous buildings are frankly derivative, but fortunately he had impeccable taste. Harkness Tower, Yale's neo-Gothic icon, was inspired by the staggeringly beautiful 15th-century tower of St. Botolph's Church in Boston, Lincolnshire. Wrexham Tower is modeled on the 16th-century tower of St. Giles Church in Wrexham, Wales (where Elihu Yale is buried). The Law School library is based on the Chapel of King's College, Cambridge, built from 1446 to 1515. 
Rogers did not simply parrot some of England's finest medieval structures. By placing within his larger buildings innumerable smaller spaces in an exquisitely (and often humorously) embellished neo-Gothic style, he created an academic setting in an urban locale that is simultaneously inviting, functional and secluded. Rogers's gifts are manifest throughout his eight colleges, as well as in his other Yale buildings. One of his finest works is Branford College, whose four courtyards are flanked by Harkness and Wrexham Towers and enriched throughout with neo-Gothic details.
Similar architectural attributes are evident in the centerpiece of Yale's campus, Sterling Memorial Library (1930); its initial design was by Bertram Grosvenor Goodhue, although Rogers took over the project after Goodhue's death. Highlights include the main entrance, with sculptures by Lee Laurie (whose statue of Atlas is in Rockefeller Center), and the vast Gothic "nave" (main hall) decorated with carved reliefs of Yale's early history. The nave culminates in an "altar" (the circulation desk) consisting of a kitschy mural of Alma Mater flanked by depictions of Truth, Music, Divinity and Literature, the creation of a Yale art professor whose name is best forgotten.
The Library's main reading room and cloistered inner courtyard are unusually beautiful places to study or converse (quietly). Rogers's Law School (1931) and Hall of Graduate Studies (1932) also have tranquil courtyards with charming neo-Gothic details like decorated Romanesque arches and oriel windows. And don't miss the amusing policeman, robber and judge carved at eye level along the Wall Street facade of the Law School.

Warmth in Poured Concrete
Just behind Mory's, a private eating club on York Street, are two of the four colleges not designed by Rogers. Built in the early 1960's, Morse and Ezra Stiles Colleges are by Eero Saarinen (class of 1934), the Finnish-American architect who was as innovative and visionary as Rogers was conservative and traditional. Constructed of poured concrete, Morse and Stiles nonetheless manage to convey warmth and intimacy, and harmonize with Yale's other colleges.
(The two other colleges not designed by Rogers are Calhoun, the work of John Russell Pope, and Silliman, by Eggers & Higgins.)
Saturday ended at the Beinecke Rare Book and Manuscript Library (1963), another of Yale's landmarks of modern architecture. The work of Gordon Bunshaft, Beinecke's walls are octagonal panels of Vermont marble whose interior faces vary in amber hue in direct relation to the level of exterior sunlight.
Early Sunday morning I visited Grove Street Cemetery, just across from Yale Law School. Founded in 1796, it was the first of the landscaped cemeteries that proliferated in 19th-century America. The entrance is a monumental Egyptian Revival gateway (1845) designed by Henry Austin, buried nearby. The rare but fittingly lugubrious Egyptian style was chosen, according to the cemetery's history, because it was "in vogue at that time and sufficiently massive, but without offense to denominational sensibilities."
Buried in the cemetery are such eminent New Haven personages as Theophilus Eaton, co-founder of the New Haven Colony; Roger Sherman, signer of the Declaration of Independence, the Constitution and the Articles of Confederation; Noah Webster (class of 1778) of lexicographical fame; Eli Whitney (class of 1792), inventor of the cotton gin; Charles Goodyear, who "invented" vulcanized rubber by accident; Ithiel Town, New Haven's finest architect; Walter Camp (class of 1880), the Yale coach known as the "father of American football"; and many Yale presidents. Last year the cemetery was designated a National Historic Landmark. 
I walked from there to nearby Hillhouse Avenue, once called by Charles Dickens the most beautiful street in America. Its towering elm trees long gone, Hillhouse is less impressive today, although the university is now in the midst of a combined horticultural and architectural renovation along the avenue's main block. Many of its grand homes have been reincarnated as Yale offices and classrooms. Only two buildings caught my eye. No. 43, a Georgian Revival mansion, is the residence of Yale's president. To its right, 37 Hillhouse Avenue houses the economics department but has interesting associations with two recent American presidents, both named Bush.
After World War II Yale subdivided 37 Hillhouse into 13 tiny apartments for returning servicemen and their families. From 1946 to 1948 George H. W. Bush, a Yale undergraduate home from the war, his wife, Barbara, and his infant son, George W. (born in New Haven on July 6, 1946), lived on the first floor. There were disadvantages to having Yale's president, Charles Seymour, as a neighbor: one day Mr. Seymour is said to have asked Mr. Bush to remove George W.'s diapers from the backyard clothesline because he was expecting an important guest.
Hillhouse Avenue ends at Sachem Street, at the foot of Philip Johnson's three-building science complex, constructed in 1963-65. One block west is another of Yale's groundbreaking modern buildings, Saarinen's Ingalls Hockey Rink (1958), a soaring structure that prefigures his T.W.A. Terminal at Kennedy Airport in New York.
Sunday morning is also an ideal time to visit three beautiful churches on the New Haven Green: the United Church on the Green (North Church), the First Church of Christ (Center Church) and Trinity Episcopal Church, all built from 1812-16. Together they make up the centerpiece of the New Haven Green Historic District, another National Historic Landmark. 
Ithiel Town designed both the Georgian Center Church and the Gothic Revival Trinity Church. Center Church is noteworthy for the portrait of Town in its foyer and for its crypt (New Haven's first burying ground), with gravestones dating back to 1687. Trinity Church played a pivotal role in America's architectural history; in the words of William H. Pierson Jr., it is "one of the remarkable churches of the period," reflecting "a decisive turn" in the Gothic Revival movement just then reaching the United States.
Three other sights surround the Green. The New Haven Free Public Library, designed by Cass Gilbert and dedicated in 1911, is at the corner of Elm and Temple Streets. The city's stunningly restored High Victorian City Hall (1861), designed by Henry Austin, is on Church Street, between Elm and Chapel. In front of City Hall is the Amistad Memorial, erected on the site of the jail in which the Africans who won control of the Amistad slave ship in 1839 were imprisoned while awaiting trial.
Walking back to the Yale campus, I stumbled upon a vestige of the short-lived New Haven Colony -- a large monument behind Center Church that marks the burial place of John Dixwell. He was one of three regicides (the 50-odd signatories of the death warrant of King Charles I in January 1649) who cannily sought refuge in staunchly Puritan New Haven after the restoration of Charles II in 1660.
Two other regicides, Edward Whalley and William Goffe, hid for a time in Judges Cave, in what is now West Rock Park, before moving to the Massachusetts Bay Colony. Dixwell settled in New Haven, adopted the pseudonym James Davids, married twice and lived in perfect respectability until he died in 1689. The regicides are commemorated by three downtown New Haven thoroughfares, Dixwell, Whalley and Goffe.

Art and Panoramic Views
On Sunday afternoon I visited Yale's two outstanding art museums, both of which are free to the public. The Yale Art Gallery has an excellent, comprehensive collection, and its 1953 extension was the first major commission for the American architect Louis Kahn. Across the street is Kahn's Center for British Art (1977), completed after his death. His last work is light, spacious, airy and constructed of beautiful materials: burnished steel, white oak and travertine marble. It houses a notable assemblage of British paintings displayed along thematic lines.
My weekend visit ended at the neighboring Art and Architecture Building (1963), designed by the brilliant and uncompromising Paul Rudolph when he was dean of the Yale School of Architecture. This building is Brutalism (a short-lived midcentury school) at its most self-consciously brutal -- an oversize, asymmetrical amalgam of rough-hewn beige concrete, colossal colliding members and large expanses of glass.
Since its completion it has been critically controversial, and reviled by art students because of its impractical studio spaces. Recently designated the exclusive domain of the architecture school, the building just received an alumni gift of $20 million to restore its shabby and much-altered interior.
But the Art and Architecture Building is indisputably superior to other Yale buildings in one respect: the panoramic views of old Yale from its seventh floor and the adjacent rooftop terrace. 
As I gazed across Yale's neo-medieval skyline of towers and turrets, I fleetingly imagined, as Rogers had no doubt hoped, that I was in Oxford. But in the end I was perfectly happy to be in New Haven, an admiring bystander at the 300th birthday of a great university.

From Hallowed Halls to the Place Where Louis Dwells

Events for Yale's 300th birthday are listed in a Tercentennial Events Calendar, available at the Yale Visitor Information Center, 149 Elm Street, (203) 432-2300, and at www.yale.edu/ yale300. The Yale Bulletin and Calendar appears each Friday of the academic year and lists the week's concerts, lectures, plays and sports events, almost all open to visitors; the Bulletin is also at www.yale.edu/opa/current/ calendar.html. Information about New Haven is available from the Greater New Haven Convention and Visitors' Bureau, (800) 332-STAY or (203) 777-8550, and at the bureau's Web site, www.newhavencvb.org.

Yale Attractions

TOURS OF YALE, Yale Visitor Information Center, 149 Elm Street, (203) 432-2300. Open weekdays, 9 a.m. to 4:45 p.m., and weekends, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Free student-led guided tours, preceded by a 15-minute video, at 10:30 a.m. and 2 p.m. Mondays through Fridays and 1:30 p.m. on Saturdays and Sundays.

YALE CENTER FOR BRITISH ART, 1080 Chapel Street, (203) 432-2800. Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. A permanent collection, temporary exhibitions, lectures, readings, films and other events related to British culture. Architectural tours of the museum, designed by Louis Kahn, are scheduled at 11 a.m. the third Saturday of each month.

YALE UNIVERSITY ART GALLERY, 1111 Chapel Street, (203) 432-0600. Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 6 p.m. An extensive permanent collection and frequent temporary exhibitions. The reinstallation of the Garvan Collection of American paintings and decorative arts has opened. "Printed Portraits From the Time of Elihu Yale" and "Ancients and Moderns: Tradition and Transformation in the Art of Asia" run through Sunday.

STERLING MEMORIAL LIBRARY, 120 High Street, (203) 432-1775. Mondays through Thursdays, 8:30 a.m. to midnight; Fridays, 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, 1 p.m. to midnight.

BEINECKE RARE BOOK AND MANUSCRIPT LIBRARY, 121 Wall Street, (203) 432-2977. Mondays through Fridays, 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Permanent exhibits include Yale's copy of the Gutenberg Bible and Audubon's "Birds of North America." Many temporary exhibitions throughout the year.

New Haven Attactions

GROVE STREET CEMETERY, 227 Grove Street, (203) 787-1443. Open daily, 8 a.m. to 4 p.m.; office open weekdays, 9 a.m. to noon. A self-guided walking tour and brochure is available at the office or by calling Friends of the Grove Street Cemetery, (203) 230-9858. The Friends offer free one-hour walking tours on Saturdays at 11 a.m. from June 7 through early October.

UNITED CHURCH ON THE GREEN (North Church), corner of Temple and Elm Streets on New Haven Green, (203) 787-4195. Services on Sundays at 10:30 a.m.; visits at other times by appointment.

FIRST CHURCH OF CHRIST IN NEW HAVEN, (Center Church), mid-block on Temple Street on New Haven Green, (203) 787-0121. Services on Sundays at 9:45 a.m.; visits at other times by appointment. Crypt with remains of original New Haven burying ground is open on Sundays from 11 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. during winter months; from April to November, crypt tours are available on Thursdays and Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 1 p.m.

TRINITY EPISCOPAL CHURCH, corner of Temple and Chapel Streets on New Haven Green, (203) 624-3101. Services on Sundays at 7:45 a.m., 9 a.m. and 1 p.m.; visits at other times by appointment.

NEW HAVEN COLONY HISTORICAL SOCIETY, 114 Whitney Avenue, (203) 562-4183. Tuesdays through Fridays, 1 p.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. Permanent exhibits on New Haven's history and the Amistad affair of 1839-41. The excellent Walking Tour of Historic New Haven brochure is available here.

What to Read

"NEW HAVEN: A GUIDE TO ARCHITECTURE AND URBAN DESIGN," by Elizabeth Mills Brown, Yale University Press, $15. Although not updated since its publication in 1976, this is an exemplary, comprehensive guide to the buildings of Yale and New Haven.

"GREEN GUIDE TO YALE UNIVERSITY AND NEW HAVEN," Michelin Travel Publications, $14.95. Good though brief overview of Yale and downtown New Haven. Fine for a quick visit, with descriptive and historical information and practical details.

"THE YALE: A GUIDE TO YALE AND NEW HAVEN," $4.50 at Yale Visitor Information Center and the Yale Bookstore, 77 Broadway. Yale's detailed guide to every aspect of student life, with information about places to eat and things to do.

"STOVER AT YALE," by Owen Johnson (Class of 1900) with period illustrations by Frederick R. Gruger and a new introduction by Judith Ann Schiff, $14.95 at the Yale Bookstore only. Dink Stover has become a Yale stereotype, but the Stover of Johnson's novel (originally serialized in 1911-12) is a complex and sympathetic character despite his herculean achievements on the gridiron. Johnson paints a critical insider's portrait of the highly stratified and surprisingly anti-intellectual Yale of a century ago.

Where to Stay

OMNI NEW HAVEN HOTEL AT YALE, 155 Temple Street, (800) 843-6664 or (203) 772-6664. A 305-room hotel on Temple Street, a half-block south of the New Haven Green. Double rooms: $119 weekends; $169 weekdays.

HOLIDAY INN, 30 Whalley Avenue, adjacent to the Yale campus, (800) 465-4329 or (203) 777-6221. A 160-room hotel with courteous service. Double rooms start at $95.

THE COLONY, 1157 Chapel Street, (800) 458-8810 or (203) 776-1234. An 86-room hotel near the Yale Art Gallery and the Center for British Art. Double rooms: $95.

Where to Eat

FRANK PEPE'S PIZZERIA NAPOLETANA, 157 Wooster Street, (203) 865-5762. New Havenites swear that pizza was invented in 1925 by Frank Pepe in this old Italian-American neighborhood six blocks east of the New Haven Green. Hours: Mondays, Wednesdays and Thursdays, 4 p.m. to 10 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays, 11:30 a.m. to 11 p.m.; Sundays, 2:30 p.m. to 10 p.m. Patience is essential at peak times on weekends.

SALLY'S APIZZA, 237 Wooster Street, (203) 624-5271. A good nearby alternative, said to have been Bill Clinton's favorite when he was at Yale Law School. Hours: Tuesdays through Thursdays, 5 p.m. to 10:30 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays, 5 p.m. to 11:30 p.m.; Sundays, 5 p.m. to 10 p.m.

LIBBY'S ITALIAN PASTRY SHOP, 139-41 Wooster Street, (203) 772-0380. Serves gelato, spumoni, ices and pastries. Mondays through Wednesdays, 11 a.m. to 10 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays, 11 a.m. to midnight; Sundays, 11 a.m. to 9 p.m.

UNION LEAGUE CAFE, 1032 Chapel Street, near College Street, (203) 562-4299. A beautifully appointed restaurant with excellent food and understated service in an 1860 building that was first the town house of a wealthy industrialist, then the private Union League Club. Lunch, Mondays through Fridays, 11:30 a.m. to 2:30 p.m.; dinner, Mondays through Thursdays, 5 to 9:30 p.m., Fridays and Saturdays, 5 to 10 p.m.

LOUIS' LUNCH, 261-263 Crown Street, (203) 562-5507. Yale's famous "Whiffenpoof Song" praises "the tables down at Mory's" and "the place where Louis dwells." Mory's remains a private eating club, but Louis' Lunch, where the hamburger sandwich is said to have been invented in 1895, still serves great burgers cooked on unusual vertical gas broilers. Tuesdays and Wednesdays, 11 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Thursdays through Saturdays, noon to 2 a.m. Hamburgers are $3.50 with or without cheese; ketchup is prohibited.

YANKEE DOODLE, 258 Elm Street, (203) 865-1074. A tiny place that has fed generations of students its burgers, shakes and, above all, the pig in a blanket (a hot dog with cheese and bacon). Mondays through Saturdays, 6 a.m. to 6:30 p.m.; Sundays, 8 a.m. to 3:30 p.m.

Getting There

BY TRAIN Trains run frequently between Manhattan and New Haven's Union Station, designed by Cass Gilbert: from Penn Station on Amtrak, (800) USA-RAIL or (212) 582-6875 or www.amtrak.com; and from Grand Central Terminal on the Metro-North Railroad, (800) METRO-INFO or (212) 532-4900 or www.mta.nyc.ny.us. Amtrak trains, which leave hourly from 5:30 a.m. to as late as 9 p.m., are $35 one way. On Metro-North, trains run hourly from 5:57 a.m. to 1:30 a.m. The fare is $15.25 one way during peak hours, which are 4 to 8 p.m., and $11.50 during off-peak hours.

BY CAR Driving from west or east of New Haven, use I-95, Exits 47 or 48. From the north, I-91 terminates in downtown New Haven.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Yale's tricentennial: A Branford College courtyard by James Gamble Rogers, class of 1889. (C. M. Glover for The New York Times)(pg. E33); On the historic New Haven Green: The First Church of Christ, which is also known as Center Church. (C.M. Glover for The New York Times)(pg. E41) Map of Connecticut highlighting the Yale University Campus. (pg. E41)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (90%); RELIGION (87%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); HISTORY (77%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (77%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (77%); RESTAURANTS (70%); CITY LIFE (70%); TRAINS (68%); CEMETERIES (51%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES 

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (94%) YALE UNIVERSITY 

PERSON: RUDA, RICHARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (91%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW HAVEN (CONN)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2001 



162 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Column 5; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 894 words

HEADLINE: FILM REVIEW; 
Weaving an Intricate Web To Trap a Wily Kidnapper

BYLINE:  By By ELVIS MITCHELL 

 BODY:
"I have never seen a man work so hard at being busy," Vickie (Anna Maria Horsford) says to Dr. Alex Cross (Morgan Freeman), the meticulous forensic psychologist slaving away at distracting himself in "Along Came a Spider." Vickie's remark could serve as an assessment of this overplotted, hollow thriller, which crams in so much exposition that characters speak in fetid hunks for what seems like minutes at a time. And Vickie, a minor figure who has some unexplained relationship with Cross, disappears after delivering that line. 
 Usually, part of the fun of a genre picture is seeing actors tear off a piece of script with their teeth and offer a juicy piece of characterization. This movie departs from that enjoyable tradition, for there are no characters in "Spider." It represents Paramount's single-minded focus on the moneyed exploitation picture, that studio's bread and butter, with tributes to the ridiculous like "The General's Daughter," "Double Jeopardy" and "Kiss the Girls." ("Spider" is its follow-up, from another of James Patterson's novels.) Not only has the studio whittled these movies down to haiku, but it's also a haiku with only two lines. This diminution makes "Spider" trash adjusted for inflation. "Spider" brings back Mr. Freeman as Cross, the thoughtful investigator who is dragged into impossibly involved cases when he's at his worst. This time Cross is trying to recover from a botched undercover operation that took the life of his partner in a paroxysm of second-rate computer graphic effects. "A damaged cop shouldering some heavy baggage," says the F.B.I. Agent McArthur (Dylan Baker) by way of description. 
 Cross is wrested from his knot of self-pity by Gary Soneji (Michael Wincott), a kidnapper who is one of those archvillains with way too much money and free time on their hands. Soneji is the Bruce Wayne of kidnappers; his houseboat has more high-tech gadgets than the Batcave.
Cross is soon knee deep in a high-profile kidnapping case. Soneji has abducted a senator's daughter from her private school, a crime he is determined to make as big as the Lindbergh case. Jezzie Flanagan (Monica Potter), the Secret Service agent on whose watch the crime took place, pushes herself into Cross's investigation.
It seems that Secret Service agents, working at a private school in the Washington area where both a senator's daughter and the son of the Russian president are in attendance, never made a very thorough background check on Soneji, a teacher at the school. Nor did they look very closely at his face: he wears a latex mask so obvious you expect a joke to be made about it. (Perhaps the Secret Service was intimidated by his office, a baronial study with a raging fireplace and antique furniture; it could be from an Architectural Digest spread on the Evil Genius's study.) But such goodies are what keep "Spider" in a rarefied group of films -- the "if these characters are so smart, how did they get stuck in this picture?" club.
But "Spider" couldn't be better served than it is by Mr. Freeman, whose prickly smarts and silken impatience bring believability to a classless, underdeveloped thriller. Even in the climactic scene, in which the hero typically embroiders the crowning line with mocking bravado, Mr. Freeman plays it close to the vest. He shows the kind of politesse and modesty not endemic to genre pictures. At 63, he is in fighting trim; he looks great, with tufts of gray peeking through on his temples and around his full hairline. It's invigorating to see an African-American actor of his age -- a man who probably spent his youth waiting around for Sidney Poitier to turn down work -- take the screen and hold it through sheer force of talent and underplayed concentration.
Still, he is wasted in this impersonal, barely ept thriller. Sadder still, it was directed by Lee Tamahori, whose fresh "Once Were Warriors" was all insolent temperament. Shackled to this by-the-numbers picture, all he can do is keep things in focus. But in addition to Mr. Freeman, "Along Came a Spider" is full of talents -- Ms. Potter, Mr. Wincott, with his eloquent croak of a voice -- sorely underused.
The film has one good scene, in which Soneji makes a crack using the old United Negro College Fund motto, and Cross's face is creased by a rueful smile. Mr. Tamahori's penchant for using multiple actors to build tension in the same shot is utilized here. (It's also the only acknowledgment of African-Americans in a movie set in the Washington area.) Otherwise, the closest the movie comes to inventiveness is to end in a barn instead of a warehouse.
"Along Came a Spider" is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian) for some seamy and explicit dialogue and the kind of gunplay and violence standard in the genre.

ALONG CAME A SPIDER

Directed by Lee Tamahori; written by Marc Moss, based on the novel by James Patterson; director of photography, Matthew F. Leonetti; edited by Neil Travis; music by Jerry Goldsmith; production designer, Ida Random; produced by David Brown and Joe Wizan; released by Paramount Pictures. Running time: 115 minutes. This film is rated R.

WITH: Morgan Freeman (Alex Cross), Monica Potter (Jezzie Flannigan), Michael Wincott (Gary Soneji), Penelope Ann Miller (Lauren Rose), Michael Moriarty (Senator Hank Rose), Anna Maria Horsford (Vickie) and Dylan Baker (McArthur).

GRAPHIC: Photo: Morgan Freeman, seated, in Lee Tamahori's "Along Came a Spider." (Joe Lederer/Paramount Pictures) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); FORENSICS (90%); FILM (90%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (86%); LITERATURE GENRES (76%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (74%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (74%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (70%); COMPUTER GRAPHICS (70%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (69%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (50%) MOTION PICTURES; REVIEWS 

PERSON: JAMES PATTERSON (58%) TAMAHORI, LEE; MITCHELL, ELVIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (50%)

TITLE: ALONG CAME A SPIDER (MOVIE) 

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2001 



163 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1821 words

HEADLINE: ARCHITECTURE REVIEW; 
Instant Inspiration: Just Add Water

BYLINE:  By HERBERT MUSCHAMP 

 BODY:
THIS review ought to come with scent strips for sampling an array of fresh aquatic fragrances. Swiss Lake. Old Salt. Seascape Spray. River Bouquet. Eau de l'Eau. Or just take this paper down to the river and imagine some of the architectural visions that could take shape there. "Architecture + Water," a new exhibition at the Van Alen Institute in Chelsea, presents five sparkling projects for sites related to water use. As New York lurches fitfully forward to a renewed waterfront, here are some alternatives to Chelsea Piers, retrograde esplanades and luxury housing by Richard Meier. These five visions are actually being built.
 Infrastructure projects can be appreciated for the power of their engineering, as with the George Washington Bridge, or they can provide opportunities for artistic expression. The works on view here fall into the second category. They are presented within a crisp and informative installation designed by the show's curators, Paul Lewis, David Lewis and Marc Tsurumaki of Lewis.Tsurumaki.Lewis in Manhattan. Historical antecedents for these new works are depicted on a photographic frieze running through the galleries. 
 The Lake Whitney Water Treatment Plant in Hamden, Conn., is perhaps the most poetically expressive project of the five. Designed by Steven Holl and Michael Van Valkenburgh, the plant was conceived as a destination attraction for schoolchildren and others who wish to contemplate our evolving relationship to nature. 
The plant's central feature is a metallic shed whose curving lines, truncated at either end, suggest a segment of river frozen in midflow. The image evokes transition, from one place or condition to another, almost in the manner of 18th-century architecture parlante. Ledoux's 1773-79 design for a riverkeeper's house comes to mind. Like that visionary project, Mr. Holl draws on classical precedent. He invariably derives proportions from the Golden Section. Yet his forms assume the Romantic suppleness of organic design.
Mr. Holl's design process has a natural affinity with the function of this project. We might call his studio a Watercolor Treatment Plant. His interiors especially are developed in painted sketches of perspectival space. Typically the space curves off toward the horizon line, where the curvature of ceiling and wall merge.
This personal method of working produces public spaces that are gentle but far from neutral, and I anticipate that this will be one of Mr. Holl's finest. He has suppressed the urge to adorn the structure with stylized representations of the Golden Section, a mannerism that was never needed to appreciate the rigor underlying his approach.
Mr. Van Valkenburgh is a splashy form maker but not a sophisticated thinker. Here he has made a few more of those outdoor rooms he has created in the past, most notably for the sculpture garden at the Walker Art Center in Minneapolis. Six gardens represent different stages in the filtration process. The design is adequate for a "machine in the garden" approach, but I'm not confident that this approach is the right one for an era that needs to be made more fully conscious of the degree to which our machines have degraded our gardens. The grid composition, after all, derives from an abstract spatial system that detached people from nature. Is this the time and place to reaffirm that system?
Whether we prefer bungee jumping or architecture, there is a philosophical value to taking risks: we gain a sense of reality less compromised by fear. The International Port Terminal now under construction in Yokohama, Japan, looks as if it were designed to compensate for the tameness of contemporary ocean travel. This is architecture without stabilizer fins. Docked beside its warped, rolling surfaces, cruise ships resemble lifeboats. Save my baby!
The $100 million project has been designed by Farshid Moussavi and Alejandro Zaero-Polo of Foreign Office Architects in London. Their plan was chosen from more than 700 entries in an international competition in 1995. Scheduled for completion next year, the terminal will sit atop an eight-acre pier in Yokohama Bay. The interior will contain the usual array of terminal functions: parking, check-in desks, passenger lounges. The roof deck, however, has been designed as a public marine park.
The roof is contoured like a landscape. Devoid of symmetry and rectangularity, it is formed from interlocking steel plates into low, hill-like contours that resemble golf course terrain. There are "meadows" sprouting beach umbrellas and an area for art shows; all eight acres look like a jogger's paradise. The architects assert that the contours are derived from the flow of people through the terminal to various destinations. They express circulation rather than structure, in other words. Personally, I would want to go on a strict calcium diet before venturing up on the roof. Some cardio-vascular training might be useful, too. No doubt it it will be available on site. Disembarking passengers can work off their indulgent lapses at midnight buffets.
The simple geometry of Four Villas, a prototype housing development for the Dutch town of Ypenburg, belies the project's rich social, historical and environmental content. Designed by the Rotterdam firm MVRDV, the villas are part of a nationwide effort to rethink the traditional relationship between the Netherlands and the sea. They are also a social experiment that attempts a new integration of public and private space.
Students of early Soviet utopian architecture will recognize the villas as descendants of the Cloud Pressers proposed by Constructivist architects in the 1920's. Low-rise, horizontal skyscrapers, if that is imaginable, the Cloud Pressers used technology's conquest of gravity to signify the revolution's victory over oppression. It is peculiar to see these Communist forms recycled as seaside villas. But the design introduces a socialist element by using the ground plane for public recreation. This is a novel variation on Le Corbusier's vision of towers in a park. He is recalled, too, in the design of the rooftop as usable space.
The villas are two-storied. The lower level, sandwiched between concrete slabs, contains four shoe-box-shaped apartments, with glass walls and flexible living arrangements. Each apartment has a private patio on the level above. The concrete columns supporting the units contain an elevator and service core.
The villas are built on marshland. A network of wooden decks above the high-water line has been conceived as an urban park. To American eyes this configuration may suggest glaring discrepancies in social hierarchy: privileged people above, hoi polloi below. One must bear in mind, however, that in the Netherlands any usable space is a luxury. This two-tiered approach is simply a compressed version of the conventional arrangement at American beach resorts, where private cottages look out over public beaches.
Blackfriars Bridge Station in London, designed by Alsop Architects, turns transitional space into place. A high-tech design featuring an undulating aluminum roof, the project recycles a redundant Thames railway bridge as the support structure for a new station. This is great architecture, in the British tradition of inspired engineering. It also points up the shallowness of American efforts to create a sense of place with appeals to comfort and reassurance. Cities are layerings of techniques, most of them obsolete. Sense of place emanates from the incongruity of the layers. The new station is essentially a parabuilding, built atop brick piers of period style. Style itself is a technique, a way of differentiating time.
Maximum Wow Factor is attained with Diller & Scofidio's Blur Building, the much-anticipated theme building for the Swiss Expo to be held next year in Yverson-les-Bains. Much has been written in recent years about the "Bilbao effect," the increasing frequency with which cities, especially in Europe, are calling on architects to revitalize local cultures and economies. The Blur Building is both a critical reflection on this phenomenon and a strong illustration of it.
It is a building about becoming a building, about imminence and immanence, an architecture of coming attractions that never arrive. Approached by pier from the shoreline, the Blur hovers over Lake Neuchatel, manufactured from its water. It consists of a cloud of mist formed by 12,500 spray nozzles mounted on an immense tensegrity structure of steel cables and rods. Four columns planted in the lake bed support the structure. Computers modify the spray's strength according to wind conditions. At night the blur becomes a screen for projected images.
Visitors will don plastic raincoats called Brain Coats: they have been customized with sensors and transmitters that respond to information coded according to questionnaires. If you meet your match in the fog, the coats will blush pink or red. Not a match? They turn bilious green. Then the two (or more) of you can repair to the Water Bar, a cocktail lounge where you can obtain glacier or bottled spring water mixed with tap water from cities around the globe. How's that for breaking the ice?
The point of this show is that architecture -- the individual building -- has an important role to play in the planning of larger urban projects. In New York we are accustomed to thinking of "the emerald necklace" of conventional parks, with trees and lawns, as most or even the only desirable option for waterfront use. There are other ways to bring people into relationship to the natural environment. The emerald necklace is attractive, but it perpetuates the use of nature as a scenic device. There are other kinds of scenery.
It's said to be bad luck to toast with water, so I will offer just a bow to the Van Alen Institute. Not just for producing this refreshing show, but for a record of dedication to architecture that is unparalleled in our city.
Named for William Van Alen, architect of the Chrysler Building, it is a small operation on the sixth floor of a Chelsea loft building. The organization's limited financing and gallery space do not permit blast-out panoramic survey shows like those presented at the Museum of Modern Art, the Cooper-Hewitt or the Canadian Center for Architecture in Montreal. Nonetheless, under the direction of Ray Gastil since 1995, Van Alen has become the nation's premier showcase for architecture in the public sphere.
At a time of shriveling support for investment in urban infrastructure and other public works, Van Alen has kept the faith. In more enlightened times, the talent and ideas displayed here would be seized upon by the Economic Development Corporation, the Department of City Planning, the Port Authority, the Empire State Development Corporation and other agencies with political clout. Van Alen is now poised to take a more active role in building public consensus for the values it represents.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Lake Whitney Water Treatment Plant in Hamden, Conn., by Steven Holl and Michael Van Valkenburgh, a place to contemplate nature. (Steven Holl Architects); The port terminal being built in Yokohama, Japan, designed by Farshid Moussavi and Alejandro Zaero-Polo. (Foreign Office Architects)(pg. E36); Cloud of mist: Two images of the Blur Building, designed by Diller & Scofidio for next year's Swiss Expo. (Photographs from Diller & Scofidio)(pg. E33) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENGINEERING (77%); SCULPTURE (77%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (76%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); EXHIBITIONS (76%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (76%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (71%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (69%); WATER QUALITY (65%); INFRASTRUCTURE (56%); CHILDREN (51%) ARCHITECTURE; REVIEWS 

ORGANIZATION: VAN ALEN INSTITUTE 

PERSON: MUSCHAMP, HERBERT 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (50%) NEW YORK, USA (72%); MINNESOTA, USA (64%) JAPAN (74%); UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2001 



164 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 133 words

HEADLINE: Better Pay for Lawyers 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re "A Destructive Court Protest" (editorial, April 3): 
 You criticize court-assigned lawyers who are refusing new assignments. The low rate paid by New York State for court-assigned lawyers has resulted in many competent lawyers' refusing to participate in the assigned counsel plan. 
Those lawyers who remain are required to assume enormous caseloads, with some reportedly handling as many as 150 cases. 
These caseloads are threatening the ability of court-assigned lawyers to fulfill their legal and ethical obligation to render effective assistance to their clients.
By refusing additional assignments, these dedicated lawyers are acting against their own economic self-interest for the sake of their clients.

SCOTT B. TULMAN
Pres., New York Criminal Bar Assn.
New York, April 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC DEFENDERS (91%); LAWYERS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LEGAL AID (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); ETHICS (67%) LEGAL AID FOR THE POOR; WAGES AND SALARIES 

PERSON: TULMAN, SCOTT B 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2001 



165 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 407 words

HEADLINE: Job Reductions by Companies Soared Last Month 

BYLINE:  By Reuters 

 BODY:
Job cuts announced by United States companies soared in March to almost triple the level a year earlier, the fourth consecutive month that the total has exceeded 100,000, a research group said yesterday.
 A government report issued yesterday said that the number of Americans signing up for first-time jobless benefits rose last week to its highest level in more than two years, while the number who have already claimed a week of benefits stands at levels not seen in three years. 
 In a report that signals employers are losing confidence in the slowing economy, the outplacement firm Challenger, Gray & Christmas said American companies announced 162,867 layoffs in March, up from 55,783 in March 2000, when the economy was roaring ahead at full speed. 
The number of job cuts last month was the highest since the survey began in 1993. The latest layoffs were up 60 percent from 101,731 in February.
The report came ahead of today's jobs report for March, which is expected to show an increase in the unemployment rate to 4.3 percent from 4.2 percent in February, according to economists' forecasts.
Wall Street analysts and Federal Reserve policy makers have noted a frequent disparity between announcements of job losses and actual cuts in payrolls. Companies may announce significantly more jobs cuts than they actually put into practice, and there is usually a lag time after announcements are made.
The Challenger report said 406,806 job cuts were announced in the first quarter of 2001, a rise of 187 percent from the first quarter of 2000.
Initial claims for state unemployment insurance benefits rose to 383,000 in the week ended March 31 from a revised 365,000 in the previous week to stand at the highest level since 384,000 in the week ended July 4, 1998, the Labor Department said.
The number of new claims was higher than the private economists' forecast of 372,000.
The government originally reported new claims at 362,000 in the week ended March 24.
In recent weeks the number of people filing continued claims -- those who have already claimed a week of benefits -- rose to levels last seen on Jan. 4, 1997, when it stood at 2,558,000.
In the March 24 week, the latest week for which data are available, continued claims fell to 2,492,000 from a revised 2,520,000.
The closely watched four-week moving average of claims, which irons out weekly fluctuations, rose to 377,750 in the week ended March 31 from 375,500 the previous week. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (79%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (79%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (75%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (67%) LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; UNEMPLOYMENT; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE 

COMPANY: CHALLENGER GRAY & CHRISTMAS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: CHALLENGER GRAY & CHRISTMAS; LABOR DEPARTMENT 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2001 



166 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING -- ADDENDA; 
A new Web site offers everything you wanted to know about brands in the Internet age.

BYLINE:  By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:
LEADING brand identity consulting agency is putting up the equivalent of a corporate calling card in cyberspace. 
 Interbrand in New York, owned by the Omnicom Group, is introducing Brandchannel.com, which is being described as an online international exchange on the subject of branding. The Web site (www.brandchannel.com) offers free content that includes articles on topics like managing brands during a recession, reading lists, job information, profiles of brands familiar and otherwise, a section that encourages "point-counterpoint" debate on subjects like corporate ethics, academic papers, trivia quizzes and even a schedule of industry conferences. 
 Imagine. If everyone consults the schedule, there may come a time when important advertising events aren't all held on the same day.
The site is indicative of the efforts being made by Madison Avenue to explore using online media for its own business purposes in addition to helping marketers sell goods and services. There are Web sites that offer assistance with agency reviews, examples of campaigns from around the world and databases of commercial directors and production companies.
Then, too, there are sites like www.MarketingHumor.com by the Excelsis Group in Wilmette, Ill., a consulting company specializing in strategic marketing and managing customer relationships. There is satirical content like a mock Marketing Hall of Fame and Shame, plus more serious matter like a discussion group and research tools.
In other words, to paraphrase an old slogan, the interactive media may not be just for clients anymore.
"The advent of the Internet has created new avenues for reaching people," said Charles E. Brymer, who is chairman at Brandchannel and chief executive at Interbrand, which has more than 1,000 employees in 18 countries working for advertisers like Deutsche Telekom, I.B.M., Procter & Gamble and Sony.
"The goal is to encourage people in our industry to debate, to test new ideas, to challenge each other," he added, "as well as to enable them to become better at what they do."
Brandchannel was under development for more than a year, Mr. Brymer said, adding that Interbrand plans to spend a sum he estimated at less than a million dollars annually to keep it up and running. There are seven employees working at Brandchannel, led by Robin Rusch, who serves as managing editor while continuing as director for the dot-com department at Interbrand.
"We're starting with a broad audience in mind," Ms. Rusch said, "everyone from students and professors to vice presidents of marketing and C.E.O.'s at the Fortune 500."
Ms. Rusch praised Interbrand for deciding to "stick with" Brandchannel at a time when "there are lots of cuts at dot-coms and other Web sites."
"It's an investment worth making," she added, "and we hope it will continue to grow and change, depending on what works and what doesn't."
For all the intended benefits of Brandchannel, of course it also doubles as a promotional vehicle for Interbrand.
"It isn't all altruistic," Mr. Brymer acknowledged. "The Interbrand name is associated with it," primarily through mentions on the home page that Brandchannel is "produced by Interbrand." There is also a button that can be clicked to provide more information about Interbrand's operations; that section is separated from the rest of the content.
"I try to maintain an editorial distance," Ms. Rusch said. "We want to be comprehensive."
Asked whether competitors of Interbrand have been checking out Brandchannel, Ms. Rusch replied, "Not only do we have them looking at it, we have them signing up," at a section of the site where visitors can register for free weekly e-mail updates.
As Brandchannel evolves, she added, she wants to add elements like a "brand glossary," and "we also want to do surveys."
Ms. Rusch said she also hoped to add additional content in foreign languages to complement links to such material now on the site. One of her favorites, found under the Features section of Brandchannel, is a Dutch Web site called Brand Dating (www.branddating.nl), which enables visitors to "put in your favorite brands, and you're matched with a date."
"Maybe sometimes romance comes down to agreeing or not agreeing on favorite types of washing powder," Ms. Rusch said, laughing. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRANDING (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); WEB SITES (90%); BRAND EQUITY (89%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (77%); MARKETING STRATEGY (77%); CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIP MANAGEMENT (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (73%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); BUSINESS ETHICS (73%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (72%); ETHICS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%) MARKETING AND MERCHANDISING; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: OMNICOM GROUP INC (93%); DEUTSCHE TELEKOM AG (58%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERBRAND; OMNICOM GROUP; BRANDCHANNEL.COM 

TICKER: OMC (NYSE) (93%); DTE (FRA) (58%); DTE (BIT) (58%); PGP (PAR) (53%); PG (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (93%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (93%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (93%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (58%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (53%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (53%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (53%)

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART 

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2001 



167 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 970 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Big Rally on Wall St. Sends Dow Up 4.2%; Nasdaq Soars 8.9%

BYLINE:  By ALEX BERENSON 

 BODY:
Minor news from Dell Computer spurred a major rally on Wall Street yesterday as the Dow Jones industrial average gained more than 400 points and the Nasdaq composite index posted its third-largest percentage gain ever.
 Yesterday's action provided some relief for investors whose portfolios have been ravaged by months of declines. But without new evidence that the United States economy is improving, few analysts or money managers were ready to predict the gains would last. In fact, they noted that some of the strongest single days ever for the Nasdaq have come during its rout of the last year. 
 In headier times, Dell's statement would hardly have caused a stir. The company, which makes computer systems, said after the market closed on Wednesday that its sales and profit for the quarter that ends April 30 would match analysts' lowered estimates. 
But after a stream of bad news from technology companies like Cisco Systems and Oracle, Dell's announcement gave investors reason to hope that the worst of the earnings news might be over, money managers said. That prompted buying by traders who had been betting heavily that stock prices would decline. Having borrowed stocks and sold them short, they bought stocks to cover some of their "short" positions.
"Dell ended up alluding to the idea that things were stabilizing," said Michael Manns, senior portfolio manager of the $3 billion AXP mutual fund. "The market was so oversold that any inkling of good news was enough to spur a rally."
Investors were ready to buy as soon as trading began yesterday, with all the major market indexes posting strong gains within minutes of the opening bell on the New York Stock Exchange. By noon, the Nasdaq composite index had risen almost 6 percent, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index had gained more than 2.5 percent.
Those gains held until the last hour of trading, when another wave of buying pushed stocks higher still. By the close, the Nasdaq had gained 146.20 points, or 8.9 percent, to 1,785. The S.& P. 500 rose 48.19 points, or 4.4 percent, to 1,151.44, while the Dow Jones industrial average jumped 402.63 points, or 4.2 percent, to 9,918.05.
Technology stocks were the biggest winners. Dell gained $3, to $25.19, while Oracle rose $1.26, to $14.74. Communications equipment companies, which have been pummeled since the fall, also moved higher, with Cisco Systems rising $1.25, to $14.93, and Lucent Technologies gaining $1.19, to $7.94.
But the rally was not confined to technology. General Electric gained $2.50, to $42.10, while Citigroup advanced $2.30, to $45, and Morgan Stanley Dean Witter soared $7.14, to $52.40.
Even with yesterday's rally, the Nasdaq composite index and the S.& P. 500-stock index are down for the week, and the Nasdaq is down almost 28 percent so far this year and more than 64 percent from its peak in March 2000. Yet 9 of the 10 biggest percentage gains on the Nasdaq have come during the market rout. Its biggest, 14 percent, came on Jan. 3 after the Federal Reserve surprised investors by cutting interest rates.
The pattern left some analysts wary of reading too much into yesterday's gains. The rally "doesn't tell you anything about the economic climate in America," said Stephen Roach, chief economist at Morgan Stanley. "It just tells you how negative the stock market was. Everybody had gotten short, and people had made a lot of money betting that the stock market would go down."
Mr. Roach said he remained pessimistic about economic growth. He noted that new unemployment claims rose by 18,000, to 383,000, for the week ended March 31, more than had been expected.
"The state of the economy is still crummy," he said. "It's going to be very hard to re-energize the economy and return to the growth rates of the last five years."
But Abby Joseph Cohen, chief United States strategist for Goldman, Sachs, said investors should not overreact to the jobless claims. "We're probably doing ourselves a disservice by jumping on each data point and trying to analyze it," Ms. Cohen said. The Goldman, Sachs economists expect the economy to grow as much as 2 percent this year.
"The economy has slowed, but the consumer sector has been stronger than people feared," Ms. Cohen said.
In addition, selling by individual investors who must raise cash to pay large capital-gains tax bills from 2000 has weighed on stocks, she said. With only a few days left before the April 15 tax deadline, that selling is abating, she said. Now, with many stocks off sharply from their highs, and interest rates and inflation low, the S.& P. 500 is undervalued and poised to move higher, she added.
Byron Wien, director of investment strategy at Morgan Stanley, agreed with Ms. Cohen's assessment of economic fundamentals. But he said he did not think the market had bottomed. 
"I look for investor despair, because roaring bull markets usually erupt from despondency," he said. "What bothers me is this market is yearning for good news, and when it got a piece of it, it responded. When the market gives up on good news, that's when we're near the bottom."
Henry Berghoef, manager of the $3 billion Oakmark Select fund, offered perhaps the sagest advice of all.
"I would advise investors to pay little attention to day-to-day swings in the market," Mr. Berghoef said. "They're just not meaningful. I don't have any better idea why it is up 10 percent today than why it was down 10 percent the first three days of the week."
Treasury bond prices fell as equities rose yesterday. The 10-year Treasury note fell 14/32 , to a price of 100 7/32 . The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 4.97 percent from 4.91 percent on Wednesday.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond fell 24/32 , to 97 25/32 . The bond's yield rose to 5.53 percent from 5.48 percent on Wednesday.

GRAPHIC: Photo: William Matthews, a stockbroker, closed out his books after the closing bell yesterday on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange. (Associated Press)(pg. C5) Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C5) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C5) Chart: "Tax-Exempt Yields"Chart shows average yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, plotted weekly since December.(Source: The Bond Buyer)(pg. C5) Chart: "Nasdaq's Best Days"The Nasdaq composite index had its third best one-day gain ever yesterday. Nine of the top 10 days in Nasdaq history have occurred in the last 12 months. Jan. 3, 2001CLOSE: 2,616.69CHANGE: +14.17 Dec. 5, 2000CLOSE: 2,889.80CHANGE: +10.48 YesterdayCLOSE: 1,785.00CHANGE: + 8.92 May 30, 2000CLOSE: 3,459.48CHANGE: + 7.94 Oct. 13, 2000CLOSE: 3,316.77CHANGE: + 7.87 Oct. 19, 2000CLOSE: 3,418.60CHANGE: + 7.79 Dec. 22, 2000CLOSE: 2,517.02CHANGE: + 7.56 Oct. 21, 1987CLOSE: 351.86CHANGE: + 7.34 April 18, 2000CLOSE: 3,793.57CHANGE: + 7.19 April 25, 2000CLOSE: 3,711.23CHANGE: + 6.57(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); BONDS (91%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); MUTUAL FUNDS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (68%); COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (68%); INTEREST RATES (59%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES 

COMPANY: ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (61%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (50%); MORGAN STANLEY (50%)

TICKER: ALU (PAR) (61%); ALU (NYSE) (61%); ALU (BIT) (61%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (56%); GNE (PAR) (50%); GEC (LSE) (50%); GE (SWX) (50%); GE (NYSE) (50%); MS (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (61%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (61%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (61%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%)

PERSON: BERENSON, ALEX 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2001 



168 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 2659 words

PERSON: John B. Oakes 

HEADLINE: John B. Oakes, Impassioned Editorial Page Voice of The Times, Dies at 87 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT D. McFADDEN 

 BODY:
John B. Oakes, who infused the opinion pages of The New York Times with his crisp reasoning, passionate convictions and liberal political views for more than 40 years, 15 of them as editor of the editorial page, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 87 and lived in Manhattan and Martha's Vineyard, Mass.
 Mr. Oakes had been hospitalized since suffering a stroke on March 22. 
 In a tumultuous era of cold war nuclear perils and crises over civil rights, the Vietnam War and the Watergate scandals, Mr. Oakes was a powerful, largely anonymous voice of partisan rectitude on the editorial page of The Times -- as an editorial writer starting in 1949, then as the editor from 1961 to 1976. 
After his retirement in 1978, Mr. Oakes continued until 1993 to write many articles on environmentalism and other subjects for The Times's Op-Ed page, having overseen its creation in 1970 as a forum for distinguished outside writers as well as the paper's own columnists.
The recipient of many awards, he was widely praised for personal integrity and for what admirers called the courage of his editorials in defense of civil liberties, human rights, the environment and an engaged foreign policy, particularly their early opposition to the war in Vietnam.
But he was replaced after 15 years by a publisher, his cousin Arthur Ochs Sulzberger, who had grown uncomfortable with an editorial page that he viewed as strident, predictably liberal and antibusiness and generally out of step with his own thinking.
In contrast to the newspaper's often raucous third-floor newsroom on 43rd Street in Manhattan, with its banks of jangling telephones and its editors and reporters rushing against deadlines, life in the editorial page offices was almost monastic, a hushed warren of collegial scholarship and civility tucked behind a serene 10th-floor library.
By birth, intellect and iconoclastic temperament, Mr. Oakes seemed cast for his role in that privileged cloister. He was a member of the Ochs-Sulzberger family, which had controlled The Times throughout the 20th century, a Princeton and Rhodes scholar, a decorated counterintelligence officer in World War II, and a man of deep convictions and wide interests that included a lifelong commitment to environmental causes.
For much of the century, Times editorials had lacked an authoritative voice. Many tried to balance one view with another in a guarded melange that sounded more like the advice of the family doctor than the boom of civic conscience. Adolph S. Ochs, the patriarch of the family that controlled The Times and built its reputation on the objectivity of its news coverage, once considered dropping editorials altogether because he thought they compromised the image of an impartial newspaper and sometimes alienated readers and advertisers.
After Mr. Oakes assumed command in 1961, the editorial page dropped its cautious drift and became a stern liberal bellows on most social and economic questions, with a special fervor for environmental causes, civil rights and negotiations to control nuclear weapons and ease cold war tensions.
In 1965, just months after the election of Lyndon B. Johnson, who had fashioned himself the peace candidate, it became clear that the United States was embarking on a new military buildup in Vietnam.
As early as Feb. 25, The Times began to challenge American escalation of the war and called for peace talks. "The notion that to negotiate would be a defeat for the United States has become one of the most pernicious misapprehensions of the conflict," a Times editorial declared. "An agreement to negotiate surrenders nothing."
Harrison E. Salisbury, a former foreign correspondent and a colleague of Mr. Oakes's, recalled in his 1980 history of The Times, "Without Fear or Favor," that Mr. Oakes was "a strongly patriotic man" who had served with distinction in World War II and "did not come easily to his antiwar position."
Preliminary peace talks did not begin until 1968, but The Times's growing opposition to the war "heartened those voices across the country (very few at first and largely confined to academic circles) that began to speak out against Vietnam," Mr. Salisbury wrote. "By 1973, when the war finally stumbled to a conclusion, The Times's view had become commonplace."
During the Watergate scandal, The Times was an early advocate of President Richard M. Nixon's resignation. And long before the New York City fiscal crisis broke in 1975, the paper raised alarms about reckless municipal spending, although its editorials endorsed John V. Lindsay for mayor and helped elect the biggest spender of all.
The Times also pleaded for equal rights for minorities, women and gays, supported abortion rights and endorsed liberal political candidates, including George S. McGovern for president in 1972. There were other Oakes themes -- gun control, financing for the arts, constitutional and civil rights, environmental causes, and a harsh view of big business and profit motives.
It took nine years for Mr. Oakes's idea of a Times Op-Ed page to germinate. In 1961, before he became editor, a friend sent him a commentary that he much admired. It was too long to run as a letter to the editor, and The Times lacked a venue for such an outside contribution, which wound up in The New York Herald Tribune.
The term "op-ed" had been coined in the 1920's by Herbert Bayard Swope of The New York World for a page "opposite the editorials" that showcased that newspaper's cast of columnists. Mr. Oakes saw such a page more broadly -- as a potential forum for contributors from across the political spectrum, as well as columnists -- but the idea languished in debates over diverting the space from news or advertising, relocating obituaries that had long appeared opposite the editorials, and whom to place in charge of the page.
In 1970, Arthur Ochs Sulzberger, the publisher of The Times, cut off the debates and established an Op-Ed page that became a model for other newspapers worldwide. Overall control was awarded to Mr. Oakes, with Mr. Salisbury reporting to him as Op-Ed editor.

Elegance Under Pressure
Mr. Oakes -- Johnny to his friends -- was a carefully attired man with wavy hair that went gray in his 40's. He supervised a staff of 10 to 12 writers, editing most of their work personally as well as writing many editorials himself, often in elegant prose cast against deadline. On Nov. 22, 1963, the day President John F. Kennedy was assassinated, Mr. Oakes was visiting a college campus, but dictated his editorial by phone.
"The light of reason was momentarily extinguished with the crack of a rifle shot in Dallas yesterday," he declared. "But that light is, in reality, inextinguishable; and, with God's help, it will show the way to our country and our country's leaders as we mourn for John F. Kennedy in the darkening days ahead."
Under Mr. Oakes, the editorial board almost never met as a group to discuss what to write or what positions to take. Instead, the members had fields of interest or expertise, and Mr. Oakes met with them individually nearly every day to discuss ideas and outline editorial positions.
Peter Grose, an author on foreign policy who had been a foreign correspondent for The Times and was on the editorial board from 1972 to 1976, recalled Mr. Oakes as a courtly man whose quiet manner often masked passionate beliefs. He was always respectful of his colleagues' views, Mr. Grose said, and while board members generally shared his outlook, there were disagreements. "One fundamental dispute among the editorial writers had to do with the fact that John firmly believed that the page had to hit at its arguments day after day after day," Mr. Grose said. "Once we took a position on a subject, the power came in constant hammering at it. John was very insistent on this. There were always novel ways of making the same argument."
While Mr. Oakes and the board were nominally surrogates for the publisher, Arthur Ochs Sulzberger, they knew his attitudes and rarely had need to consult him. Thus, Mr. Oakes had wide latitude for a page read in Washington, New York and around the world by top government officials, opinion makers and leaders in business, religion, the arts and other fields.
But the tone of jabbing liberalism and the absence of any conservative counterweight (the columnist Arthur Krock had filled that role until his retirement in 1966) increasingly came to trouble the publisher.
In 1972, Mr. Sulzberger attended a charity dinner and found himself sitting next to William Safire, a former speechwriter for Richard M. Nixon. The two men hit it off, and without consulting Mr. Oakes -- and over Mr. Oakes's later vehement objections -- the publisher hired Mr. Safire as a columnist after the election.
There were other frictions in the next few years. "John was very liberal about everything," James P. Brown, a retired journalist who was a member of the editorial board from 1967 to 1976, recalled. "Even some of our kids thought we were too radical."
Some executives of The Times, including the publisher, also perceived an antibusiness tone to the page, at a time when there was concern about the paper's financial health.

Dissent Over an Endorsement
Thus it was both a tricky professional maneuver and a painful family decision when, in March 1976, Mr. Sulzberger decided the time had come for Mr. Oakes to step aside at the end of the year in favor of a rising star within The Times, Max Frankel. Resisting Mr. Oakes's entreaties to be allowed to remain for two more years until his 65th birthday, the publisher held firm.
For the most part, Mr. Sulzberger and Mr. Oakes had always thrashed out disagreements in private. But they quarreled publicly later that year when Mr. Oakes, on vacation, learned that the publisher had overruled his choice and insisted on an editorial endorsing Daniel Patrick Moynihan for the Senate nomination in the New York Democratic primary. Mr. Oakes, who had planned to endorse the outspoken Representative Bella S. Abzug, wrote an angry letter of dissent, intending it to be published beside the editorial. But again the publisher refused. Instead, the endorsement ran on Sept. 10, and Mr. Oakes was allowed to print a 40-word dissent the next day. Mr. Moynihan won the primary, defeating Ms. Abzug by barely 10,000 votes.
Mr. Frankel succeeded Mr. Oakes at the end of 1976, and went on 10 years later to become executive editor, serving until 1994.
Under Mr. Frankel, the tone and substance of editorials, and the composition and practices of the board, were changed. There were fewer, longer editorials; they were less fervent and more unpredictable, challenging liberal as well as conservative dogmas. He insisted on regular board meetings, not to take votes, but to air ideas and test arguments. While previous editorial writers had been men recruited from The Times's news staff, Mr. Frankel brought in outsiders from government and other fields, and the first woman to write editorials full time.
He also replaced most of the board members. "It was a traumatic experience for those guys," said Mr. Brown, one of those who resigned. Mr. Grose, who returned to the news staff as a correspondent, agreed. "Yes, there were a lot of hard feelings among some people."
After stepping down as editorial editor, Mr. Oakes was named a senior editor and senior vice president of The Times. He retired in 1978, but over the next 15 years continued writing for the Op-Ed page on environmental and other issues.
Mr. Oakes is survived by his wife, the former Margery Hartman, whom he married in 1945; three daughters, Andra N. Oakes, of Washington, Alison H. Oakes, of Glencoe, Ill., and Cynthia J. Oakes, of London; a son, John G. H. Oakes, of Manhattan; and seven grandchildren.
John Bertram Oakes was born on April 23, 1913, in Elkins Park, Pa., the son of Bertie Gans Ochs and George Washington Ochs, who was variously editor of The Philadelphia Public Ledger, editor of Current History magazine and an officer and director of The New York Times Company. As an expression of anti-German sentiment in 1917, the father legally changed the last name of his two sons to Oakes, and added the name to his own, later hyphenating it, Ochs-Oakes.
Although he was a younger brother of Adolph Ochs, who bought The Times in 1896, George Ochs-Oakes never shared major responsibility for the newspaper and did not become part of the dynastic succession of Times publishers. Adolph Ochs's successors were his son-in-law, Arthur Hays Sulzberger; his grandson-in-law, Orvil E. Dryfoos; his grandson, Arthur Ochs Sulzberger; and his great-grandson, Arthur Sulzberger Jr., the present publisher.
John Oakes attended Collegiate School in New York and the Lawrenceville School in New Jersey. In 1934, he graduated from Princeton, where he was elected to Phi Beta Kappa, was valedictorian and was voted "most brilliant" by his class. In 1935, he studied at the University of Dijon in France, and as a Rhodes scholar in 1936 earned two degrees from Oxford University in England.
Although he might have gone to work for The Times immediately, he decided to establish his journalistic credentials elsewhere. He became a reporter for The Trenton Times in 1936, and a year later joined The Washington Post, covering politics and features from 1937 to 1941.
From 1941 to 1946, he was in the Army, rising from private to major (and later lieutenant colonel in the Reserve) and serving in Europe in the infantry and the Office of Strategic Services, the forerunner of the Central Intelligence Agency. He was awarded the Bronze Star, the Order of the British Empire and the Croix de Guerre.

After the War, the Week in Review
After the war, Mr. Oakes joined The Times, serving as editor of the Week in Review from 1946 to 1949, when he joined the editorial board. For many years, while writing editorials, Mr. Oakes also wrote a monthly Times column on environmental issues, and from 1955 to 1962 served as a member of the Interior Department's advisory board on national parks.
Mr. Oakes was named editor of the editorial page on April 25, 1961, as part of a series of executive changes that included the retirement of Arthur Hays Sulzberger and the appointment of Mr. Dryfoos as publisher. Mr. Dryfoos died two years later, leaving Arthur Ochs Sulzberger at the helm through the rest of Mr. Oakes's tenure.
In the same year he was appointed, having spent almost a year in Africa and Europe, Mr. Oakes wrote "The Edge of Freedom," a book on the formulation of American policies toward the new nations of the sub-Sahara and the Soviet satellites in Eastern Europe. He contributed to several other books, including "Foundations of Freedom" (1958) and "Tomorrow's American" (1977).
In 1977 and 1978, Mr. Oakes was a visiting professor at the S. I. Newhouse School of Communications at Syracuse University. He also served on the faculty of the Salzburg Seminar on American Studies and lectured on journalism at many universities.
He was a trustee of Temple Emanu-El in Manhattan and of the Washington Journalism Center, and a member of the Society of Silurians, an organization of veteran journalists in the New York area.
His many journalistic honors included two George Polk Awards from Long Island University -- one in 1966 that cited "a brilliance, an intensity and a perceptiveness" that made the editorial page "the most vital and influential journalistic voice in America," and another last month for achievements throughout his career -- the 1970 Woodrow Wilson Award of Princeton University; and the Columbia-Catherwood Award for international journalism in 1960.
In 1976, he received an honorary doctorate from the City University of New York, and the Audubon Medal, the highest conservation award of the National Audubon Society. He also received awards from the Sierra Club and the Natural Resources Defense Council, which in 1993 established the annual John B. Oakes Award for Distinguished Environmental Journalism.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 17, 2001

 CORRECTION:
The obituary of John B. Oakes of The New York Times on April 6 referred incompletely to the women who wrote editorials for the paper before and during his time as editor of the editorial page. Soma Golden Behr, appointed to the editorial board in 1977 by Mr. Oakes's successor, Max Frankel, was the first to write editorials exclusively.
But Anne O'Hare McCormick had previously served on the board; Arthur Hays Sulzberger appointed her in 1936. She wrote feature articles on politics and foreign affairs along with editorials, and then became The Times's foreign affairs columnist. Ada Louise Huxtable was appointed by Mr. Oakes to his board in 1973; she also contributed architecture articles to the daily and Sunday papers.

GRAPHIC: Photo: John B. Oakes in 1966. Under his command from 1961 to 1976, the editorial page of The New York Times became a stern liberal bellows on social and economic issues. (Neal Boenzi/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); LIBERALISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WRITERS (90%); FAMILY (86%); COLD WAR (78%); MEN (78%); VIETNAM WAR (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); NEWS REPORTING (72%); FAMILY PRACTICE (72%); WORLD WAR II (71%); CIVIL RIGHTS (70%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (68%); FOREIGN POLICY (66%); STROKES (56%) DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK TIMES 

ARTHUR SULZBERGER JR (58%) OAKES, JOHN B; MCFADDEN, ROBERT D 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); VIET NAM (72%)

CATEGORY: News and News Media 

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2001 



169 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 249 words

HEADLINE: Fund Industry's Time of Turmoil 

 BODY:
The mutual fund industry set two unwelcome records last year: more funds shut down operations than ever, and more funds merged than ever.
 The figures are included in a forthcoming report from Wiesenberger/ Thomson Financial, a business based in Rockville, Md., that tracks the mutual fund industry. 
 The trends are a sign that for mutual fund companies, consistency is hard to find in increasingly volatile markets. Last year, of the 225 funds that were liquidated, about half were bond funds, a proportion that is bigger than usual, according to Ramy Shaalan, an analyst at Wiesenberger. But this year, bond funds have enjoyed a resurgence as investors sought shelter from the bear market in stocks, though bond funds may still suffer liquidations for some time.
"Liquidations are like interest rate cuts -- there's a three- to six-month lag," said Mr. Shaalan, adding that mutual funds that shut down or merged often took the action because they were not profitable unless they had assets of $25 million to $50 million. Some mergers are also an attempt by fund management companies to hide poorly performing funds.
Last year, 451 funds merged, topping the record of 409 in 1999, and the 225 fund liquidations topped the previous record of 222 in 1998. This year, however, could be much more difficult for the fund industry, considering the 182 fund liquidations already tallied in the first quarter. February was also the first month of net withdrawals from stock funds in more than two years. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (98%); BOND FUNDS (90%); BONDS (90%); CLOSINGS (90%); LIQUIDATIONS (90%); TRENDS (78%); MERGERS (78%); INTEREST RATES (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%) STOCKS AND BONDS; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); MUTUAL FUNDS; FINANCES; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS 

COMPANY: THOMSON FINANCIAL (91%)

ORGANIZATION: WIESENBERGER/THOMSON FINANCIAL 

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2001 



170 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs; 
Sorry About That

BYLINE:  By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

 BODY:
I would never do this myself, but if one wanted to be nasty, one could write a column with the following lead:
 "China says it wants an apology for the collision of the U.S. surveillance plane with a Chinese fighter jet, which resulted in the death of a Chinese pilot. Well, I say the Chinese are right. We should apologize. But why stop with the plane incident? We should apologize for being the market for $40 billion a year of China's exports. We should apologize for the fact that U.S. companies are among the largest foreign investors in China and have been instrumental in China's economic takeoff. We should apologize for the fact that 54,000 Chinese students study in the U.S. every year, more than any other nationality. We should apologize for the fact that the U.S. has shown restraint in weapons sales to Taiwan. We should apologize for the fact that the U.S. paved the way for China's entry into the World Trade Organization. Yes, we should apologize for all these things and promise to stop all of them immediately." 
 That would be the nasty approach. If I were trying to be a friend of China's, I would point out that China is behaving as if America were the only country with something to lose if this dogfight is not quickly resolved. China has said that either the U.S. accepts that the incident was all America's fault and apologizes, or the relationship will suffer and America will suffer. That's only half true. 
Yes, U.S. interests would suffer from a prolonged crisis with China. But China would suffer just as much. Let's start with the basics: The Chinese Communist Party has struck the following bargain with the Chinese people: You let us continue to rule, even though Communist ideology is no longer functional, and we will guarantee rising living standards. For the Communist leadership to fulfill its side of this bargain it needs a steady inflow of investment and technology from the U.S., and, even more important, it needs access to the U.S. market for China's exports. If China is seen as holding U.S. airmen hostage, the U.S. Congress will move to block everything from China's entry into the W.T.O. to its trade privileges in the U.S. to its possible hosting of the 2008 Olympics.
Moreover, it would be one thing for China to call for an immediate U.N. investigation, or a joint U.S.-Chinese investigation, into this collision -- which occurred in international airspace -- and if the U.S. is found responsible to demand compensation. No problem. But for China to insist that the U.S. apologize before it has debriefed its own pilots, analyzed the flight recorders or spoken to Chinese military officials, is another way of saying that the rule of law does not matter. All that matters is how China feels. Such brutish behavior, if sustained, will quietly prompt China's neighbors -- Japan, Korea, Taiwan and Vietnam -- to draw militarily even closer to the U.S., and that would be a big strategic loss for China.
Finally, it took America 10 years to rebuild a bipartisan consensus on China after the Tiananmen Square killings, and it could all be exploded by this incident. Since Tiananmen and the end of the cold war, there have been three American camps on China: those who wanted to contain a rising China, as we did Russia; those who believed we could tame China with economic engagement; and those -- who eventually became the bipartisan majority -- who believed U.S. policy toward China should be to build bridges where possible and draw red lines when necessary. If this current affair is not resolved soon, the U.S. consensus on China will explode and the advocates of containment will triumph.
The press is now yammering that this crisis is a test for America's new leader. That's true. But it's just as big a test for China's old leaders -- of whether they really understand the new world they're living in.
Guess what? America is not the only country enmeshed in today's global economy and globalization web. So is China. Secretary of State Colin Powell expressed "regret" about the loss of the Chinese pilot precisely to help those in China who don't want this affair to blow up relations with America. But China too has to behave in a way that enables its U.S. friends to sustain the relationship. China too has an enormous amount at stake in ending this crisis legally, quickly and quietly. Indeed, if one wanted to be nasty, one would say that China has a lot more at stake than the U.S. does. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (84%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (77%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (77%); FLIGHT RECORDERS (77%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (77%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); LIVING STANDARDS (74%); SURVEILLANCE & RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (65%); POLITICAL PARTIES (62%); TRENDS (62%); ARMED FORCES (60%); OLYMPICS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; MILITARY AIRCRAFT; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%)

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (58%) FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); TAIWAN (79%) CHINA; TIANANMEN SQUARE (BEIJING); BEIJING (CHINA)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2001 



171 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 521 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Telecom Start-Up Plans To Eliminate 2,000 Jobs
Winstar Communications, which provides telephone and Internet service to 32,000 business customers nationwide, said that it would eliminate 2,000 jobs, or 43 percent of its work force, and halt expansion of its network.
 During the economic slowdown, small carriers like Winstar have been buffeted by a struggle to raise money for expansion or even continued operations. And their weaknesses threaten to undermine even established communications equipment makers. Page C2. 

Bankruptcy Overhaul Is in Danger
A provision in five states that allows people to shield their homes from creditors is at the center of a debate that is threatening to derail a measure in Congress that would overhaul the nation's bankruptcy system. A1.

2 Companies to Sell Music on Yahoo
Sony Music and Universal Music said that they planned to make their catalogs of music available by subscription over Yahoo. The two music companies, which operate a joint venture called Duet, said they planned to start the service this summer, allowing users to listen to songs online or possibly download them onto their computers. Shares of Yahoo rose $2.75, or 22.6 percent, to $15.25. C4.

Big Board to Trade 3 Amex Funds
The New York Stock Exchange has decided to trade three exchange-traded funds that are listed on the American Stock Exchange. C5.

Standoff Worries U.S. Companies
While American companies insist that the dispute between the United States and China need not damage commercial ties, a few are starting to say that the impasse could spill over into trade issues if it is not resolved quickly. C3.

Two Lawyers Charged in Fraud Case
Two prominent lawyers were indicted on charges that they helped orchestrate an international stock fraud. C3.

Britain Reduces Interest Rates
The Bank of England lowered short-term interest rates by a quarter point to offset the effects of a slowdown in the United States economy and sharp declines in world stock markets. World Business, Section W.

U.A.W. President Defends Daimler
The president of the United Automobile Workers, Stephen P. Yokich, said that the 1998 merger of Chrysler with Daimler-Benz of Germany had saved Chrysler from extinction and that the union had a good working relationship with DaimlerChrysler. "There wouldn't be a Chrysler today if there wasn't a Daimler with a fatter purse than we have with Chrysler in Michigan," Mr. Yokich said at a rare news conference. C5.

G.O.P. Lacks Votes for Full Tax Cut
With final budget votes scheduled today, Republican leaders in the Senate conceded that they did not have the votes to pass President Bush's full $1.6 trillion tax cut. A1.

Governor Proposes Higher Rates
Gov. Gray Davis of California dropped his opposition to higher electricity rates, proposing increases of up to 46 percent for the largest users and warning that only aggressive conservation and increased generating capacity could solve the long-term problem. A12.

The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission has begun an inquiry into the disclosure of documents in a case that involves accusations of abuse in California's natural gas market. C5.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart shows Yahoo's stocks progress since last Thursday. Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 9,918.05 up 402.63Nasdaq composite -- 1,785.00 up 146.2010-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.97% up 0.06The euro -- $0.8973 down 0.0047The dollar -- 124.04 yen down 1.43 Graph: "TODAY" shows UnemploymentMarch figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +4.3% Consumer BorrowingFebruary figures due at 3 p.m. Eastern time.Expected: +9.5 billion

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); LEGISLATION (75%); COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (74%); TAX LAW (74%); SECURITIES TRADING (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (73%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (73%); MERGERS (72%); EXCHANGE TRADED FUNDS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (67%); INTEREST RATES (67%); INDICTMENTS (63%); CENTRAL BANKS (62%); UTILITY RATES (62%); TAX RELIEF (60%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (58%); GOVERNORS (55%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: YAHOO! INC (94%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (83%); GVC NETWORKS LLC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); BANK OF ENGLAND (53%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (54%)

TICKER: YHOO (NASDAQ) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (94%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (94%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (94%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (53%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (53%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2001 



172 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 925 words

HEADLINE: COLLISION WITH CHINA: BEIJING; 
U.S. Envoy Meets Chinese Foreign Minister as Negotations on Plane's Crew Continue

BYLINE:  By ERIK ECKHOLM 

DATELINE: BEIJING, Friday, April 6 

 BODY:
The American ambassador, Adm. Joseph W. Prueher, met with China's foreign minister this morning, in the latest in a series of negotiations aimed at securing the release of the 24 crew members of an American spy plane that made an emergency landing on Sunday on a southern Chinese island. 
 United States diplomats here said today that American representatives would be allowed to have a second meeting this afternoon with the crew members, who are being held incommunicado on Hainan Island, as the two governments searched for a face-saving compromise over China's demand for an open American apology. 
 The incident began when an American eavesdropping plane in international waters near China collided with a trailing Chinese jet. 
The Chinese jet went down and its pilot is presumed lost, and the damaged American plane made an emergency landing at a Chinese military airfield, which the Chinese call an illegal infringement. 
Thursday afternoon, in the first glimmer of progress toward resolving an increasingly emotional test of wills, a Foreign Ministry spokesman said the United States had taken "a step in the right direction" with Secretary of State Colin Powell's expressions of regret for the collision. 
But in public, Chinese officials mainly held to their frosty position. The spokesman, Sun Yuxi, also berated the United States for being "high-handed" and indicated that the American crew members could be visited again only after the United States adopted a more "cooperative approach."
Late in the night here, well after Mr. Sun made his comments, President Bush expressed his regrets for the incident and his deep concern over the fate of the lost Chinese pilot.
Today's 8 a.m. national television news broadcast did not mention Mr. Bush's gesture or the ongoing negotiations, instead describing international condemnation of the American position, but it may be that China's lumbering propaganda apparatus did not have time to issue new instructions to the media. 
In the early hours of Wednesday morning, an American military attache and a consular officer were allowed a meeting with the crew in Hainan. But American officials complain that they have not had a chance to debrief crew members on Sunday's events, even as China demands that the United States accept full responsibility for the collision and unauthorized landing. 
"If the United States takes a cooperative approach, we will consider another visit," Mr. Sun said on Thursday. "The United States should admit its mistakes, apologize and explain to the Chinese people. This is the first step."
Mr. Sun also said it was "natural" for the Chinese authorities to interrogate the crew members about the incident because they are the "culprits" who caused it by flying recklessly and then entering Chinese territory without seeking permission.
Both governments say they hope to resolve the incident soon and prevent it from further corroding relations. 
American officials appear to be privately resigned to losing whatever secrets and technology on the plane that the crew could not destroy before landing, but the Chinese leaders are aware that tempers in Washington are flaring over the detention of the crew.
President Jiang Zemin and other leaders have played a political balancing act. They have prohibited anti-American demonstrations and stressed their continued desire for good relations with the United States. Yet, even if China's enemies use this incident to harm economic ties or the country's bid to play host to the 2008 Olympics, "nothing is more important than safeguarding the sovereignty and dignity of China," Mr. Sun said.
The leaders are giving vent to the anger many Chinese have expressed at the exposure of routine American spy flights near their shores, and the downing of a Chinese pilot. 
University officials around the country were gathered in meetings on Thursday to hear a directive from the Education Ministry instructing faculty and students to "stand fast at their posts to work and study and not take to the street." So far, groups from more than 50 universities and colleges have requested permission to demonstrate against the United States, the directive said, according to a person who saw it.
Mr. Sun repeated China's assertion that the midair collision occurred because the slow-moving American propeller plane swerved suddenly, running into a Chinese fighter that was cruising some 1,300 feet to the side. But he refused to provide evidence of that. 
Mr. Sun also sought to buttress China's contention that the American aircraft had entered Chinese territory in an illegal manner, no matter how urgent its plight. Pentagon experts say that they believe that the plane issued a standard "Mayday" alert and that by international custom it then had the right to make an emergency landing. 
The Chinese say the aircraft issued no distress signals or requests for permission to land, even though it had time and means to do so, and thus violated international and Chinese laws. 
"When the aircraft intruded into Chinese airspace, we did not receive any message from the U.S. side," Mr. Sun insisted. 
This, together with the charge that the American plane caused the crash with a reckless move, is the basis on which China says it is holding and investigating the crew. Several times, Chinese officials have said they will not release the crew until an investigation is completed. 
But at other times, government spokesmen have suggested that the crew's release will be rapid if the United States will bow to China's political and symbolic demands. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (89%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); ESPIONAGE (72%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (63%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MILITARY AIRCRAFT; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US 

PERSON: ECKHOLM, ERIK; PRUEHER, JOSEPH W (AMB) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (88%) SOUTH CHINA (94%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); HAINAN, CHINA (78%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%) CHINA; HAINAN ISLAND (CHINA)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2001 



173 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 353 words

HEADLINE: Mori Says He Will Quit Before Party Elections 

BYLINE:  By HOWARD W. FRENCH 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Friday, April 6 

 BODY:
Prime Minister Yoshiro Mori told his cabinet today that he was preparing to resign later this month, before the scheduled date of elections to choose a new leader for the governing Liberal Democratic Party.
 "I think it necessary to restore public trust in politics under a new government and deal with a mountain of issues at home and abroad. Therefore, I have decided to resign," he was quoted at a news conference as having said today. 
 On Thursday the Liberal Democratic Party announced a date of April 24 for the election of a new party president, which under Japan's parliamentary system is tantamount to choosing a new prime minister.
Mr. Mori's one-year tenure leading the country has been marked by a series of political gaffes and scandals. When the Japanese fishing research boat Ehime Maru was sunk on Feb. 9 after being struck by the United States submarine Greeneville, Mr. Mori continued to play golf for two hours after receiving the news.
Nine Japanese passengers including several teenagers died in the accident, which occurred off the coast of Hawaii.
Since then, Mr. Mori's standing in opinion polls has dropped to all-time lows, falling to as low as slightly more than 6 percent, according to one poll.
The announcement today came after weeks of increasingly direct hints that Mr. Mori would be resigning.
Leaders of the Liberal Democratic Party have recently urged the Prime Minister to step aside to allow the party to prepare for critical elections for the upper house of the Japanese Parliament in July.
The party has suffered repeated losses in recent elections and faces the prospect of losing its majority in Parliament in July.
The loss of its majority would bring an end to the party's almost continuous control of the government here since 1955.
In addition to Mr. Mori's political troubles, Japan has been saddled with a cycle of recessions, while unemployment stands near an all-time high. The Bush admininstration, like the Clinton administration, has urged Japan to dramatically reform its economy, but for much of Mr. Mori's tenure the country has been experiencing a leadership crisis. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); PRIME MINISTERS (91%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (91%); POLITICS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (78%); ETHICS (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); SCANDALS (74%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (52%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; PUBLIC OPINION; ETHICS 

PERSON: FRENCH, HOWARD W; MORI, YOSHIRO (PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (76%) HAWAII, USA (79%) JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2001 



174 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 999 words

HEADLINE: METRO BRIEFING 

BYLINE:  Compiled by Anthony Ramirez

 BODY:
NEW YORK

MANHATTAN: POLICE OFFICERS FACE SANCTIONS -- Police officials said yesterday that three more police officers faced discipline because they failed to help women who were molested after the National Puerto Rican Day Parade last June. The disciplinary charges, which were first reported yesterday in The Daily News, were filed in August but were not made public until this week, when several victims were subpoenaed to appear at administrative trials. In July, officials cited nine other officers for serious mistakes at the parade. Of those, four received letters of reprimand, two retired, two are awaiting trial and one received an unspecified discipline from his commander. Kevin Flynn (NYT)

MANHATTAN: H & R BLOCK CRITICIZED FOR LOANS -- The city's Department of Consumer Affairs said yesterday that H & R Block might have to pay more than $1 million in fines for 2,200 violations in which the company misrepresented its high-interest loans as quick refunds from the Internal Revenue Service. The loan, part of the company's "rapid refund" program, charges interest rates as high as 500 percent, and investigators posing as customers said they were encouraged to apply for the loan in 86 percent of their visits. Jane S. Hoffman, above, the commissioner of consumer affairs, called it "a rapid rip-off." H & R Block expressed disappointment that "any product confusion might exist."
 Hope Reeves (NYT) 

MANHATTAN: CUSTODIAN'S DISMISSAL SOUGHT -- Schools Chancellor Harold O. Levy said yesterday that he would seek to dismiss a custodian who used an estimated $57,000 in public-school money to pay his mortgage, credit card bills and taxes over three years, according to a report released by Edward F. Stancik, the city schools' special commissioner for investigation. The custodian, Steven J. McGuire, was removed from the School of the Future in Manhattan, Mr. Levy said. Mr. McGuire could not be reached for comment. Lynette Holloway (NYT)

MANHATTAN: TEACHERS' UNION HEAD RE-ELECTED -- New York City teachers have overwhelmingly re-elected Randi Weingarten as president of their union, the United Federation of Teachers, according to a preliminary tally released yesterday. Ms. Weingarten won 39,846 votes, or 76.6 percent of the total, according to the American Arbitration Association, which conducted the vote. Her main opponent, Michael Shulman, received 10,916 votes, or 21 percent. Mr. Shulman had accused Ms. Weingarten of failing to negotiate raises for the city's 80,000 teachers. Ms. Weingarten has demanded steep raises in negotiations with City Hall, but the two sides deadlocked last month. Abby Goodnough (NYT)

ROOSEVELT: SCHOOL CLOSED -- After a string of discipline problems at Roosevelt's combined junior and senior high school, including two false fire alarms and a bomb threat on Wednesday, the schools superintendent, Horace Williams, shut down the school yesterday and today, the school board said. The district is using the days to instruct teachers in regaining control of their classrooms, Mr. Williams said. Roosevelt Junior-Senior High School has been beset with problems for years, and the district, in Nassau County, is in danger of a state takeover.
Andy Newman (NYT)

MINEOLA: MAN KILLED IN GUN DISPUTE -- Jermaine Grant, 16, of Hempstead, was charged yesterday with second-degree murder in the shooting death of Paget Belle, 19, of Uniondale, the Nassau County police said. The two had argued over $100 Mr. Grant still owed after buying a .38-caliber handgun from Mr. Belle, Detective Sgt. Daniel Severin said. Mr. Belle was found on a Hempstead street Tuesday night fatally shot in the chest. The police said the victim and suspect were members of a local gang called the Outlaws.
 Hope Reeves (NYT)

NEW JERSEY

TRENTON: ANOTHER SETBACK FOR McCANN -- Gerald McCann, the former mayor of Jersey City who is seeking to return to his former office despite his 1992 removal for a federal fraud conviction, was dealt another blow yesterday. In a 3-to-2 ruling, the State Supreme Court upheld an appellate decision prohibiting Mr. McCann from running in the city's May 8 mayoral election. Mr. McCann declined to say whether he would appeal the latest ruling. Steve Strunsky (NYT)

NEWARK: PORT AUTHORITY CHIEF APPROVED -- The board of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey yesterday approved Neil D. Levin, 47, as the 80-year-old agency's 12th executive director. He succeeds Robert E. Boyle, who announced his resignation in December from the $185,000-a-year post. Mr. Levin, the former banking superintendent of New York State, was nominated for the post last week by Gov. George E. Pataki of New York. The board also moved forward with its planned $1 billion purchase of 242 PATH train cars and signal equipment. Ronald Smothers (NYT)

MONTCLAIR: FUGITIVE ARRESTED -- A fugitive accused of leading a gang of robbers that included two Brooklyn police officers was captured Wednesday night under a car near his girlfriend's apartment, the police said. The fugitive, Vere Padmore, was taken into custody by detectives after a chase through Montclair that involved police dogs, dozens of officers and a state police helicopter, authorities said. The police said Mr. Padmore had dressed as a woman at times during the months he was on the run from charges that he held up drug dealers, planned armed robberies and took part in a plot to kill a New York City detective. Alan Feuer (NYT)

CONNECTICUT

STAMFORD: SKAKEL TRIAL STAYS IN STAMFORD -- The trial of Michael Skakel, left, in the 1975 killing of his Greenwich neighbor Martha Moxley will be held in Stamford, a State Superior Court judge ruled yesterday, rejecting a request by state prosecutors to move the trial to Bridgeport. The state's attorneys handling the case are based in Bridgeport and had asked the judge, John F. Kavanewsky, to move the trial there. But the judge ruled that the prosecutors had failed to demonstrate any substantive legal reason for moving the trial.
 David M. Herszenhorn (NYT)

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); SUBPOENAS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (88%); TEACHER UNIONS (85%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PARADES & MARCHES (77%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); TAX AUTHORITIES (74%); CITIES (74%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); BOMBINGS (71%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (64%); HIGH SCHOOLS (64%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (64%); LABOR UNIONS (61%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: H & R BLOCK INC (56%); AMERICAN ARBITRATION ASSOCIATION (51%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%)

TICKER: HRB (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (56%); SIC7291 TAX RETURN PREPARATION SERVICES (56%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (51%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (51%) SIC2711 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2001 



175 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 87 words

HEADLINE: WORLD BUSINESS BRIEFING: EUROPE; 
NO SLOWDOWN IN EUROPE

BYLINE:  By Paul Meller 

 BODY:
The economies of the 12 nations adopting the euro currency are still growing moderately, not slowing down, according to new figures from Eurostat. Retail sales rose 2.3 percent in January from a year earlier, an increase from the 1.7 percent annual rate recorded in December; sales of household goods were especially strong. Revised fourth-quarter gross domestic product figures put overall growth at 0.7 percent from the previous quarter, well ahead of the United States, and 3 percent for the year.
 Paul Meller (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EURO (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); CURRENCIES (88%); TRENDS (88%); STATISTICS (88%); RETAILERS (87%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SALES; GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT 

ORGANIZATION: STATISTICAL OFFICE OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%) EUROPEAN UNION 

PERSON: MELLER, PAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (78%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2001 



176 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: The Big City; 
Conventional Business: A Warning

BYLINE:  By JOHN TIERNEY 

DATELINE: CHICAGO 

 BODY:
WHEN officials at the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center dream, they dream of McCormick Place in a week like this. 
 These halls near Lake Michigan are the industry's Valhalla, the largest convention center in America and still growing. Four years ago McCormick Place added an 840,000-square-foot hall -- as big as the entire Javits Center -- to bring the total exhibit space to 2.2 million square feet, and now it's building even more. 
 This week, if you made the half-mile trek across the center, you passed a sea of computer equipment at the Comdex show and then entered acres of humongous garbage trucks and compactors at Waste Expo. To people in the convention-center business, it doesn't get much better than this. 
Two huge shows at once! Thousands of conventioneers paying for hotel rooms and meals! All those dollars, and New York is missing out because it keeps delaying plans to enlarge the Javits Center. Why, the Javits boosters ask, can't New York take a cue from Chicago and the other cities that are expanding their conventional halls?
But if you take a closer look at McCormick Place, you may wonder what has gotten into the people of Chicago and other cities. The new 19-acre hall filled with garbage trucks this week is actually empty much of the time. Conventions are scheduled there only seven days per month this spring, and only six days per month in the summer. Chicago is caught in an arms race of cities rapidly adding more space than there are conventions to fill.
In the 1990's, Chicago's share of the convention market was declining even as the center expanded, according to Heywood Sanders, the director of the public administration program at the University of Texas at San Antonio. In 1989 Chicago drew 29 of the major national shows; a decade later it got only 23 despite building the new hall, a new hotel and other facilities.
After the new hall opened in 1996, Dr. Sanders notes, the total number of conventioneers visiting Chicago actually declined slightly the next three years. Last year attendance was up, but not nearly enough to fill the new space.
"Chicago spent a billion dollars to expand exhibit space by 60 percent," Dr. Sanders said, "but they've gotten at best 20 percent more business in a good year, and nothing in a bad year. That's typical of what you see at the other centers that have expanded."
Such warnings, though, rarely deter politicians from expansion projects that provide patronage and please the hotel and restaurant industries. A few vague and unrealistic projections are enough to justify going ahead. The people who operate and use the halls know that the public will help foot the bills.
To pay for the new hall at McCormick Place, Illinois legislators imposed a 6 percent tax on rental cars and added surcharges on hotel rooms, restaurant meals and rides in taxicabs, limousines and buses. Chicagoans also got stuck with a bill for subsidizing coal miners in southern Illinois, because that was the price downstate legislators demanded in return for approving the new hall.
AND what did the Chicagoans get in return for their money? "Remarkably little," Dr. Sanders said, "and New Yorkers could expect the same from an expansion at Javits. There would be essentially no change in its business, and maybe even a decline as the competition gets tougher. As the economy slows, and a 25 percent increase in exhibit space comes on the market over the next five years, the result will be murderous competition."
New Yorkers may think that conventioneers will be unable to resist the city's lure, but that's not what you hear from the people at Waste Expo this week. They see New York as costlier than Chicago, and they are already looking forward to next year's show in Las Vegas as a relief from Chicago's $180-a-night rooms and expensive union work rules.
Dan Brandon, who was selling the Boss Hog, a 46-foot-long, 90,000-pound machine for grinding whole trees, said he did not relish maneuvering that equipment into New York or paying $250 for a hotel room. The prospect of an enlarged Javits Center did nothing for Mr. Brandon, a marketing manager for a Michigan company called Morbark, who is a member of the committee that helps choose the location of Waste Expo each year.
"Take this show to New York?" Mr. Brandon asked incredulously. "The idea has never even been brought up in our committee." He and Dr. Sanders have the same message for dreamers of a bigger Javits Center: build it and they will not come. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXHIBITIONS (89%); TRADE SHOWS (89%); LODGING (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); RESTAURANTS (68%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (66%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (55%) CONVENTIONS AND CONFERENCES; JAVITS, JACOB K, CONVENTION CENTER (NYC); MCCORMICK PLACE (CHICAGO) 

PERSON: TIERNEY, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); LAKE MICHIGAN (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY; CHICAGO (ILL)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2001 



177 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 4620 words

HEADLINE: ART GUIDE 

 BODY:
 A selective listing by critics of The New York Times of new or noteworthy art, design and photography exhibitions at New York museums and art galleries this weekend. Addresses, unless otherwise noted, are in Manhattan. Most galleries are closed on Sundays and Mondays, but hours vary and should be checked by telephone. Gallery admission is free.
* denotes a highly recommended show.

Museums

* "AFRICAN FORMS," Museum for African Art, 593 Broadway, near Houston Street, SoHo, (212) 966-1313 (through Aug. 8). This show forgoes the figurative sculptures and masks that made African art a foundation of Western modernism to concentrate on supposedly humbler stuff, objects of physical adornment and daily use. With some 400 objects created by 156 ethnic groups, it proceeds in clusters of related carved wood neck rests, stools and boxes; ivory hairpins and snuff bottles; all kinds of jewelry; baskets and ceramic vessels; and spoons, weapons and musical instruments. The show is pervaded by an elegance, an economy of form and a sensitivity to materials that is both intensely spiritual and protomodern. Figurative sculpture and masks may be the "high art" of Africa, but there is no low. Hours: Tuesdays through Fridays, 10:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 6 p.m. Admission: $5; $2.50, students and 65+ (Roberta Smith).

"ALUMINUM BY DESIGN: JEWELRY TO JETS," Smithsonian Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum, 2 East 91st Street, (212) 849-8400 (through July 15). Once regarded as a precious metal, aluminum today is one of the cheapest and most useful of all materials, the stuff of lawn chairs and airplanes. Though lacking the kind of sumptuous objects you would find in an exhibition devoted to gold or silver, this exhibition tells a fascinating story. It begins with Victorian jewelry, pauses for a good look at elegant Modernist furniture and housewares, touches on sports equipment and soda cans and concludes with contemporary objects like a chaise longue by Marc Newson, a silvery blob with riveted skin that looks like a prop from David Lynch's film "Dune." Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Tuesdays to 9 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Admission: $8; $5, students and 62+ (Ken Johnson).

* "BITSTREAMS" AND "DATA DYNAMICS," Whitney Museum of American Art, 945 Madison Avenue, at 75th Street, (212) 570-3676 (through June 10). Companion digital shows with a well-mannered, slightly dull air of decorous efficiency and cheerful modernity that encapsulates what you may regard as an ethos at large. Both affairs survey the new technological age in art, and there is no denying the inevitability of the big message here, which we discount at the risk of sheer stupidity: technology is changing how artists, especially young ones, make all types of art and, in turn, how we experience it. Still, the work produced needs to answer the old question: Does it move us? And there's the rub. A few artists, like Paul Pfeiffer and Jeremy Blake, stand out in "BitStreams." In "Data Dynamics," works like "Apartment" and "Netomat," metaphors for the Web as global unconscious, suggest that Internet art is at least becoming more like traditional media, whereby most but no longer all of what you see is unremarkable. Don't skip the sound section in "BitStreams," 25 audio artists working squarely in the tradition of musique concrete, a half-century-old movement but with new digital means replacing tape recorders. Hours: Thursdays, Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Fridays, 1 to 9 p.m. Admission: $10; $8, students and 62+ (Michael Kimmelman).

* "COMMITTED TO THE IMAGE: CONTEMPORARY BLACK PHOTOGRAPHERS," Brooklyn Museum of Art, 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000 (through April 29). This sharply installed survey of 94 artists covers several decades of work, much of it by a generation of photographers who came of age in the 1960's and 70's. The pictures are sorted by broad themes (people, beauty, family, religion, etc.), and formal polish tends to predominate over conceptual grit. The terrain, over all, is unsensational ordinary life, with the heat turned up high now and then. Images of urban churchgoers, Louisiana sugar cane cutters, the magnetic Billie Holiday and children in African refugee camps sit side by side. The eclectic array has its share of bland entries, but there are dozens of wonderful artists here, and their collective spirit is persuasive. Hours: Wednesdays through Fridays, 10 am. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m (until 11 p.m. the first Saturday of the month). Admission: $4; $2, students and 62+ (Holland Cotter).

"THE GLOBAL GUGGENHEIM: SELECTIONS FROM THE EXTENDED COLLECTION," Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500 (through April 22). Of the big permanent collection shows that have been taking up so much space, the Guggenheim's is the last. It's also the coolest, the prettiest, the least programmatic and the most conservative. Despite the "global" spin of the title, this is strictly a Euro-American affair. And thanks to the eye of the curator, Carmen Gimenez, it is a very beautiful one. The great Wright spiral feels freshly swept out; the bays are sparingly hung; and dozens of top-notch works, including a few from the Hermitage in St. Petersburg and Guggenheim branches abroad, have been paired and grouped to ignite free-associational sparks. Hours: Sundays through Wednesdays, 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays, 9 am. to 8 p.m. Admission: $12; $8, students and 65+ (Cotter).

* "ANDREAS GURSKY," Museum of Modern Art, 11 West 53rd Street, (212) 708-9400 (through May 15). The giant pictures in this midcareer retrospective of Mr. Gursky, the 46-year-old German photographer, are so eye-poppingly, drop-dead gorgeous that in this world, where no good turn goes unpunished, you may feel compelled to react with suspicion and reserve. But knee-jerk resistance at the sight of the nondescript global emblems of new capitalist sprawl that he photographs is short-circuited by sheer awe at the incredible, sublimely weird, almost erotic glamour he imparts to them. The work is instantly attractive to the point of alarm, which is the feeling of falling in love. You might as well give yourself over to it and worry about the consequences later. Hours: Thursdays through Tuesdays, 10:30 a.m. to 5:45 p.m.; until 8:15 p.m. on Fridays. Admission: $10; $6.50, students and 65+ (Kimmelman).

"HERE AND THERE/AQUI Y ALLA: SIX ARTISTS FROM SAN JUAN," El Museo del Barrio, 1230 Fifth Avenue, at 104th Street, East Harlem, (212) 831-7272 (through May 20). The six ambitious, cosmopolitan Puerto Rican artists in this show -- four men and two women, all in their 30's, all working with some form of installation -- are a lively crew. Minimalism isn't their scene; nor, in any overt way, is politics. For the most part they are into sound, color, humor and unfastidious beauty, with several media cooking away simultaneously. The results are a high-spirited, obstacle-ridden, outre-and-proud sort of show, the kind you move slowly, even cautiously, around in rather than one you breeze through. Hours: Wednesday through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Admission: $4; $2, students and 65+ (Cotter).

* PAUL McCARTHY, New Museum of Contemporary Art, 583 Broadway, near Houston Street, SoHo, (212) 219-1222 (through May 13). From his far-out position where the psychic security of Hollywood's packaging of sex and violence doesn't exist, Mr. McCarthy taps veins deep in the collective subconscious, well beyond where most shock artists have the audacity or intelligence to operate. He has been a cultish presence in Los Angeles for years, and his moment has finally come in New York. We see an artist of wild highs and lows, of black comedy, cheap jokes, unspeakable actions, dry formalism and some real fiascos -- the mark of an artist risking failure, a good sign. There is something beyond mere Pop parody or social provocation in the work, something to do with deep private needs and desires, which we perceive secondhand as comic pathos. It is art as tough therapy, disturbingly honest. Hours: Wednesdays and Sundays, noon to 6 p.m.; Thursdays through Saturdays, noon to 8 p.m. Admission: $6; $3, artists, students and 65+ (Kimmelman).

* "19TH- AND 20TH-CENTURY CHINESE PAINTINGS FROM THE ROBERT H. ELLSWORTH COLLECTION, Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue at 82nd Street, (212) 879-5500 (through Aug. 19). The 19th and 20th centuries were shattering times for China, bringing wars, civil violence and the fall of an empire. In art, old forms survived and flourished but also changed. This exhibition surveys how elite painting traditions developed for a new audience and under Western influences from 1850 to 1980. Among the highlights is a group of paintings by Qi Baishi (1864-1957), deservedly one of the most popular of all Chinese artists. The big news is that a major museum has quietly taken a firm stand on modern art in Asia, seeing it not as a postscript to a great tradition but as an integral, living part of the continuum. Hours and admission: See above (Cotter).

* "THE TREASURY OF BASEL CATHEDRAL," Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue at 82nd Street, (212) 535-7710 (through May 27). The jewel-embellished gold and silver liturgical objects and reliquaries in this show exist on some exotic outer fringe of beauty where the crass and the ineffable meet. Together they have a cliffhanger of a tale to tell, as frustrating as it is uplifting. (They were preserved as an ensemble until Basel city politics intervened in the 19th century.) There's the rarity factor: almost none of the 75 works have visited the United States before. And it's hard to remember the last time anythig quite like their single-minded incandescence radiated from a local museum. Hours and admission: See above (Cotter).

* "VAN GOGH'S POSTMAN: THE PORTRAITS OF JOSEPH ROULIN," Museum of Modern Art, 11 West 53rd Street, (212) 708-9400 (through May 15). This revelatory micro-exhibition reunites five portraits of the postal worker Joseph Roulin, whom van Gogh met while in Arles. The show affords an excellent opportunity to study the painter's craft as he processes a single motif through a series of approaches from painterly naturalism to richly patterned symbolism. It is fascinating as well to see the portraits in light of the biographical background. Roulin cared for van Gogh after the famous ear-cutting incident, and he grew in the artist's imagination from an amusing local character to a figure of Christ-like benevolence. Hours and admission: See above (Johnson).

* "VERMEER AND THE DELFT SCHOOL," Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue at 82nd Street, (212) 879-5500 (through ay 27). Genius does not flourish in a vacuum. That's the simple lesson vividly conveyed by this alternately tousled and crystalline exhibition. With 15 Vermeers -- nearly half his known paintings -- serving as ballast, this exhibition almost giddily spotlights a succession of artists, tracking the emergence of an increasingly effortless illusionism in Delft in the 1650's and 60's. Flower still lifes, whitewashed church interiors, townscapes and genre scenes by Pieter de Hooch, Carel Fabritius and Gerard Houckgeest are part of the mix, along with drawings and a breathtaking selection of small landscapes by artists you've never heard of. All this contextualizing sharpens one's sense of Vermeer's achievement, but it also spells out the milieu without which he would not have been Vermeer. Hours and admission: See above (Smith).

Galleries: Uptown

NICK BLOSSER, "Out-of-Doors," Adam Baumgold, 74 East 79th Street, (212) 861-7338 (through April 14). This Tennessee-based painter works from actual landscapes but abstracts, distorts and animates his observations to transcendentalist effect. Painted with unfussy directness in egg tempera on wood panels, the undulating rhythms of trees, clouds and winding paths, the fuzzy textures of foliage, grass and shrubbery and the wintry light -- all compactly contained within wide, dark frames -- make for small worlds that are at once magical and all-natural (Johnson).

* "ENDURING ART OF JADE AGECHINA: CHINESE JADES OF LATE NEOLITHIC THROUGH HAN PERIODS," Throckmorton Fine Art, 153 East 61st Street, (212) 223-1059 (through April 14). Organized by the art historian Elizabeth Childs-Johnson and accompanied by a substantial catalog, this show includes 70 pieces, most of them shirt-pocket size, arranged chronologicaly around the gallery. Despite the diminutive scale and the notorious intractability of jade itself, each piece is spectacular, with pinpoint-fine carved detail. No wonder jade had mystical allure for the ancient Chinese: it's as adamant as political ambition, as luminous as trapped light (Cotter).

* NEIL JENNEY, "The Bad Years: 1969-70," Gagosian Gallery, 980 Madison Avenue, at 76th Street, (212) 744-2313 (through April 14). Twenty-one paintings from the beginning of Mr. Jenney's career demonstrate that in the early 1970's the medium was not only not dead, but was also absorbing the strategies and attitudes of Conceptual and Process Art. With their lackadaisical brushwork, Dick-and-Jane simplicity, heavy black frames and teasing titles, these works twist the connections between word and image, surface and depth, and glibness and something dark and more than a little disturbing. Three more recent works give an idea of what Mr. Jenney is up to now (Smith).

"NIGHTLIFE," Bonni Benrubi, 52 East 76th Street, (212) 517-3766 (through April 15). A gleeful couple on a Parisian bumper car by Robert Frank; Robert Frost captured by Arthur Rickerby being lionized by two young bare-shouldered women at his Nobel Prize dinner; Marilyn Monroe and her amazing elevating skirt in two different images by George Zimbel; glowing movie and theater signs of New York by Benn Mitchell, Sam Ross and Louis Stettner; fireworks over Niagara Falls on New Year's Eve 2000, by Jed Devine -- all this and more make up this cornucopia of photographic nocturnes (Johnson).

Galleries: 57th Street

BILL BRANDT, "Known and Unknown," Edwynn Houk, 745 Fifth Avenue, (212) 750-7070 (through May 5). Parlormaids and coal miners, portraits, landscapes and nudes, are some of the subjects tackled by Brandt (1904-1983), perhaps the greatest of English photographers. His high-contrast prints are often infused with the Surrealist spirit he absorbed in Paris as a young man. After World War II, Brandt gave up documentary photography to concentrate on the poetic side of his art, and there is a wonderful selection here of his famous nudes, some straight, some distorted versions of the female body or abstracted parts. They disturb the viewer's sense of rightness-with-the-world, but that was the aim of Brandt's adventurous lens (Grace Glueck).

* "THE JINA COLLECTION," Frederick Schultz Ancient Art, 41 East 57th Street, (212) 758-6007 (through April 28). Few examples of sculpture associated with the Jain religion of India are on permanent view in New York, which makes this show a rare treat. The 25 pieces are all of male spiritual heroes known as jinas. A seventh-century bronze figure has been rubbed as smooth as sea-stone from countless ritual baths. A big image from Rajasthan is among the earliest known Jain metal images of its size, and another, carved from sugar-white marbl, is surely among the most beautiful. The show was organized in collaboration with Peter Marks, one of the city's top dealers in South Asian art (Cotter).

Galleries: Chelsea

EUGENIO DITTBORN, "The Foreseen and Unforseen Position of Their Bodies," Alexander and Bonin, 132 10th Avenue, between 18th and 19th Streets, (212) 367-7474 (through April 14). Since 1984 this Chilean conceptualist has been folding up his paintings and exporting them by airmail, at first to evade government censors and later as a metaphor about geography, distance and modernity. Unfolded and pinned to the wall, his expansive stitched, printed and stained fabric collages of words and pictures offer an oblique, sometimes witty, sometimes horrific poetry of historical, philosophical, political and personal reflection (Johnson).

GRAHAM DURWARD, JEAN-FREDERIC SCHNYDER, "Three Paintings," AC Project Room, 453 West 17th Street, (212) 645-4970 (through April 14). Two artists, the first a Scottish New Yorker, the second Swiss, both with restless conceptualist tendencies, show three paintings. Two are large, one little. Mr. Durward's expansive, Sam Francis-like abstractions, painted on grids of vellum panels, have a lush, watery prettiness. But Mr. Schnyder's 8 1/2-by-12-inch picture of a green alpine landscape that harbors a nuclear power plant has a rich, painterly concentration that steals the show (Johnson).

SHARON GOLD, "Seeing Subjects," Pardo Lattuada, 210 11th Avenue, near 25th Street, (212) 242-8523 (through April 17). Viewers who know Ms. Gold as a prominent painter of rectangle-style abstractions in the 1970's and 80's might be surprised by her new works: small, figurative oil paintings, many of which depict 19th-century women using various sorts of viewing devices like mirrors, spectacles, magnifiers or stereoscopes. The artist was evidently transformed by reading theory about looking, the gaze and so forth (Johnson).

"HOME AND THE WORLD: AN EXPLORATION OF IDENTITY AT CROSSROADS," India Center of Art and Culture, 530 West 25th Street, (212) 462-4221 (through May 31). The recently opened nonprofit space is devoted equally to art, literature, music and film, and most of those media play some role in this group exhibition of contemporary artists of Indian descent (Cotter).

JUSTINE KURLAND, Gorney Bravin + Lee, 534 West 26th Street, (212) 352-8372 (through April 14). In her second show, which feels transitional, this young photographer pushes her teenage girl-in-landscape theme in some different directions, while greatly reducing its double meanings and odd intimations of magic kingdoms and myths. Most images settle for after-school banality; others render the figures incidental to a growing emphasis on landscape, which is notable for its clarity of light and detail (Smith).

* CLAUDETTE SCHREUDERS, "Burnt by the Sun," Jack Shainman, 513 West 20th Street, (212) 645-1701 (through April 14). There is a dark side to the irresistibly charming faux-folk, carved and painted wood sculpture of this young, white South African artist, for in variously subtle ways it alludes to the experience of growing up under apartheid. "Mingle" portrays the young artist herself holding a glass of wine, a shy person at an art opening perhaps. Seen against the background of apartheid, however, the title takes on a much more loaded urgency and the anxiety of the artist a far greater poignancy (Johnson).

BEVERLY SEMMES, Leslie Tonkonow, 535 West 22nd Street, (212) 255-8450 (through April 14). An artist known for her sculptures in the form of gigantically oversize women's clothing here presents something monumental and absurd but abstract: a great, vaguely fecal mound of convoluted, fat, stuffed tubes of electric green nylon. Gallery personnel are wearing overalls made from the same material, which creates a mysterious sense of industrial purpose (Johnson).

MARK SHEINKMAN, Von Lintel & Nusser, 555 West 25th Street, (212) 242-0599, (through April 14). Made by a methodical process of taping, painting and smearing, Mr. Sheinkman's glossy autumn-hued abstractions have a shimmering, allover luminosity; but the technique is too obviously formulaic. On small pieces of paper, on the other hand, he carefully plows through paint with blunt instruments to create layered tubular compositions that are more engagingly various and materially delicate (Johnson).

AL SOUZA, Charles Cowles, 537 West 24th Street, (212) 925-3500 (through April 21). Mr. Souza makes pictures entirely from jigsaw puzzle parts. Using sections from many different puzzles, side by side or glued on top of one another, he produces surrealistically disjunctive compositions, including images of cats, New England barns, comic book superheroes and packaged candy. The kitschy, kaleidoscopic busyness is fun, but when you get close, you wish they were made in some more interesting way (Johnson).

"THREE CONTEMPORARY PAINTERS," Bose Pacia Modern, 508 West 26th Street, (212) 989-7074 (through April 23). Work by three Indian-born artists, including Dhruvi Acharya's symbolic tableaus of dream-travelling women; a terrific multipart piece by Manisha Parekh from the reent Havana Biennale; and, most haunting, spare calligraphic paintings by Nilima Sheikh illustrating episodes from the life of the Buddha (Cotter).

Galleries: SoHo

"AT THE EDGE: THE HORIZON LINE IN CONTEMPORARY ART," Dorsky, 379 West Broadway, near Spring Street, (212) 966-6170 (through April 14). This 15-artist group show might have taken a less literal, more imaginative approach to its potentially rich theme, but it offers some pleasing pictures. These include three small, delicately atmospheric seascapes painted by Pat de Groot and assorted expansive photographic landscapes or waterscapes, ranging from lush color pictures by Stuart Klipper and Richard Misrach to the Minimalistic black-and-white approaches of Hiroshi Sugimoto or Tom Bamburger (Johnson).

DONALD BAECHLER, "Five Easy Pieces," Tony Shafrazi, 119 Wooster Street, (212) 274-9300 (through April 14). Each of the five handsome works in this nicely spaced show consists of a big, primitivistic black-and-white flower, roughly painted over a seemingly aged patchwork collage of dots or stripes, generic cartoon faces, geometric forms and old prints of flowers or soldiers. The faux naivete is calculated, but nevertheless the nostalgia for childhood is not unaffecting (Johnson).

"JOSEPH BEUYS, GERHARD RICHTER, BINKY PALERMO, SIGMAR POLKE," Nolan/Eckman, 560 Broadway, at Prince Street, (212) 925-6190 (through April 14). These four famous Germans may be -- or in the case of Palermo and Beuys, may have been -- giants; but this selection of works on paper is not the show to convince nonfans. It includes a richly spilled and layered painterly abstraction by Mr. Polke and a set of six mysterious photographs of ghostly figures in a room by Mr. Richter, but most of the work is too sketchy to excite the unconverted (Johnson).

FRANCES KUEHN, "Figure in Landscape," Phoenix Gallery, 568 Broadway, at Prince Street, (212) 226-8711 (through April 14). With deadpan photo-based realism, Ms. Kuehn paints Sisyphean allegories of earth-bound labor. The hero, a middle-aged woman resembling the artist, is depicted digging a hole with a shovel, scrubbing the ground with a bristle brush, sunk almost to her armpits in dirt and putting her shoulder to a huge round boulder. These unassumingly wry, neatly made pictures have an oddly affecting psychological poignancy (Johnson).

Other Galleries

* "BELGIAN FASHION: ANTWERP STYLE," Fashion Institute of Technology, Seventh Avenue at 27th Street, (212) 217-7999 (through April 14). Starting with Martin Margiela, this exhibition brings together 75 ensembles designed by 10 Belgian designers; all but one studied at Antwerp's Royal Academy of Fine Arts in the last 20 years. Destruction and inspired, self-knowing tampering are the names of the games here, along with wildly creative borrowing, from Victorian to Goth to pop culture. Olivier Theyskens's white-leather outerwear and Jurgi Persoons's expressively hand-stitched garments are among the highlights, but the general level is high. Coherence and dissonance, required of any group exhibition regardless of medium, prevails throughout (Smith).

"FIRST STEPS: EMERGING ARTISTS FROM JAPAN," Grey Art Gallery, New York University, 100 Washington Square East, Greenwich Village, (212) 998-6780 (through April 14). Six young artists and an artist team are making a collective American debut in this exhibition, which is all over the place and takes a few directions you may hesitate to follow. But over all it is ingenious and fun. Work includes do-it-yourself origami Nintendo icons, stitched maps of an artist's daily moves and sculptures made from nail clippings and saliva (Cotter).

Last Chance

"ABSTRACTION AND IMMANENCE," Hunter College/Times Square Gallery, 450 West 41st Street, Clinton, (212) 772-4991 (through tomorrow). Prompted by the title, some viewers may pick up spiritual vibes, but the prevailing feeling of this 18-artist show is one of formalist conservatism. There are handsome grid paintings by Stephen Westfall and Peter Stroud; softly luminous paintings by Gwen Hardie and Nancy Haynes; and dense, single-color squares by Marcia Hafif. The freshest works are Christian Garnett's surfaceless visions of glaring white light and a dark blue ellipse by Erik Saxon (Johnson).

JOE AMRHEIN, "Critical Mass," Roebling Hall, 390 Wythe Avenue, at South Fourth Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 599-5352 (through Tuesday). Exhibiting Conceptual sympathies and a sign painter's skills, Mr. Amrhein's latest works consist of well-chosen bits of contemporary art criticism writ large in big, gaudy, circusy letters on staggered layers of vellum. Their piled-on phrases suggest both the intermittent poetry and disembodied strainings of art writing, and pay homage while exacting an exuberant revenge (Smith).

"ANCIENT CHINA: MUSIC AND RITUAL," J. J. Lally & Company, 41 East 57 Street, (212) 371-3380 (through tomorrow). This small, handsome exhibition centers on a group of bronze bells of varying sizes, and includes a melodic cluster of related objects: an earthenware gong, a bronze tuning key with a bear teetering on top, a simian-looking drum bearer and a live-wire Western Han dancer who preens and bends (Cotter).

* "DRAW AND TELL: THE TRANSFORMATIVE LINES OF NORVAL MORRISSEAU/COPPER THUNDERBIRD," The Drawing Center's Drawing Room, 40 Wooster Street, SoHo, (212) 219-2166 (through tomorrow). Mr. Morrisseau, who also uses his Native American name, Copper Thunderbird, produced the 50 drawings in this show while in prison in the early 1970's. They're executed in pencil on torn-off sheets of paper towel, and they are extraordinary. They combine pictographic human and animal forms with elements of modernist style in hallucinatory narratives. The results aren't ingratiating or beautiful. Like visionary work in many cultures, they are aggressive, sometimes violent, as much about fearfulness as transcendence (Cotter).

MK KAHNE, "Clubbing: Rotation," Janos Gat, 1100 Madison Avenue, between 82nd and 83rd Streets, (212) 327-0441 (through tomorrow). This Berlin sculptor's seductive mock-commodities recall Ashley Bickerton's box works from the 1980's. The four works by Mr. Kahne include an elaborate portable bar, a video surveillance kit, a sound system for listening to Punk Rock and a phototransparency light box for personal publicity. All fold up into ultra-sleek pieces of luggage for the overprivileged modern nomad (Johnson).

* "WOMEN DESIGNERS IN THE U.S.A., 1900-2000: DIVERSITY AND DIFFERENCE," Bard Graduate Center for Studies in the Decorative Arts, Design and Culture, 18 West 86th Street, Manhattan, (212) 501-3000 (through Sunday). At the turn of the 20th century, female designers were mostly white, middle-class and skilled in "female" pursuits; today they are ethnically diverse and have made enormous progress in their field. Architecture, landscaping, interiors, furniture, textiles, apparel, posters, tableware, wallpaper, ceramics, lighting, jewelry, floor coverings, silverware, car doors, costumes and industrial products are represented in this bountiful show, which shoehorns some 220 objects into three floors of tight gallery space. Works by American Indians and African-Americans are given special attention (Glueck).

GRAPHIC: Photos: A large detail from a work by John F. Simon Jr. in "Bitstreams." (Whitney Museum); A detail from Yoshio Itagaki's "Tourists on the Moon No. 2," in the "First Steps" exhibition at Grey Art Gallery in Greenwich Village. (Grey Art Gallery) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (95%); SCULPTURE (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY (89%); ETHNIC GROUPS (71%); ETHNICITY (69%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (69%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (53%); MUSIC (53%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: COOPER-HEWITT NATIONAL DESIGN MUSEUM (54%); NEW YORK JETS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2001 



178 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 839 words

HEADLINE: Standoff Worries U.S. Companies in China 

BYLINE:  By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: HONG KONG, April 5 

 BODY:
As the standoff over a midair collision between United States and Chinese military planes enters its sixth day, American businesspeople here are repeating like a mantra, "It's business as usual."
 But while Motorola, Procter & Gamble and other companies insist that the dispute need not damage commercial ties with China, a few are starting to acknowledge that it is far from business as usual. 
 General Motors issued a memorandum on Wednesday warning its expatriate staff in China to take extra precautions in the coming days. The memorandum, signed by the chairman of GM China, Philip Murtaugh, noted that sentiment toward Americans could sour quickly. It advised employees to stay out of crowds and avoid discussing the incident with people they do not know. 
"It's a good idea to remind people who are not natives to be a little careful," said Alan Adler, a spokesman for GM China. "There's been no operational change in our business, but it's clearly on people's minds."
Hostility between Beijing and Washington is a recurring nightmare for companies like G.M., which have huge investments in China. The automaker operates a $1.5 billion car plant in Shanghai and a $230 million truck factory in Shenyang. It employs 3,500 people in China, 100 of them expatriates.
Several executives said the dispute was not yet as grave as the one surrounding NATO's accidental bombing of the Chinese embassy in Belgrade in 1999, which touched off attacks on American diplomatic missions throughout China. This time, they noted, China has squelched attempts to protest outside the United States Embassy in Beijing.
But the executives said that unless the standoff was resolved quickly, it could spill over into issues like China's entry into the World Trade Organization and Beijing's trade relations with the United States.
"You've already got various members of Congress talking about trying to block China's accession to the W.T.O.," said Frank Martin, the president of the American Chamber of Commerce in Hong Kong. "Then there is the extension of China's normal trade status, which is coming up for a vote in Congress."
"These are the things we are talking about among ourselves," Mr. Martin said, "and nobody has any easy answers."
Few businesspeople say they believe that Congress will reverse its vote granting permanent normal trade relations to China. But Beijing's entry into the W.T.O. is a thornier issue. It has already been delayed until at least the fall because of squabbles at W.T.O. headquarters in Geneva over the subsidies the Chinese government can pay farmers.
Some executives worry that if the standoff poisons the atmosphere between the United States and China, it could magnify the wrangling over relatively trivial details into a deal-breaking impasse.
"People are getting antsy about the stalled situation in Geneva," said Eden Y. Woon, the director of the Hong Kong General Chamber of Commerce. "In any multilateral setting, the U.S. usually takes the leadership role. If there is bad blood with China, how will that affect the negotiations?"
In the short run, the tension will probably halt some American investments in China, if only temporarily. China will barely feel the pinch: foreign direct investment in the country has soared, with $2.22 billion of new investment in January, a 22 percent increase compared with figures in the month a year earlier.
An escalating dispute would also damp China's ability to tap capital markets. The Chinese government hopes to issue shares in two major state-owned companies, Bank of China and China Telecom, early next year. But shares of two of the best-known Chinese state companies, China Mobile and China Unicom, plunged in Hong Kong on Wednesday. The market was closed for a holiday today.
For American companies with big operations in China, there is little to do but watch, wait and hope for the best. "We're concerned and we'd like to see this amicably resolved as quickly as possible," said Steve Lyons, a spokesman for Motorola, the semiconductor and cellular phone maker. "We see the Hainan thing as an unfortunate situation that is much more political than economic."
Motorola's concern is understandable. With 12,000 employees and $3.4 billion worth of investments in China, the company has perhaps a greater Chinese stake than any American corporation.
Mr. Adler of G.M. said he was somewhat optimistic that Beijing and Washington could work things out, particularly since the United States secretary of state, Colin Powell, expressed regret over the loss of the Chinese pilot. But he noted that domestic politics on both sides made the situation unpredictable.
Unlike G.M., Motorola and P.& G. have not issued warnings to employees. But a spokesman for P.& G., John Yam, said the company was monitoring the situation and would act if necessary. It employs 4,000 people in China and has plants in Guangzhou, Beijing, Tianjin and Chengdu.
"There have always been ups and downs in the U.S. relationship with China," Mr. Yam said. "But we have a long-term commitment to China."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Chinese workers assemble a Buick in Shanghai. General Motors has warned its expatriate employees in China to take extra precautions. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY AIRCRAFT (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (88%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (86%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (86%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (86%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (85%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); BOMBINGS (73%); AIRLINES (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MFG (71%); AUTOMAKERS (71%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (69%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (64%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

COMPANY: PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (58%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (54%) GENERAL MOTORS CORP; MOTOROLA INC; PROCTER & GAMBLE CO; WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION 

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (58%); PG (NYSE) (58%); MSI (NYSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (58%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (58%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (58%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%) SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & CAR BODIES; 

PERSON: LANDLER, MARK 

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (91%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); EAST CHINA (92%); NORTHEAST CHINA (79%); LIAONING, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); HONG KONG (92%); SERBIA (79%); SWITZERLAND (74%) CHINA

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2001 



179 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 930 words

HEADLINE: Brazil Scrambles for More Energy 

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER L. RICH 

DATELINE: SAO PAULO, Brazil, April 5 

 BODY:
Though nightly newscasts show cars floating down flood-prone streets here, residents are hoping for more rain -- at least 20 percent more than normal for this time of year, to be precise.
 That is how much the operators of Brazil's electricity grid say needs to fall to ensure that hydroelectric plants will continue to run at full capacity, averting the need for energy rationing, like the recent rolling blackouts in California, in at least part of Brazil later in the year. 
 Here, as elsewhere across the globe, the struggle to deregulate has been coupled with soaring demand for power. As the Brazilian government seeks other energy sources, formulates a rationing plan and encourages consumers to voluntarily cut back energy use, companies -- especially those in power-hungry industries -- are scrambling for ways to make sure their electricity needs will be met. And independent local and foreign power developers, like EnergyWorks, based in Landover, Md., are hoping to be of service, offering to construct minipower plants on the companies' premises. 
"A lot of companies have been calling us in the last two weeks to see if it is possible to invest in this type of project," said Nelson Cardoso de Oliveira, business development manager for EnergyWorks, a unit of the electric utility Iberdrola S.A. of Spain.
For the last few years, experts have warned of an impending energy crisis in Brazil, as increasing industrialization has caused the demand for energy to outpace supply by about 20 percent. The government's three-year-old effort to attract more investors through the privatization of most of the country's power grid has had a slow start. Local companies have been hindered by a lack of financing. And uncertainties in the newly deregulated power market over such things as the pricing of electricity have stymied grid-expansion plans by the private enterprises, including Enron, that bought up the former state-owned companies. 
Even the completion last year of a natural gas pipeline from Bolivia has been slow to stimulate investments in thermoelectric power, a move that was meant to reduce the country's near-total dependence on hydroelectric power. Only 15 of the 49 thermoelectric plants that the government focused on almost two years ago in its emergency power plan seem close to coming on line, in the next year or so.
With rainfall missing major reservoirs and a shortage of transmission lines preventing excess power that does exist from moving among regions, the government says that the power situation in Brazil will be touch-and-go at least until 2003.
So some of the country's biggest power-intensive companies are taking matters into their own hands, hoping to ensure a constant power supply with their own natural-gas-fired generators. Among those that have recently done so are Cia. Siderurgica Nacional, a steel maker, and Globo Comunicacoes e Participacoes, parent of the Rio de Janeiro daily newspaper O Globo. So have two rival breweries: Cia. Cervejarias Kaiser, owned by the Coca-Cola Company, its Brazilian bottlers and Heineken; and the maker of Brahma beer, Cia. de Bebidas das Americas, known as AmBev. Plants are planned for the Brazilian units of the American-based multinationals Corn Products International and International Paper.
Rudi Anvari, director of Engineering and Technology at Corn Products Brazil, said the company's decision was based on the "need to count on a reliable and flexible source of energy."
In a study of power use in the state of Sao Paulo, the state's secretary of energy found that companies produced 14 percent of the energy they consumed in 2000, up from 5 percent in 1994.
In some cases, the excess power from these company plants can be sold to the national grid. Jayme de Hollanda, general director of the National Institute for Energy Efficiency, a nonprofit advocacy group, said that this so-called cogenerated power should account for about 15 percent of the country's electricity supply by 2010.
"The volumes that we are dealing with don't provide a complete solution for the country, but they can certainly resolve localized problems," said Ivan Marimon, the sales manager at Guascor do Brasil, a joint venture controlled by Grupo Guascor of Spain, which builds small-scale power plants for hospitals. 
Companies said that part of the appeal of small power projects was that they required less time to build than a public power project -- sometimes as little as six months. And the cost, at about $6 million for a small 5-megawatt plant, could be just as cost effective for some companies as buying electricity from the national grid, especially since electricity prices were expected to increase significantly in the next several years.
Some private power concerns, including EnergyWorks, even finance the projects outright. But for a project to be viable for financiers and builders, companies need to agree to buy the electricity for 15 to 20 years. That is a daunting proposition for Brazilians, who have been made shy of long-term commitments by years of economic turmoil. Part of the doubt has been caused by exchange rate worries. Unlike natural gas prices, which are charged in dollars, electricity prices are fixed by the government in local currency.
Indeed, private power plants are clearly not for everyone.
"For most companies," said Pio Gavazzi, director of infrastructure at the Federation of Industries of the State of Sao Paulo, a trade group, a solution "could just be a matter of renegotiating existing electricity contracts or installing more energy efficient parts in the factory."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Brazilian companies and some overseas concerns are searching for more energy sources to make sure their electricity needs will be met. This EnergyWorks power plant was built for the Kaiser brewery in Pacatuba. (EnergyWorks do Brazil Ltd.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY DEMAND (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); POWER PLANTS (89%); POWER FAILURES (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (89%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (89%); FLOOD ZONES (78%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (77%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (77%); ENERGY REGULATION (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (77%); UTILITY RESTRUCTURING (77%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (77%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (76%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (74%); INDEPENDENT POWER PRODUCERS (69%); NATURAL GAS PIPELINES (61%) ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER 

COMPANY: IBERDROLA SA (91%); CIA SIDERURGICA NACIONAL (61%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: ENERGYWORKS LTD; IBERDROLA SA 

TICKER: IBE (MCE) (91%); SID (NYSE) (61%); CSNA3 (BOVESPA) (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (91%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (91%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (91%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (91%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (91%); NAICS331221 ROLLED STEEL SHAPE MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (61%); SIC3316 COLD-ROLLED STEEL SHEET, STRIP & BARS (61%); SIC1222 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (61%)

PERSON: RICH, JENNIFER L 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); SPAIN (79%) BRAZIL

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2001 



180 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 850 words

HEADLINE: Telecom Start-Up Will Cut Jobs and Halt Expansion 

BYLINE:  By SIMON ROMERO 

 BODY:
Yet another once-promising upstart has demonstrated how difficult it can be to achieve a foothold in the telecommunications industry.
 Winstar Communications said yesterday that it would eliminate 2,000 jobs -- 43 percent of its work force -- and halt expansion of its network, which provides telephone and Internet service to 32,000 business customers nationwide. 
 Winstar, which said the job cuts would take place immediately, said it had enough money to continue operating for another year. But investors, skeptical about the company's prospects, have already begun treating the company as if it were destined to collapse. 
Shares in Winstar have plummeted this year, falling from $22.75 in mid-January to 44 cents yesterday. The company's bonds due in 2010 were traded yesterday for only 3 percent of face value.
The company said yesterday that it was considering "several material transactions" to turn its business around, but it is unclear whether the company is putting itself up for sale or seeking to enter into other types of agreements.
Qwest Communications, which had been mentioned as a potential suitor, released a statement yesterday saying that it did not plan to acquire Winstar.
"We're hoping to refocus our strategies now on our existing network," said Kevin Cavanaugh, a spokesman for Winstar.
A year ago, Winstar rose to $64.88 a share on the promise of its technology, which uses so-called fixed wireless systems to connect office buildings to the telephone network and Internet in places not served by fiber optic networks.
But as even big communications carriers have been hit by the economic downturn, smaller competitors like Winstar have had an even tougher time.
"Like some of its counterparts, Winstar was just too ambitious and aggressive for its own good," said Jerry Paul, who manages the high-yield bond portfolio for Invesco Funds in Denver. "If Winstar does fail, hopefully its assets will be picked up by a healthy company that can make use of them."
Winstar, which is based in New York, is not alone among the small communications companies known as competitive local exchange carriers, or CLEC's (pronounced SEE-lecks), which are facing difficulties during a financing drought. Many of the companies were formed after the passage of the Telecommunications Act of 1996, which sought to increase competition with big local telephone companies like Verizon Communications and SBC Communications.
Companies including E.spire Communications of Herndon, Va., and ICG Communications of Denver have already filed for bankruptcy protection. And shares of competitors like Teligent Inc. of Vienna, Va., which also provides a type of wireless service like Winstar's, have been punished in recent weeks. Analysts increasingly expect only a handful of CLEC's to survive.
The problems with CLEC's are similar to those of a separate group of small communications companies -- those that focus on providing high-speed Internet access services.
In nearly all these cases, the companies are buffeted by a struggle to raise money for expansion or even continued operations. And the carriers' weaknesses threaten to undermine even large established makers of communications equipment like Lucent Technologies, Nortel Networks and Cisco Systems, which are facing a decline in revenue as companies like Winstar defer expansion plans.
And the financial instability of the small carriers raises other risks for Lucent, Nortel and Cisco, which have all provided financing to enable carriers to buy their products.
In Winstar's case, Lucent had extended about $400 million of financing; the recovery of that has been cast into doubt. Citing scrutiny from the Securities and Exchange Commission ahead of its earnings announcement planned for later this month, officials from Lucent declined to comment on the matter. 
"Winstar's announcement sets the stage for a broad-based revision of capital spending across the entire sector," said Glenn Reynolds, chief executive of CreditSights, an independent credit research company. "It's like one part of the food chain is nearing extinction and people are wondering how their hunger will be satisfied."
Still, it may be too early to gauge what effect difficulties at Winstar and its counterparts will have on companies like Lucent, which has had a steep decline in its own share price as investors have questioned its capacity to satisfy the solvency requirements of its creditors.
Until the dust settles from this latest round of difficulties, large equipment suppliers are expected to retrench, focusing on sales to their largest clients, big local phone companies and large foreign companies like Deutsche Telekom and France Telecom. 
So far these big carriers have been left relatively unscathed by turmoil in the rest of the telecommunications industry. In fact, they could emerge from the downturn even stronger as the weakest competitors are weeded out.
"If any comparison can be made between today and a year ago it would be that there are fewer stupid players than there used to be," Michel Bon, chairman of France Telecom, said in an interview yesterday.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS (92%); LAYOFFS (90%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (89%); WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (89%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (76%); CORPORATE BONDS (75%); BONDS (75%); FIBER OPTICS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (70%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: GVC NETWORKS LLC (90%); CENTURYLINK INC (90%); AT&T INC (84%); TELIGENT INC (61%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%); INVESCO LTD (53%); LEVEL 3 COMMUNICATIONS INC (51%); E SPIRE COMMUNICATIONS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: WINSTAR COMMUNICATIONS INC 

TICKER: CTL (NYSE) (90%); T (NYSE) (84%); VZC (LSE) (58%); VZ (NYSE) (58%); IVZ (NYSE) (53%); LVLT (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (90%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (84%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (61%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (51%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (51%)

PERSON: ROMERO, SIMON 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2001 



181 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 475 words

HEADLINE: An Aluminum Behemoth Is Born in Russia 

BYLINE:  By SABRINA TAVERNISE 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, April 5 

 BODY:
The Russian government has approved a huge merger that unites most of the country's sprawling aluminum industry in a single giant company second in output only to Alcoa of America.
 The company, Russian Aluminum, is now moving rapidly to consolidate its control of plants throughout Russia, changing the face of the industry here. And though the deal has been criticized for reducing competition in the domestic market, most analysts consider it a step forward in Russia's start-and-stop economic development. 
 Profiteering plagued the industry through much of the 1990's, when most Russian aluminum plants were in the hands of shadowy overseas trading companies whose true owners were often obscure. The trading companies tended to starve the plants of investment and funnel profits into offshore bank accounts.
Since then, Russia's rules have changed along with its economy, and the industry is beginning to operate along more conventional, transparent lines. And the owners of Russian Aluminum say they now have both the incentives and the cash to invest in upgrading the plants and increasing production.
"The whole approach to business is changing," said Svetlana Smirnova, a metals analyst at Renaissance Capital here. "Before, the traders just wanted the biggest margin possible, to buy at a low price. It was enough that the factory was functioning. Now people want to see value in the company."
With a green light this week from the government, Russian Aluminum, created last year as a holding company for aluminum assets, will finish absorbing 16 companies, combining their results in a single set of financial statements by the end of May. The dozens of exporting companies through which metal had been passed from plant to customer -- and through which revenue in the Russian industry is commonly diverted -- have been slimmed down to just six. The moves will make the industry much easier for analysts and investors to understand.
"In Russia, conditions are being created for companies to build value," Oleg Deripaska, one of Russian Aluminum's two principal owners, said in an interview.
Mr. Deripaska and his major partner, Roman Abramovich, who has oil interests, are among Russia's most powerful business executives, and are often accused of using political influence in the Kremlin to further their business interests. That antitrust officials approved a merger of about 70 percent of the aluminum industry is cited as an example.
Mr. Deripaska, 33, denies that he wields any special political influence. In his view, he said, Russian Aluminum is simply a cleaner, better player in a dirty old industry.
But his business rivals disagree. The company has been sued in the United States, where Russian rivals have asserted that the owners stooped to illegal means to gain control of some of their holdings. The company denies the charges. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPROVALS (90%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (90%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (90%); MERGERS (90%); METALS MARKETS (78%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); SUITS & CLAIMS (67%); INTERVIEWS (66%); LITIGATION (60%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (55%) ALUMINUM; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: ALCOA INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: RUSSIAN ALUMINUM 

TICKER: AAI (ASX) (58%); AA (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (58%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (58%)

PERSON: OLEG DERIPASKA (78%); ROMAN ABRAMOVICH (58%) TAVERNISE, SABRINA 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (93%) RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2001 



182 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1301 words

HEADLINE: Where Bush's Team Disengages, Russia Looks for New Roles in Diplomacy and Trade 

BYLINE:  By PATRICK E. TYLER 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, April 5 

 BODY:
As the Bush administration continues to review its foreign policy and has turned its attention this week to a crisis with China, President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia is doing what he can to move into the areas where Washington appears to have disengaged, Russian officials say.
 The officials say that Mr. Putin is trying to strengthen Moscow's bonds with Europe, increase Russia's role as a mediator in regional conflicts and open new trade links with Asia. 
 The Russian leader is acting in part, they say, to gain leverage for the day when he and President Bush sit down to chart a new agenda in a relationship that has been cut adrift by disputes and the changes of administration in both countries.
Kremlin officials say Mr. Putin is not only seeking a stronger role for Russia in Western affairs, but also a hedge against any Bush administration attempt to exclude Russia from security decisions that affect Russia's interests -- like NATO expansion and missile defenses. 
Mr. Putin's actions are also intended to strengthen the case being made by prominent voices in the United States to broaden -- not reduce -- economic and security ties with Russia, a policy that has enjoyed bipartisan support in Washington since the collapse of the Soviet Union.
"Putin is a proud person and smart person at the same time," said Irina M. Khakamada, a pro-reform leader in Parliament. "The smart person in him wants a strategic partnership with Europe and the United States, and the proud person in him wants some kind of leverage that will enable him to come to terms with the Bush administration." 
Today, Mr. Putin said he would like to undertake a peace mission to the Middle East to help mediate a solution to the rising violence between Israelis and Palestinians. He has invited the Egyptian president, Hosni Mubarak, and Syria's foreign minister, Farouk al-Shara, to visit Moscow this month, and he is working with Arab leaders to push for an end to United Nations sanctions against Iraq in return for greater compliance with resolutions demanding a resumption of weapons inspections.
Also, as the Bush administration has temporarily withdrawn from active diplomacy on the Korean Peninsula, Mr. Putin is expected to meet the North Korean leader, Kim Jong Il, this month in an effort -- now joined by the European Union -- to convince the mercurial Mr. Kim to reconcile with South Korea and to abandon the ballistic missile program that has been cited by Washington as a large part of its rationale for a missile defense. 
At the same time, Mr. Putin is strengthening Moscow's bonds with Europe. Russia announced today that it has opened discussions with the European Union to cooperate with the independent European defense force being formed outside of NATO. Mr. Putin was invited to the European summit talks last month in Stockholm, and European leaders will gather for another summit meeting in Moscow in May.
Javier Solana, the European Union's top diplomat, said here today that a "strategic partnership is being shaped up" with Russia "in a very rapid manner and a very profound manner," most notably in the area of crisis management.
In his first year in office, Mr. Putin may have set a record for miles logged by a Russian or Soviet leader, with more than 18 foreign trips, not to mention a record-setting amount of travel within Russia. Much of his energy has been directed at cleaning up Soviet-era debts, from Havana to Hanoi, and at opening markets for Russia's nearly bankrupt heavy industries.
What initially sent Mr. Putin into motion last June was the prospect of a decision by President Bill Clinton on whether to start building a national missile defense system in violation of a 1972 treaty banning such systems. That decision was deferred after Mr. Putin helped to galvanize opposition.
Mr. Bush, by contrast, arrived in Washington with less experience in foreign affairs and has resisted an active American role in the Balkan conflicts and the Middle East peace effort. He has made clear that the United States will involve itself only where it sees American interests directly threatened. Although he is still new in office, his first and only trip abroad has been to Mexico.
His presidency has introduced a distinctly negative tone toward Russia, amplified by a contentious espionage dispute and policy debates that seem headed toward a significant downgrading of relations.
In response, Mr. Putin has moved closer to Europe; he has taken an important step toward settling a long-standing dispute with Japan over the Kurile Islands chain and he has sought to open significant new trading links with Asia. 
"I think he has made an incredibly effective use of the vacuum of policy we have in the United States, and he has been playing a weak hand rather strongly," said Michael McFaul, a specialist on Russia at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in Washington, who recently took a sampling of European views on United States-Russia relations.
"There are a lot of people around the world not too enamored with the Americans right now," Mr. McFaul said. "The Europeans see this too, and they are waiting for a response from Washington."
Mr. Putin's diplomacy is also about money.
In Korea, Mr. Putin hopes that reconciliation between North and South will allow the opening of a new rail transport corridor crossing both Koreas to connect the ports of Asia with Europe via the Trans-Siberian Railroad. That would bolster Russia's internal markets along the way.
In Iran, where sales of equipment by Russia have brought American opposition, Russia predicts that it will sell at least three nuclear power plants at the existing Bushehr site and two coal-fired power plants elsewhere.
Russian arms industries also hope to win contracts to rebuild Iran's air defense network and its conventional armed forces, devastated in the Iran-Iraq war of 1980 to 1988.
While critics point to the danger of selling arms that could be turned on Russia, Mr. Putin contends that Moscow can help to bring Iran out of its isolation, something the United States has long sought to achieve.
Though some of Mr. Putin's foreign policy ventures, especially in Iran, have touched off concerns at home and in the West, much of his diplomacy seems to be earning praise for Russia in Europe.
After leaders of the European Union met with Mr. Putin in Stockholm in late March, they announced that they were sending their own diplomatic mission to North Korea and would establish diplomatic relations with Pyongyang, in tandem with Mr. Putin's efforts to support reconciliation on the peninsula. European leaders said they were acting in consultation with the Bush administration, but Mr. Bush's team is conspicuously absent from the process.
Like Mr. Bush with regard to Russia, Mr. Putin has taken care to emphasize that his goal is a constructive dialogue with Washington. In an interview on the anniversary of his first year in office, Mr. Putin told Russian journalists that he was not trying to recreate the old Soviet alliances against the United States by visiting old Soviet haunts in Cuba, North Korea, Vietnam and India.
"Our foreign relations used to be based on ideology, and little, if anything, else," he said. "We pumped huge resources into some countries without knowing when we could expect anything in return, or sometimes without knowing why we were doing it at all.
"However," he added, "not everything was so thoughtless," like the oil exploration program Moscow runs with Vietnam. "So why should we lose the huge potential built up over decades?"
Russia's foreign policy, he said, "will not include any great power chauvinism" and he said he considered the United States "one of our major partners."
But privately, many Russian officials fear that under President Bush, that sentiment is no longer shared.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Vladimir V. Putin seeks a bigger role in European affairs. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (87%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); PEACE PROCESS (77%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (76%); INSPECTIONS (72%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (71%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (67%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (61%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); HOSNI MUBARAK (58%); KIM JONG IL (55%) TYLER, PATRICK E; PUTIN, VLADIMIR V (PRIME MIN); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); EGYPT (79%); SYRIA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); SWEDEN (79%); ASIA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ISRAEL (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2001 



183 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1723 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Treasury: No Lending; 
With Big Budget Surpluses, Some See The End of New Bonds and Notes

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
A world without a Treasury market? That was unimaginable a few years ago, when budget deficits stretched as far as the eye could see. But with a rising government surplus, the unthinkable no longer seems beyond the pale.
 Many traders and analysts, expecting the White House and Congress to give away most future surpluses through tax cuts and spending, still consider the Treasury market's demise unlikely. 
 But because the projected surpluses are large and have a momentum of their own, it could happen a lot faster than many think.
The United States, to make ends meet, has been borrowing since the nation was born, especially during wartime. But the Treasury market as we know it today did not take shape until the mid-1970's, when deficits soared in the wake of a severe recession and rising oil prices. The wild volatility of interest rates late in the decade and into the 80's focused intense attention on the bond market. 
That spawned the growth of a Wall Street infrastructure, fostered the bond-trading "masters of the universe" of "Bonfire of the Vanities" fame, and made the Treasury market the benchmark for the world's bond markets, a haven for cautious investors around the globe. 
But now, the trusty 30-year bond is threatened with retirement, a move recommended by a Treasury advisory group. Other maturities and types are also vulnerable. The last one-year Treasury bill was issued in February, and inflation-indexed bonds are on the chopping block.
Any threat to the Treasury market has been dismissed by many because they simply do not believe that the surpluses will last.
"That story is kind of on the back burner," said Thomas Connor, head government trader at J. P. Morgan. "The economic slowdown and the tax cut is going the opposite way of paying down the debt."
Yet pressing relentlessly against the Treasury market's viability is the expected size of budget surpluses compared with the amount of debt maturing each year. When the surplus exceeds the amount of old Treasury notes and bonds maturing, the government has no need to raise more cash to operate. So it will have a hard time arguing that it needs to keep selling new securities, including the 10-year note, which has already replaced the 30-year Treasury bond as the benchmark.
Barring surprises, the date when the government faces this matter may not be far away. Based on current forecasts, and assuming approval of President Bush's $1.6 trillion 10-year tax cut or of alternative legislation at similar cost, the surplus would exceed the total of maturing debt, including the cost of debt buybacks, in less than five years.
A mild recession would not delay that, according to the Congressional Budget Office's projections.
An accelerated tax cut and a sharper economic slowdown would significantly reduce the administration's anticipated surpluses. But even that might put the date off only a year or two. Pinning it down precisely is not possible because the date depends on the economy and the budget, as well as Treasury Department decisions on how fast to curb the issuance of new debt.
At the end of the 2005 fiscal year, there could be just over $2 trillion in publicly held Treasury debt, so it would still be traded. But without new issues, it may just be on life support. "A big part of what makes a market function well is the infusion of new debt," said John Youngdahl, a senior economist at Goldman, Sachs.
Thus, well before all the publicly held debt is paid off, a new touchstone may be required for the fixed-income markets. The pricing of corporate, agency, mortgage and other asset-backed bonds will have to start elsewhere. The usual hedging to reduce risk will have to be done with other securities. And new benchmarks will have to be found. All these functions will have to be performed without the special character of Treasuries: they are risk-free.
The Treasury market has for years been the safest place for conservative investors. Without Treasuries, they will scramble for alternatives. There would no Treasury safe harbor for investors to flee to in a crisis. "While it is difficult to discern the consequences of this for market dynamics and systemic risk," a new report from the International Monetary Fund says, "this issue has received relatively little attention both by policy makers and by market participants."
All this leaves the Bush Treasury with major decisions to make, including the immediate fate of the 30-year bond. Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill could decide to let market forces take their course, or he could try to keep the market working by continuing to issue new debt, even though it might not be necessary. One way to do this would be to create an exchange program, in which new debt is issued only in exchange for existing debt, so the total of debt outstanding does not increase.
Looming over the whole debate are the retiring baby boomers. Forecasts by the Congressional Budget Office and others say that deficits are likely to return as the full force of these retirements takes hold in the late 2020's, straining the Social Security and Medicare systems. At that point, again barring major surprises, government borrowing and the Treasury market would be back.
Many analysts and traders say the added cost of restarting the Treasury market would be much less than the cost of keeping it alive when it is not needed. It would be easy to restart, they argue, and is not the be-all and end-all that some believe. After all, the 30-year bond has been regularly auctioned only since 1977.
Treasury officials, while saying that they are considering all options, will not comment on specific proposals. "Any speculation about what we may or may not do can have a significant impact on the market," said Michael J. Paulus, deputy assistant secretary for federal finance.
The debate over the Bush budget has obscured the importance of the size of the surplus compared with the decline in maturing debt. But more participants in the Treasury market are seeing the end of Treasuries -- at least temporarily -- as inevitable.
"We still have to go through this period where the Treasury market ceases to function, whether the 10-year projections are right or not," said James M. Keller, executive vice president for government bond trading at Pimco, the asset management firm. "And that is what the Treasury has to plan for."
The Fed chairman, Alan Greenspan, has also endorsed closing the Treasury market. "It would be better to have a large Treasury debt outstanding so that those of us who deal in the financial markets have easy benchmarks and easy means of pricing and of funding," he told senators in February. But he added, "The trade-off very clearly says by far the most important thing is to get the debt down, and we will handle the problems as best we can."
Signs of adjustment are evident. The last outstanding three-year Treasury note matures in May. There have been sharp reductions in the amount of other Treasury securities, including the 10-year, 5-year and 2-year notes. Annual issuance of new debt had fallen nearly 50 percent by the 2000 fiscal year from 1996 levels.
When the Fed cut short-term interest rates in January, the first to follow its lead was the interest-rate swaps market, where investors exchange fixed-rate debt for variable-rate debt. And the yield on 10-year swaps fell further than that on the 10-year Treasury note.
Issuance of new debt by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, government-sponsored agencies that package home mortgages in bonds that are considered very safe but are not backed by the full faith and credit of the United States, is skyrocketing as these issuers seek to become the new benchmark for interest rates.
The Bond Market Association has approved guidelines for a when-issued market -- once reserved for Treasuries -- for these government agency securities to allow trading between the time a new issue is announced and the settlement date.
The Fed, which has operated through the Treasury market to move interest rates, is broadening the list of non-Treasury securities it will accept in this process. Candidates include certain state debt and the debt of foreign governments.
Traders at some Wall Street firms say that as much as 90 percent of the hedging of risk they see in the fixed-income market is now done with interest-rate swaps. And the role of the Treasury market in key indexes of the fixed-income market is shrinking. At its peak early in 1986, the Treasury bond market made up 50 percent of the Lehman Brothers aggregate bond index. It is now 26 percent, behind mortgages at 35 percent and soon to slip to third behind the corporate bond market.
James R. Capra, president of Capra Asset Management and chairman of the Treasury's Wall Street advisory committee, put the situation personally: "I am going to be out of business if I am only in Treasuries. The situation is moving inexorably in that direction."
But the fight to save the Treasury market is in full swing. A Bond Market Association committee, separate from the one advising the Treasury, is recommending Treasury exchange programs to keep the market functioning as long as possible. This could prolong the useful life of the 30-year bond and of the 10-year note, as well.
Even with outstanding debt at a low level, "it behooves the Treasury to keep issuing new debt with an exchange," said Charles Parkhurst, managing director for government bond trading at Salomon Smith Barney. But asked if the market will function well this way or be on life support, he replied, "You are not going to know until you get there."
Gary Gensler, the Treasury official who oversaw government debt markets during the Clinton administration, said he still thought "there will be a viable Treasury market throughout all this period because the United States government will be a safer, yet smaller and stronger borrower." But he acknowledges that "other securities will come to be relied on as pricing vehicles, hedging vehicles and benchmarks."
What Treasury officials decide to do depends a lot on how they balance the main goals of managing a government bond market: financing the federal government, doing it at the lowest cost, and promoting efficient capital markets.
Will these add up to keeping the Treasury market alive just because the public has had one it liked for a quarter of a century? Stay tuned.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A decision on whether, when and how to end new lending would occupy Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill and top assistants. Or they could let market forces fix a timetable. (Photographs by Paul Hosefros/The New York Times top ; Reuters)(pg. C1); A 1941 poster by John C. Atherton indicated that Uncle Sam wanted your investment funds, as well. (The Museum of Modern Art)(pg. C2) Chart: "Contemplating a Treasury Bulging With Cash"If, as current projections suggest, the government surplus soon becomes larger than the amount of Treasury notes and bonds maturing each year, it will be much harder for the government to keep issuing the new debt that is the lifeblood of the market. PAYING OFF THE DEBTChart shows maturing debt each year* and annual surplus, Bush budget. CUMULATIVE SURPLUSChart shows Cumulative Surplus under current policy and under Bush budget plan. *Maturing debt includes existing debt that is maturing; assumes issuance of new debt that will mature through 2010 and assumes the government will continue to buy back debt.(Sources: President George W. Bush's budget proposal; Congressional Budget Office; Treasury Department)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOND MARKETS (95%); BONDS (93%); BUDGETS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BOND ISSUES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); RECESSION (88%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); APPROVALS (73%); DEBT NOTES (73%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (68%); INTEREST RATES (53%) FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%) TREASURY DEPARTMENT 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%) FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN; O'NEILL, PAUL H (SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2001 



184 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 704 words

HEADLINE: Public Interests; 
California Schemin'

BYLINE:  By GAIL COLLINS 

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO 

 BODY:
Arnold Schwarzenegger is mulling a race for governor of California. There are reasons to regard this as a really positive development.
 1) The demands of candidacy would probably require an indefinite postponement of "Terminator III." 
 2) The cost of the campaign would give a much-needed boost to California's slowing economy. 
3) If Jesse Ventura runs for re-election in 2002, we might all have a chance to live in a nation that includes two governors who starred in the movie "Predator."
The current governor of California, Gray Davis, is stuck with a dreadful energy crisis. It is not of his own making, but it's not of his own ending either, and people are getting frustrated. The Republicans do not have a plan to fix things, but they have discovered through the miracles of hindsight that the whole crisis could have been solved last summer if only Mr. Davis had shown "bold leadership." 
"Well, that's not his style. He's an incremental kind of guy. He's being bolder on this than he normally is on stuff," said John Burton, the Democratic president pro tem of the Senate, in an excellent demonstration of the enthusiasm for Mr. Davis that reigns within his own party.
The rules for a democracy would seem to suggest that people ought to be standing in line to run against Mr. Davis next year. But so far the only declared candidate is Secretary of State Bill Jones. A farmer from Fresno, Mr. Jones doesn't seem to have an energy plan, although he enthusiastically yells "procrastination and timidity!" every time the governor's name is mentioned. 
The key to Mr. Davis's power is the $26 million he has in his campaign treasury. Mr. Jones has around $100,000. "He's never been a good fund-raiser -- he's never demonstrated he can raise two nickels to rub together," said Garry South, the Davis campaign strategist, in a tone of extreme contempt.
There's a general consensus that anybody who wants to take the nomination away from Mr. Jones is going to have to be what politicians delicately call "self-financing," and California's supply of obscenely rich people with time on their hands has not been entirely depleted by the recent economic unpleasantness.
William Simon Jr., the son of the former Treasury secretary, has established an exploratory committee. He has no political experience, but he is blessed with a stirring riches-to-riches personal saga. (Sal Russo, Mr. Simon's consultant, says his client and his family ran "an old-fashioned merchant banking company," in a valiant attempt to make that particular line of work sound cozy.) Beyond that, nobody knows a thing about him. 
"No interviews," said Mr. Russo. Mr. Simon's position on the energy crisis, he added, is that Gray Davis should show more leadership.
Mr. Schwarzenegger, who has had previous political experience as the 1990 chairman of the President's Council on Physical Fitness, seems to be enjoying the attention, despite a recent spate of stories portraying him as a compulsive groper, which Mr. South diligently faxed to the California press corps.
"Arnold, who I sat down and talked with at his request, I have great respect for," said Mr. Jones. "It was a good conversation." Mr. Schwarzenegger's end seems to have been a little brief. "To be candid," the secretary of state revealed, "he said: 'We're looking at it.' "
Beyond the actor formerly known as Conan the Barbarian and his own mystery candidate, Mr. Russo said the list of possible alternatives to Mr. Jones includes Robert Conrad the actor and Ben Stein the comedian.
"If I can be of some service at the appropriate time, I'd be happy to move forward," said Mr. Conrad, whose old TV series "Baa Baa Black Sheep" can now be seen on the History Channel. His most recent political experience has included serving as the designated Republican celebrity to attack Martin Sheen for calling President Bush "a moron." 
Mr. Conrad, who stressed the need for leadership in the energy crisis, said he did not think Mr. Schwarzenegger would make a credible candidate: "I don't think he can handle the heat. And he's from Austria."
Maybe, if we wish hard, they'll both run. Then we can have a California Republican primary in which two of the candidates appeared in the movie "Jingle All the Way." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); POLITICS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); FUNDRAISING (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (62%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (62%); BANKING & FINANCE (62%); MERCHANT BANKING (50%) ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); FINANCES 

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (89%) COLLINS, GAIL; DAVIS, GRAY (GOV); SCHWARZENEGGER, ARNOLD; STEIN, BEN; CONRAD, ROBERT 

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); FRESNO, CA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2001 



185 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 127 words

HEADLINE: Second-Guessing Alan Greenspan 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re "Suddenly, Critics Are Taking Aim at Greenspan" (front page, April 2): 
 Much of the criticism is unwarranted. 
The Federal Reserve has only one weapon, the interest rate. This can affect only the cost of funds, and business and consumer psychology. 
The Fed is not omnipotent. Fiscal policy must do its share. President Bush has been preventing a fast 2001 tax decrease by tying the short-term tax decrease to his long-term plan. Congress is preventing a fast 2001 tax decrease by debating endlessly who gets what this year and beyond.
Politics is trumping economics. Even a sagacious monetary policy cannot compensate for foolish fiscal policy.

PETER GUTMANN
New York, April 2, 2001

The writer is a professor of economics at Baruch College, CUNY.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); MONETARY POLICY (88%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (87%); INTEREST RATES (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (90%) GUTMANN, PETER (PROF); GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2001 



186 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 127 words

HEADLINE: Second-Guessing Alan Greenspan 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re "Suddenly, Critics Are Taking Aim at Greenspan" (front page, April 2): 
 The Federal Reserve did not give the private markets a chance to do their job of allocating scarce resources. 
In pursuing a "soft landing" -- depressing the economy's growth rate -- the Fed made matters worse by reinforcing contractionary forces already at work. 
Had the Fed pursued its primary function of providing a smooth flow of liquidity in support of noninflationary growth at whatever rate the economy generates instead of undertaking the role of economic manager, the present painful slowdown could have been greatly mitigated.

LEON KOROBOW
Great Neck, N.Y., April 3, 2001

The writer is a retired assistant vice president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); INTEREST RATES (70%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INTEREST RATES; CREDIT 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (70%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (70%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (70%) SIC6011 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK; 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (90%) GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN); KOROBOW, LEON 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2001 



187 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 126 words

HEADLINE: Second-Guessing Alan Greenspan 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Your comments about the change of attitude toward the Federal Reserve and its chairman, Alan Greenspan, indicate that economists, news commentators and politicians are beginning to see that the Fed does not control everything (front page, April 2). 
 Over recent decades, it has been convenient to believe that business growth and individual economic welfare are largely determined by the Fed -- likewise, that the Federal Reserve and its chairman can be blamed for any financial difficulties.
The fact is that nothing the Fed can do can overcome the fiscal policy effects of government spending, especially deficit spending.

MARSHALL E. SURRATT
Dallas, April 3, 2001

The writer, a former assistant national bank examiner, was a commercial banker.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); ECONOMIC POLICY (87%); WRITERS (86%); BUDGET DEFICITS (85%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (82%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); INTEREST RATES (59%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INTEREST RATES; CREDIT 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (90%) GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN); SURRATT, MARSHALL E 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2001 



188 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 160 words

HEADLINE: Second-Guessing Alan Greenspan 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Steven Rattner is far too generous in his defense of Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman ("The Flip Side of Fed Worship," Op-Ed, April 4). While Mr. 
Greenspan did give his famous "irrational exuberance" warning in December 1996, he backed away from those words in subsequent comments. 
 At times, he even suggested that the extraordinary valuations in the market could make sense. The basic arithmetic of the price-to-earnings ratio noted by Mr. Rattner showed otherwise. 
There was no plausible story that could have made sense of an average price-to-earnings ratio of more than 30, which we saw at the market's peak, or even the 23 we see today. 
If Mr. Greenspan had lectured on this point with the same fervor that he has lectured on other topics, like deficit reduction, it is unlikely that the bubble would have ever grown as large as it did.

DEAN BAKER
Co-director, Center for Economic and Policy Research
Washington, April 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); BONDS (66%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; STOCKS AND BONDS 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (92%); STEVEN RATTNER (88%) GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN); BAKER, DEAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2001 



189 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1342 words

HEADLINE: COLLISION WITH CHINA: THE OVERVIEW; 
BUSH AIDES SAYING SOME HOPE IS SEEN TO END STANDOFF

BYLINE:  By JANE PERLEZ and DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 5 

 BODY:
Bush administration officials said today that they saw some hope of resolving the standoff with China after Beijing, for the first time, expressed some appreciation of American offers of "regret" for the spy plane incident.
 Administration officials said there was talk with the Chinese of formulas that would allow both sides to save face and move toward freeing the plane's crew. The 24 members are being held on Hainan Island, where they made an emergency landing after a collision with a Chinese jet fighter on Sunday. 
 President Bush added his own public regrets today during an appearance before the annual meeting of the American Society of Newspaper Editors. In response to a question, he delivered a careful statement that included support for deep economic ties with China. The remarks were a signal to Chinese leaders that if they end the incident quickly, he is ready to resume Washington's ordinary -- if ambiguous and uncomfortable -- relationship. 
"I regret that a Chinese pilot is missing and I regret that one of their airplanes is lost," Mr. Bush said. "Our prayers go out to the pilot, his family."
Talks between senior State Department officials and the Chinese Foreign Ministry have progressed from sporadic conversations to what one official called "rolling diplomacy" of round-the-clock talks between the two capitals.
By this afternoon, senior administration officials were suggesting that they use an obscure 1998 pact between China and the United States, the Military Maritime Consultation Agreement, as a mechanism for examining the incident and setting up rules that would keep spy planes and their pursuers apart.
The agreement was intended to establish a way for the two militaries to talk to each other and prevent exactly this kind of incident. So far, however, military officials from the United States and China have met only infrequently, and usually at a relatively low level.
"It's an empty vessel, but it's a forum, and it may help create an opening," said Kurt Campbell, an Asia specialist who, while serving in the Defense Department under President Clinton, helped negotiate the agreement.
It was unclear exactly how the Bush administration hoped to use the agreement. Some suggested convening the two militaries on an urgent basis either just before or just after the release of the 24 crew members, whom the administration calls "detainees," not hostages or prisoners.
American officials say there is some risk in using the agreement, however, because it takes some of the negotiations out of the hands of China's Foreign Ministry, which is heavily invested in good relations with the United States, and gives the role to the Chinese military.
"What can you do?" one senior administration official asked today. "At the end of the day you've got to bring the military along. The crew is being held on a military base." This official described the military as "the most important political constituency in China."
What especially heartened American officials today was the frequency of their contacts with the Chinese, and the fact that the Foreign Ministry appeared to have the go-ahead to negotiate an understanding, even if it will require approval by other political forces in Beijing. 
China's ambassador to the United States, Yang Jiechi, returned to the State Department again this morning after receiving a letter on Wednesday night from Secretary of State Colin L. Powell that expressed in writing the United States' regret for the missing pilot and the plight of his family. 
But China has yet to formally respond to the letter, which was addressed to Deputy Prime Minister Qian Qichen, the top foreign affairs official.
Mr. Bush has instructed his staff to tone down anti-China rhetoric, and today, for the first time, most of the administration appeared to be heeding that call, even the Pentagon, where anger over the collision runs high.
"The message to the Chinese is, we should not let this incident destabilize relations," Mr. Bush said. "Our relationship with China is very important. But they need to realize that it's time for our people to be home."
Mr. Bush reiterated his administration's characterization of China as "a strategic competitor," adding: "But that doesn't mean we can't find areas in which we can partner. And the economy's a place where we can partner."
But he carefully avoided any apology or statement of American responsibility for the accident. And one of the key objectives for the administration has been to persuade the Chinese to accept statements of regret -- orally from the president, in writing and orally from General Powell -- rather than a full-blown apology.
A spokesman for the Foreign Affairs Ministry described General Powell's letter as a good first step. 
But China experts warned that the Chinese are acutely attuned to the difference between a regret and an apology, and they suspected that even Mr. Bush's words today would not prove sufficient.
"It's very difficult, because the words in Chinese are very specific," said Robert Suettinger, a senior policy analyst at the Rand Corporation. "The Japanese have expressed remorse and deep introspection" over World War II, he noted, "and the Chinese just don't buy it."
The conditions here are different, of course: This was an accident, not an act of war or occupation. But it is also a test of wills between the world's sole superpower and Asia's biggest power. As one State Department official with long experience in Asia said: "We run the risk here of this becoming a strutting contest. That's what we've got to avoid."
Six days after the collision, it was still unclear how long it would take to win the crew's release.
The State Department spokesman, Richard Boucher, while careful not to express any overt optimism that a solution was at hand, said today that "intensive discussions" were under way, and that the talks "are at a sensitive moment."
A senior administration official stressed that while the diplomacy was "moving in the right direction," it could turn the other way.
One of the main difficulties for the administration is assessing decision- making processes in Beijing, which one senior official called "complicated at best."
So far the talks are taking place virtually exclusively with the Foreign Ministry in Beijing, which is not considered an especially powerful force in the Chinese bureaucracy. What kind of control China's diplomats will have over a final decision to release the crew is murky; its military will almost certainly have a voice. 
And President Jiang is traveling. While he is said to have sophisticated communications, it is unclear whether he is willing to take the political risk of adjudicating between competing forces in his own government.
In words intended to bolster the administration's case, the president of the United States Chamber of Commerce issued a warning today that the incident could lead Congress once again to threaten trade ties with China. 
"We want the Chinese government to understand that failure to resolve this matter in the immediate future could and would likely damage the current and potential economic exchange between the companies in our two nations," said the official, Thomas Donohue. 
But China may dismiss such warnings because a reduction in trade would hurt American companies as much as they would hurt China. --------------------

Jiang Puts Relations First

SANTIAGO, Chile, April 5 (Reuters) -- President Jiang Zemin said today that China and the United States should place the highest priority on bilateral relations in resolving their spy plane dispute.
"I want to emphasize that Chinese and U.S. leaders should manage this situation with maximum interest in bilateral relations in order to find an adequate solution," he said on his arrival in Chile, at the start of a 12-day tour of Latin America.
Asked by reporters when China would release the crew of the American spy plane, he noted that the Americans were safe, but added: "The American planes come to the border of our country and do not ask forgiveness. Is this behavior acceptable?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Meeting yesterday in Washington with newspaper editors, President Bush expressed regret about the loss of a Chinese pilot in the collision. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (87%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); HOSTAGE TAKING (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MILITARY AIRCRAFT; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); BILL CLINTON (59%) PERLEZ, JANE; SANGER, DAVID E; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (73%) SOUTH CHINA (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); HAINAN, CHINA (73%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); ASIA (79%) CHINA; HAINAN ISLAND (CHINA)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2001 



190 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 491 words

HEADLINE: Central Bank Of Britain Lowers Rates 

BYLINE:  By SUZANNE KAPNER 

DATELINE: LONDON, April 5 

 BODY:
The Bank of England lowered short-term interest rates today, the second reduction this year, to offset the effects of a slowdown in the United States economy and sharp declines in world stock markets, which threaten to derail growth in Britain.
 The widely expected decision to reduce the benchmark rate by one-quarter point, to 5.5 percent, reduces the gap between British rates and those in the 12 nations that are adopting the euro currency to the narrowest since the euro was introduced in 1999. But it also lays some groundwork for the European Central Bank to make another rate reduction when it meets next Wednesday, widening the gap again. 
 Some economists said Britain was better placed than many other countries to weather the effects of the apparent slowdown in the United States. For one thing, they said, Britain has not grown as fast in recent years, and so had fewer gains to lose in a decline.
Michael Taylor, an economist with Merrill Lynch in London, expected British economic growth to outpace both Europe and America this year, for the first time since 1995.
Though demand is slackening abroad, British consumer appetite, as gauged by retail sales, house prices and sales of durable goods, has remained robust, Mr. Taylor said. The unemployment rate is at its lowest in 25 years. And the government has the means to stimulate the economy both by spending more (a 4 percent increase is forecast this year) and by taxing less. Some $:9 billion ($12.9 billion) in tax cuts are scheduled, Mr. Taylor said.
Conditions in Britain look especially rosy compared with its neighbors on the Continent, where business confidence in Germany and France has been slipping in recent months and both inflation and unemployment are on the rise in some countries. And an interest rate cut by the European Central Bank was fraught with more risks than the Bank of England's move, economists said.
"Sentiment has dropped off more quickly in Europe than in the U.K.," said Robert Jukes, an economist with Credit Suisse First Boston in London.
The Bank of England's monetary policy committee voiced concern about the way trends in other economies would affect demand at home in a statement accompanying today's rate cut announcement. 
"While growth in final domestic demand has remained firm, there are downside risks to U.K. activity from the slowdown in the global economy, the recent fall in equity markets and, in the short run, from foot-and-mouth disease," the statement said.
The bank customarily releases more complete details of the panel's decisions later in the month.
British stocks rose today, with the FTSE 100 index gaining 1.6 percent, to 5,621 points. But analysts said the jump had more to do with a global rally in technology and telecommunications shares, which had hit lows recently, than with the reduction in interest rates, which had been widely expected.
The Bank of England also reduced rates by one-quarter point in February. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); EURO (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TRENDS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); CURRENCIES (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (73%); BONDS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); TAX INCENTIVES (72%); DURABLE GOODS (71%); RETAIL SALES (66%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (66%); GLOBALIZATION (65%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (64%); TAX LAW (64%); DENTAL MOUTH & JAW DISORDERS (64%); HOME PRICES (51%); FOOT & MOUTH DISEASE (50%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (72%); BANK OF ENGLAND (58%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (58%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (57%) EUROPEAN UNION; BANK OF ENGLAND 

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); CSGN (SWX) (58%); CS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (58%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (58%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%)

PERSON: KAPNER, SUZANNE 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) UNITED KINGDOM (96%); EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (77%) GREAT BRITAIN; EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2001 



191 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1211 words

HEADLINE: The Silent Majority Party 

BYLINE:  By George Packer; George Packer is the author of "The Village of Waiting" and, most recently, "Blood of the Liberals."

 BODY:
When Republicans lose elections, they respond as if the loss were someone else's mistake, or even a cosmic disturbance in the nature of things. They vow to stick to their guns, redouble their efforts and restore the proper order next time. When Democrats lose elections, they experience defeat as total repudiation and start asking themselves the kind of existential questions inspired by an encounter with death: What is the basis for my being? What is the purpose of all my efforts? Have I already died?
 These mental habits partly account for the far greater single-mindedness of the Republicans in the Battle of Florida: from Election Day on they acted as if they had a natural right to win. But since President Bush's inauguration, the party that won the presidential popular vote and an equal split in the Senate, while staying about even in the House, has largely fallen silent in the face of repeated provocation. When President Bush broke his campaign promise to cap carbon dioxide emissions and then shrugged off the Kyoto Protocol on global warming, Al Gore, the candidate who won the popular vote by half a million, was apparently too busy mending fences in Tennessee to say one word about an issue that once inspired him to write an entire book. 
 One might imagine that the Democrats' confusion or paralysis is due to their being used to holding power. In fact, it's the opposite. They have retreated to a deeply familiar posture: the defensive cringe. The psychology of defeat is strongly ingrained in Democrats, especially those under 50. Born in 1960, I had entered my fourth decade before I cast a vote for a winning presidential candidate. Many of the party's recent heroes made their reputations and gave their great speeches amid the pathos of noble defeat: Eugene McCarthy resurrecting Adlai Stevenson at the 1960 convention ("Do not leave this prophet without honor in his own party"); Edward Kennedy in 1980, Mario Cuomo in 1984 and Jesse Jackson in 1988 making passionate appeals to the party's traditional commitment to the downtrodden.
The conservative movement of the late 20th century framed the terms of political debate so successfully that the Democratic position became the embattled view on a host of issues. For years, Democrats tried to win elections by disguising or blurring their true thoughts, or else by exchanging them for others. They weren't for more spending, just fiscal responsibility. They weren't really against tax cuts, but they wanted to save Social Security first. They wanted to mend affirmative action, not end it. They wouldn't ask, and they wouldn't tell.
The Clinton years helped rid Democrats of the labels -- soft on crime and welfare, big-spending, unpatriotic -- that had stuck to them since the 60's. But the habits of mental defensiveness and disguise are not as easy to break, and it's possible that for some the disguise became reality. Mr. Clinton himself achieved most of his success by turning these habits into a master strategy. Throughout the 90's, the rationale for the party's creeping centrism was victory.
Now, out of power, Democrats enjoy the luxury of being, in terms of their positions on issues, an opposition party closer to the majority of Americans than is the party in power -- with that much more freedom to say what they mean.
The question is, do Democrats know what they mean? And if they know, can they break old habits and say it now that the price is no longer likely defeat?
The election of 2000 was not the election of 1980 or 1994. The once-formidable conservative movement is spent. If the second Bush presidency has a governing ideology, it isn't the populist conservatism that emboldened Republicans from Ronald Reagan to Newt Gingrich with the potent message, "Get the government off my back." It's simply, "Long live big business," the philosophy of McKinley, Harding and Coolidge. According to a recent poll, two-thirds of Americans think President Bush cares more about the interests of large corporations than about the interests of ordinary people. This is not a philosophy that Republicans can speak plainly, so they find themselves in the disadvantageous position that Democrats held for so long: they have to blur and disguise, to manipulate language into sequences of poll-tested catchwords like "civility" and "bipartisan." But in case there's any lingering doubt, the administration's actions, from ergonomics to arsenic, indicate that the disguise is only that. 
George W. Bush's presidency is almost forcing Democrats to declare their core belief. Do they have one as simple and powerful as the Republicans' "freedom"? For most of the party's history, it could be summed up in the word "equality." In the 19th century, the Democratic idea of equality meant opposition to government interventions in economic life because these tended to favor the wealthy and powerful.
In the 20th century, equality meant support for government programs that insulated ordinary people against the harsher effects of industrial capitalism. Perhaps the word will mean something different in the 21st century. A useful role for the Democratic Party would be to articulate it.
Today the word equality might not fly with focus groups; it is easily taken to mean coercive redistribution or, in the Republicans' favorite phrase, class warfare. Throughout American history, it has almost always meant equality of opportunity, not of condition. But when the ideal of equal opportunity is mocked by vast inequality of condition, Americans start losing their sense of a common purpose or fate. 
This is increasingly the reality in an age of Internet billionaires, the working poor and a middle class left largely alone by government to deal with vast economic changes. President Bush's actions and proposals make the mockery of equality complete, and nothing demonstrates this more dramatically than his drive to eliminate the estate tax, a move that would entrench a hereditary aristocracy like the one that created George W. Bush.
The fact that total repeal of the estate tax now seems unlikely shows that a bias toward equality still informs Americans' sensibilities. The fact that it took a public campaign by billionaires to bring those sensibilities into focus shows the lack of direction from the Democratic Party leadership.
It's a mistake, though, to think of a party just in terms of its leaders. Waiting for someone to step forward and replace the disgraced Bill Clinton or the muted Al Gore is beside the point. Both parties have become fund-raising machines, and the only way to change their direction is the hard way, from below.
In a new book, "Before the Storm," Rick Perlstein shows how grass-roots Republicans responded to Barry Goldwater's landslide defeat in 1964 -- not by trying to install new party leaders, but by forming think tanks, training activists, knocking on doors and electing true believers to local offices. Conservative Republicans, who knew what they were about, refused to be discouraged by a mere 16-million-vote defeat. Instead, they took it to mean that they could move the country in their direction. By 1980 their new Goldwater had emerged as president.
Al Gore lost, officially, by 537 votes. All that's left is for Democrats to decide what they're about.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Angus McWilton) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); SOCIAL SECURITY (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); PSYCHOLOGY (70%); EMISSIONS (67%); GLOBAL WARMING (67%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (67%); GREENHOUSE GASES (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (62%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (50%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); TED KENNEDY (58%); AL GORE (58%); JESSE JACKSON (53%) PACKER, GEORGE; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2001 



192 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: Tax Cut in the Balance 

 BODY:
In a development that few expected even a couple of days ago, President Bush's destructive $1.6 trillion tax cut proposal is suddenly in serious trouble in the Senate. Despite a furious lobbying campaign led by Vice President Dick Cheney, at least two Republican senators are not budging in their demand that the tax cut be reduced to make room for spending on education and other needs. Several Democrats who are being subjected to White House pressure are also hanging firm. Their principled stand could make it possible for Congress to step back today from the brink of passing a tax-relief measure that is increasingly seen by voters as too big, too unfair and too slow in helping the economy. 
 The impasse over the tax cut has emerged as the first serious test of President Bush's legislative skills, not to mention his constantly repeated pledge to govern in a bipartisan fashion. If bipartisanship means enforcing total discipline in your own party and bludgeoning one or two Democrats to join your side with a mixture of promises and threats, Mr. Bush could still win as the Senate moves today toward adoption of a budget resolution. But if bipartisanship means listening to the thoughtful criticism of the opposition and trying to find common ground, Mr. Bush has a chance to display it now in the Senate. The Senate is trying to finish its spending plan for the next fiscal year before adjourning today for a recess, so there is not much time for Mr. Bush to decide what kind of president he is going to be. 
 The trouble for the $1.6 trillion tax cut began on Wednesday when the Senate approved an amendment proposed by Tom Harkin, an Iowa Democrat, to reduce it to $1.15 trillion. The three Republican defectors were Lincoln Chafee of Rhode Island, who won election last year by declaring that he thought Mr. Bush's tax cut was too big; James Jeffords of Vermont, who wants $180 billion of the tax cut set aside instead to bolster federal spending on special education programs; and Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania. 
To get Mr. Jeffords to change his mind, Republicans have reportedly suggested that he find the money elsewhere, like the $800 billion "contingency fund" set up by the White House for other needs. But that offer is obviously empty. The contingency fund is already oversubscribed by other commitments like defense, prescription drugs for the elderly and farm programs. Mr. Jeffords's position is a recognition that the tax cut leaves insufficient room for vital domestic needs, defense spending and paying down the debt.
The White House lobbying effort is also concentrating on Democrats, who have begun referring to Mr. Cheney's office near the Senate floor as the "torture chamber." Today we urge these Democrats to stand firm, despite the White House blandishments. 
Among the waverers are Senators Robert Torricelli of New Jersey, Mary Landrieu of Louisiana, Max Baucus of Montana, Ben Nelson of Nebraska and Max Cleland of Georgia. If ever the cause of sound government needed them, it is now. Some of these Democrats say they might be willing to support a compromise advanced by John Breaux of Louisiana for a $1.25 trillion tax cut, which Mr. Chafee and Mr. Jeffords also support.
Because it is a non-binding budget resolution that the Senate is considering, whatever is decided today is not the final word. But it is imperative for those thoughtful senators whose critique of the tax cut has begun to resonate with the voters not to give in to favors or threats from the White House or their colleagues. It is a moment for the Senate to exercise the considered and independent judgment that has long been its ideal. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX RELIEF (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); TAX LAW (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); APPROPRIATIONS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); EDUCATION FUNDING (76%); APPROVALS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); DEFENSE SPENDING (71%); SPECIAL EDUCATION (50%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%) TAXATION; EDITORIALS; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); DICK CHENEY (78%); MARY LANDRIEU (58%); ARLEN SPECTER (58%); LINCOLN CHAFEE (57%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); CHENEY, DICK (VICE PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2001 



193 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1426 words

HEADLINE: A Dream $8.57 an Hour Can't Buy 

BYLINE:  By TIMOTHY EGAN 

DATELINE: HELENA, Mont. 

 BODY:
From the window of her apartment on a hill in Helena, Carrie Villa can see the Sleeping Giant, the mountain formation on the northern horizon that looks just like its name and holds the dream Ms. Villa has been nurturing through 10 hard years.
 "I want a house of my own, nothing fancy, on a little piece of land, and that's it," said Ms. Villa, a 40-year-old mother of two. Nearly every hour of every day, Ms. Villa thinks about how to squeeze another dollar out of her life so that aging is not just a marathon of dream deferment. 
 On the day in late March when President Bush came to Montana to promote his tax cut plan, Ms. Villa took out a calculator and a tax form and did some numbers. Until it began dominating the news that week in Big Sky country, she had not given a thought to the proposal. 
She heard the president talk about a "typical family" making $40,000 a year, and how the economic experts estimated that the Bush plan would return $1,600 to that family. But after doing the numbers, what Ms. Villa discovered was that the president's tax cut would not put a single extra dime in her pocket.
Like the rest of the Mountain West, Montana is Bush country. The former governor, Marc Racicot, was one of his earliest and biggest supporters, and in November, Mr. Bush got 58 percent of the vote. But it is also a poor state, ranking dead last among the states in average wage per job, at $23,037.
The typical family touted by the president is hard to find. Only about 15 percent of all households in Montana qualify for the $1,600 tax cut, and the majority qualify for much less, preliminary analyses by state and Congressional revenue experts say.
Still, a sampling of opinion finds consistent support for the tax cut. People say they favor lower taxes in the same way they say they are ready for winter to end.
"Sure, I'd like a tax cut," Ms. Villa said. "But from what I can see, it's not going to change anything for me."
Trying to balance her finances, Ms. Villa puts the absolute necessities on one side: rent, food, electricity, gas for the old Mazda pickup, clothes for her two children, minimum payments on her three credit cards, and a little bit she throws at the ubiquitous casinos that have become somewhat of a substitute for tax policy in this state.
On the other side of the ledger is her salary -- $17,800 a year -- from her full-time job as a secretary for a state agency here in the capital. She pays virtually nothing in federal income tax, but the payroll tax -- for Social Security and Medicare -- takes about $45 from her paycheck every two weeks.
Under one plan being floated by Democrats in Washington, Ms. Villa would get a $300 rebate check this year. Ms. Villa had not heard of the idea and shrugged at the thought that she would get anything out of the Washington debate. But Republicans have played down the chances of such a plan, putting their hopes on the Bush tax cut. 
Which leaves Ms. Villa staring north at the Sleeping Giant, wondering how to get herself closer to the dream. "If I could make $10 an hour," she said, "I'd be happy. Then I could set a little bit aside every month."
Whether the tax cut would jump-start this state's morbid economy is a subject of debate. Montana's Democratic senator, Max Baucus, says he favors an immediate tax cut to stimulate the economy, but is wary of President Bush's $1.6 trillion 10-year plan. He appeared with Mr. Bush in Billings and smiled as the president put pressure on him before a cheering crowd of about 10,000 people.
But afterward, he said, there was no great surge of people calling, writing or e-mailing him to get behind the Bush plan.
"The general reaction I get is mixed," said Mr. Baucus, the lone Democrat in Montana's three-person delegation, and a prime target of Republicans in next year's elections. "People want a tax cut, but they want something that's going to be good for Montana."
What is good for Montana -- at least on paper -- is government, the leading employer. For every tax dollar Montana sends to Washington, $1.73 is sent back.
The big boom that came to the rest of the West skipped Montana. Still, Carrie Villa sees the help wanted signs all over Helena, an old town that looks like dice thrown against the brown felt table of the eastern Rocky Mountain front. There is a hiring sign in the Albertson's grocery store, one in the minimart, one in front of the J. C. Penney store. Ms. Villa has a high school diploma, good secretarial skills, a pleasant personality and a good work ethic.
Not long ago, she interviewed for a clerk's job at a store offering to pay $9.50 an hour.
"I got really excited," Ms.Villa said. "Nine-fifty an hour -- that's about a buck an hour more than I make now. And then I asked them if they had any kind of health insurance and they said, 'Nope, that's why we can pay $9.50 an hour.' "
She turned it down because her present job pays health insurance. And with two children, ages 12 and 13, she says she cannot afford walk-in costs for doctor's care.
As it is now, any emergency forces her deeper into credit card debt. Some months, she uses Visa to pay for groceries and gas. One of her credit cards has reached its limit of $2,000. Another is "maxed out," Ms. Villa said, at $4,000. She owes $1,200 on a third one, but has $2,700 until it reaches the limit.
"I'm trying to keep something open just in case my truck needs major work," she said.
Ms. Villa moved to Montana 20 years ago from California, following a boyfriend. She married and had children. Her husband was a mechanic. Their finances were always tight. Off and on over the last 10 years, she has worked as a secretary for the state, trying to juggle the job with child-rearing chores. Then came divorce, and with custody of her children, Ms. Villa took a second job to help make ends meet.
"I worked at the Towne Pump -- it's a minimart -- two nights a week, for minimum wage, $5.15 an hour," she said. "That $5.15 may not sound like much, but you really work for that money. The people were nice, though."
Once, this was known as a union state, where miners, sawmill workers and others made good wages and exercised political clout with a big fist. In tough towns like Butte, class warfare was not a parlor game subject but a street fight.
Now, mining, timber, oil and gas jobs make up barely 5 percent of all jobs in this state. Government is 20 percent. But people say, almost reflexively, that they would like less government and less taxes.
Ms. Villa has been wondering whether anything coming out of Washington will help with the few extra dollars she says she needs to get out of her rut. With the earned income credit for working parents, her salary is at the level where she does not have to pay federal income tax. The Bush plan would not change her status.
The night job for minimum wage at the Towne Pump was a strain, taking her away from her children, so she gave it up last year, focusing on her full-time secretarial work.
Last year, she was able to get into an apartment that is partly subsidized by federal low-income assistance. She also gets food stamps. And this year she got a raise. But what should have been good news only set her back further.
"I was making $8.31 an hour and then I got this raise to $8.57," she said. "But that little raise meant that my share of housing went up $8 a month, and my food stamps allowance went down $3, so the whole thing cost me more money that it gave me."
This winter, as Montana got snared in the California energy crisis, her electricity bills went up $8 a month. "I keep thinking, and trying to find a way, but no matter how hard I try, I just feel stuck," she said.
On her days off, in the summer, she takes the children swimming in the lakes or camping in the mountains. "Of course, they'd like to go to Disneyland, and sometimes I just feel like putting it all on the credit card and going for it," she said.
One Friday night she won $180 on electronic poker. She took the children out to dinner and paid $60 on her credit card debt, she said.
The poker winnings got her no closer to the Sleeping Giant. Of course, she could always move away, to a state with higher wages. She has thought about that, but not seriously.
"I love this state," Ms. Villa said of a place Montanans like to call the last best place. "It's hard to live here, but you don't live in Montana for the money anyhow."
This is the second article in a series about how taxpayers at varying income levels would be affected by the Bush tax cut proposal. Future installments will focus on a a Texas doctor and a carpenter in Maine.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A few minutes with a calculator and a tax form dimmed any hopes Carrie Villa of Helena, Mont., had for the Bush plan. "I'd like a tax cut," she said. "But from what I can see, it's not going to change anything for me." (Jon Ebelt for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (88%); WAGES & SALARIES (86%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); MEDICARE (76%); SOCIAL SECURITY (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); INCOME TAX (69%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (68%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (67%); GOVERNORS (67%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (64%); CORPORATE TAX (61%) TAXATION; SURVEYS AND SERIES; PUBLIC OPINION 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) EGAN, TIMOTHY; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); VILLA, CARRIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: HELENA, MT, USA (94%) MONTANA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) MONTANA

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2001 



194 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1447 words

HEADLINE: CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; 
A Festival of Images, via Rauschenberg and Others

BYLINE:  By BRUCE WEBER 

DATELINE: LOUISVILLE, Ky., April 1 

 BODY:
A young woman in a two-piece bathing suit spreads a clear plastic dropcloth across the stage floor. She exits, returns with a bottle of gin and empties it in the center of the dropcloth. She fetches a bottle of vermouth, which she waves over the puddle of gin. She exits again, this time for a jar of olives with whose contents she garnishes the now spreading martini. Then he dives forward and slides exuberantly on her belly through the whole mess. Shortly she is joined by her boyfriend, and the two of them frolic like dolphins in a cocktail sea.
 The scene, a hilarious pantomime, works as a stand-alone snapshot, both an appreciation and sendup of suburban hedonism. But it occurs in the middle of a spectacular pileup of performance pieces that collectively celebrate the life and vision of the artist Robert Rauschenberg. A vibrant collaboration among the playwright Charles L. Mee, the experimental director Anne Bogart and Ms. Bogart's troupe, the SITI Company, the show is called "bobrauschenbergamerica." 
 It was the high point of the 25th annual Humana Festival of New American Plays, which will conclude Sunday at the Actors Theater of Louisville. 
On the one hand, in its jumble of realistic and abstract imagery and its quirkily inquisitive spirit, the play is meant to emulate the style of Mr. Rauschenberg's well-known assemblages. On the other, it is also a kind of history lesson, tying the evolution of our culture in the 20th century to the education of the artist.
Mr. Mee has incorporated citations from Walt Whitman, John Cage and Mr. Rauschenberg himself, among others, into his vivid script. The artist never appears as a character, but his mother does; in a clever framing device, Mr. Mee makes her the narrator. 
Emerging intermittently through the screen door of the family's house in Port Arthur, Tex., she recalls her son's typical childhood -- he was born in 1925 -- of bikes, barbecues and boyish pranks, and admits, with an irony supplied by the playwright, "art was not a part of our lives." The house, painted as a huge American flag, is the backdrop of Ms. Bogart's staging. She uses some of Mr. Rauschenberg's favorite props (taxidermically preserved animals) and found objects (an automobile tire) and her own animating visual sense to prove that Mrs. Rauschenberg is only literally correct.
As usual, the festival consisted of six full-length plays and a stew of well-meaning gimmickry: five telephone plays, an hourlong sequence of minutes-long playlets by 16 writers; and an amusing serial play by Arthur Kopit, an apocalyptic cartoon delivered in three 10-minute segments. The festival was the first administered by Marc Masterson, who became artistic director of the Actors Theater last year, succeeding Jon Jory; they jointly put this year's program together, and perhaps not surprisingly, it was largely themeless, except for the notion that the theater is a perfect venue for the connection of abstract and concrete ideas.
Oddly, maybe distressingly, the two biggest clinkers in the festival can be laid at their feet. "Flaming Guns of the Purple Sage," a silly, farcical parody of romantic western movies and Sam Shepard's "True West," was written by the ordinarily admirable Jane Martin, the pseudonym for a playwright widely assumed to be Mr. Jory. And "Wonderful World" by Richard Dresser, an allegedly acerbic satire of family and marriage that has been better and more economically served by "Saturday Night Live," was so woodenly directed by Mr. Masterson that it yearned for a laugh track.
But in plays like "Description Beggared; or the Allegory of Whiteness" by Mac Wellman, not to mention "bobrauschenbergamerica," the melding of script and production was so evident, so necessary, that the festiva became a showcase for directors as much as it was for writers. 
"Whiteness" is a play that seems to be about the vagaries of memory, but in typical fashion for Mr. Wellmanit, is willfully baffling in its deconstructions of language and meaning. It is set during a reunion of the distinguished Ring family in a hypothetical city in a hypothetical state; it's called Newport, R.I., but the state is the size of America and possessed of vast mountainous regions. When a photographer attempts to capture a family portrait, something metaphysical goes wrong and the play slips through the looking glass, giving us a glimpse of a fractured and fuzzy family history.
The script is fraught with the irritating challenges that Mr. Wellman normally visits on the audience. But this is, improbably enough, a musical, and the engaging score by Michael Roth is tuneful, eclectic (it has a number of rock elements but begins with a medieval-sounding antiphony between a French horn and a trombone) and most pertinently, accessible where Mr. Wellman's narrative is not. And the director, Lisa Peterson, has created a beautiful and useful production.
Wearing elegant all-white costumes (by Linda Roethke) that reflect changing styles over the last 100 years, the actors clown, declaim, threaten, whine and jabber, wandering not only the small, in-the-round stage of the Victor Jory Theater but also launching their conflicting views from high in the audience. There's a lot of snow. It's all dizzying, but thematic; you understand you're being purposely misdirected and turned about so that your own perspective retreats into blankness; the production slowly whites out what you think you understand.
Two of the festival's more conventional narratives were also well supported by their directors. The less satisfying of the two, "Quake" by Melanie Marnich, is about a young woman pursuing her selfhood. She takes up impetuously with a number of ill-suited men, and in the play's most dubious contrivance becomes obsessively worshipful of a astrophysicist, a brilliant woman who happens to be on the lam because she has a habit of murdering men.
The situation gives the playwright a chance to soar off into ostensibly poetic fancies involving celestial metaphors and spiritual mystery. But despite an appealing central performance by Tracey Maloney, the script has the feel of a dusted-off idea with flashy new varnish; the language is not nearly as evocative as the playwright thinks. 
Where words fail the play, however, the director, Susan V. Booth, doesn't. Eventually her effort to keep things brisk flags -- the last 15 minutes seem very, very long -- but she ferries scenery and props on and off the stage inventively, paints stage pictures cleverly and has obviously encouraged Ms. Maloney to keep it snappy. The energy of the production is largely hers.
Finally, Michael John Garces, the young director of Eduardo Machado's "When the Sea Drowns in Sand," enhances a largely moving script. In it, a Cuban-born man in his 40's (played by Joseph Urla), accompanied by his best friend (Ed Vassallo), returns for the first time since childhood to his native island. There they hire Ernesto (Felix Solis) as a driver and guide. The play is accompanied by a seductive Latin drummer, Hugh Petersen.
To explain the complex relations among the three characters would be to undermine the play's surprises. (At least one producer has expressed interest in presenting it Off Broadway.) But they manage to embody a variety of conflicts that Mr. Machado perceives as parallel and potentially self-dividing: between capitalism and Communism; between hetero- and homosexuality; between the Cuban and Cuban-American character. The play does rise to an overly fervid political pitch (Elian Gonzalez is involved), and the various personal relationships end up being articulated to an unnecessary degree. But even with these caveats, it is a plaintively touching and intellectually solid piece of work.
As for the contribution of Mr. Garces, he has cast three actors with alternately magnetic and combustible chemistry and guided them to beautifully delineated performances. And though a particularly winning sequence is constructed around a tiny video camera -- Mr. Solis does a delightful turn performing for himself -- the play is largely propless. And Mr. Garces stages most of it as a jittery three-way courtship dance. 
The dynamic among the actors is generated less by any specific action than by their constant shifting of positions. It recalls Michael Blakemore's staging of "Copenhagen," which had the actors moving in mimicry of the restless structure of an atom. Here the actors are mostly poised o a circular platform on the four-sided stage, and their movement creates triangles with ever-changing vertices, a choreography that generates tension and also enforces the play's proposition that perspective is a matter of both predisposition and circumstance.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Leon Pauli and Akiko Aizawa in the play "bobrauschenbergamerica." (Richard C. Trigg/Humana Festival) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); THEATER (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); DRAMA LITERATURE (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); THEATER COMPANIES (89%); WRITERS (88%); MARINE MAMMALS (75%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (73%); FAMILY (73%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (67%); TIRES (61%) ART 

PERSON: WEBER, BRUCE; RAUSCHENBERG, ROBERT 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (92%) KENTUCKY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2001 



195 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 36 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES 

 BODY:
YEN RISES. The dollar fell against the yen after a report showed U.S. businesses unexpectedly eliminated jobs last month and the unemployment rate rose. In New York, the dollar settled at 123.97 yen, down from 124.04.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the yen to the dollar, since October 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JAPANESE YEN (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (87%) CURRENCY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (79%); CANADA (79%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (59%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2001 



196 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: Los Angeles Mayoral Race Tests Nonpartisan Tradition 

BYLINE:  By TODD S. PURDUM 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, April 6 

 BODY:
A mayoral campaign that motored along for months with civil discussions of civic issues from traffic to education is winding down into a final weekend of sharp ethnic politicking, personal recriminations and unusually heavy partisan spending in a city proud of its tradition of nonpartisan municipal elections.
 Three leading candidates in a field of six are vying in Tuesday's primary for two spots in a June runoff. They are City Attorney James K. Hahn, the son of a beloved local political dynasty who is white but whose biggest base of support rests among black voters; Antonio Villa raigosa, the former speaker of the State Assembly, who is hoping to become the city's first Hispanic mayor since 1872, and Steve Soboroff, a millionaire Republican businessman and political novice who has the backing of the retiring incumbent, Mayor Richard J. Riordan, and is hoping to inherit his coalition of disaffected white suburbanites and crossover Democrats. 
 Mr. Hahn, whose father was the longtime county supervisor Kenneth Hahn, has been the front-runner in virtually all polls, but his support has stayed steady at about a quarter of likely voters, according to the most recent Los Angeles Times survey, while Mr. Villaraigosa and Mr. Soboroff have surged from the low double-digits to within easy striking distance. Mr. Villaraigosa has the backing of the city's main union organization and the local Democratic Party, which are spending heavily on his behalf, while state Republicans are financing a direct-mail campaign in support of Mr. Soboroff.
Under a state campaign finance measure passed by the voters last fall, such contributions need not be disclosed until long after the election, and in recent days, the unknown spending and unusual partisan tenor of the race have become perhaps the most contentious issue. Unlike New York or Chicago, where partisan rough-and-tumble is routine, Los Angeles cherishes its Progressive-era system of nonpartisan races.
"A lot of people are kind of offended," said Rosalind Wyman, a former City Council member and the doyenne of the city's Democratic establishment, who is backing Mr. Hahn, who is also a Democrat. "People keep coming up to me and asking, 'Roz, is this a partisan race or not?' "
Like other veteran politicians, Ms. Wyman confesses uncertainty about the outcome on Tuesday, saying, "I really think it's a wide open race for that second slot."
Three other candidates, Representative Xavier Becerra, State Controller Kathleen Connell, both Democrats, and City Councilman Joel Wachs, an independent, all trail badly, and in the campaign's final televised debate on Wednesday night, Ms. Connell challenged Mr. Soboroff and Mr. Villaraigosa for accepting partisan help. 
Los Angeles voters are overwhelmingly Democratic, going 3 to 1 for Vice President Al Gore last fall. But local races are more fluid, and eight years ago in the wake of the 1992 riots, Mr. Riordan, a multimillionaire lawyer and investor, won by pledging that he was "tough enough to turn L.A. around." He won overwhelming re-election four years ago but is barred from seeking a third term.
Mr. Riordan's Los Angeles is more prosperous and confident than the shaken city of eight years ago, but he has also presided over the worst police corruption scandal in decades and has largely failed to build any working relationship with the City Council. His popularity has recently declined as the candidates, including his hand-picked successor, Mr. Soboroff, criticized his stewardship, and residents worry about a potential strike by Hollywood unions that could cripple the local economy.
One of the biggest uncertainties in this race is the city's Westside, heavily Jewish and traditionally liberal. In 1973, Tom Bradley became the city's first black mayor by building a coalition of black voters and liberal Westsiders, but the relative strength of the black electorate has shrunk since then, while Hispanic voters have grown to constitute perhaps 20 percent. Most experts expect the area to spread its votes widely among the candidates this time.
Mr. Soboroff, who would be the city's first Jewish mayor, says his status as a political outsider makes him a worthy heir to Mr. Riordan. Mr. Villaraigosa and his backers see him as the pioneer for the city's Hispanic population that Mr. Bradley was for blacks. Normally hard-charging, Mr. Villaraigosa seemed edgy in the debate on Wednesday, and often read answers from cards.
Mr. Hahn is counting on high black turnout in a contested election to succeed Representative Julian Dixon, who died last fall, to help increase his support.
"I think people who never really knew Tom Bradley or worked with him don't have the right to say they're the next Tom Bradley," Mr. Hahn said after a recent campaign stop. "There is no next Tom Bradley. He was one of a kind."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Two of the six mayoral candidates in Los Angeles, James K. Hahn, left, and Steve Soboroff, argued a point at a debate on Wednesday. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (94%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CITIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (72%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (69%); RIOTS (50%) PRIMARIES; MAYORS; HISPANIC-AMERICANS 

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: AL GORE (58%); XAVIER BECERRA (58%) PURDUM, TODD S; HAHN, JAMES K (CITY ATTY); VILLARAIGOSA, ANTONIO; SOBOROFF, STEVE 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) LOS ANGELES (CALIF)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2001 



197 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1245 words

HEADLINE: Estonia's President: Un-Soviet and Unconventional 

BYLINE:  By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr. 

DATELINE: TALLINN, Estonia 

 BODY:
In a world run by scions of political families, former Communist apparatchiks and other lifelong politicians, it is refreshing to meet a president whose official resume says: "At the age of 12, Lennart Meri started his career as a lumberman. He has also worked as a professional potato peeler and a rafter." 
 And not just any log-splitter-and-spud-parer-turned-president, but one who, along the way, won a silver medal at a New York Film Festival and translated the works of Graham Greene and Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn into Estonian. 
 Mr. Meri, who is turning 72, will retire in August, having served as tiny Estonia's only president since it won independence from the Soviet Union in 1991. He leaves behind a country in such good shape that it is sometimes ranked ahead of Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic, and with equally tiny Slovenia, as an early candidate for entry into the European Union. 
Thanks largely to ties to Scandinavia -- and especially to Finland, whose language is related to Estonian -- Estonia has had more foreign investment per capita than any other former Eastern Bloc country. Its average wage is now $300 a month, triple that of impoverished Romania, and slightly ahead of that of Lithuania and Latvia, the other two Baltic states that had their independence jerked away after Stalin's nonagression pact with Hitler in 1939 and not restored until the collapse of the Soviet Union a decade ago. 
Estonia is about the size of the Netherlands but with a tenth of the population, and its per-capita use of mobile phones, Internet banking and other technology is higher than France's or Italy's. 
During his decade in power, Mr. Meri has pushed relentlessly for open markets and clean government. He was not necessarily supposed to be as influential as he has been, because the 1992 Constitution defines presidential powers vaguely. But the same kind of do-it-yourself attitude that had him wandering the presidential palace with a Swiss Army Knife fixing broken light switches let him step into many political gaps.
"I've had people in Parliament say to me, 'We're trying to keep him in his box, but he just keeps jumping out,' " a foreign diplomat said.
It was Mr. Meri who negotiated the departure in 1994 of lingering Russian troops, meeting with Boris N. Yeltsin over a long, vodka-enhanced lunch during which, Mr. Meri says, he blocked the door to force Mr. Yeltsin to finish haggling over the closing date for a submarine base.
When the interior minister, Edgar Savisaar, was caught bugging cabinet members' conversations in 1995, it was Mr. Meri who denounced the practice so forcefully -- arguing that "Watergate saved the United States" -- that the government fell and was replaced. Now it is filled largely with relative youngsters. Many were Mr. Meri's proteges when he was foreign minister in the transition government as Estonia broke away from the Soviet Union. 
"He is so un-Soviet -- sort of a prewar man -- that there's a generation gap with people in his own age group," said Michael Tarm, the publisher of City Paper, an English-language magazine about the Baltic States published here. Mr. Meri's Foreign Ministry "was like a college dormitory," Mr. Tarm said. 
As Mr. Meri tells it, he showed up at 9 a.m. the day he was appointed, dismissed all the Soviet-era employees and threw out the only books in the office he inherited: 34 volumes of Lenin.
"I had to invite youngsters I could trust, so for a long time, the Foreign Ministry was reminiscent of a Boy Scout camp," he said.
The current defense minister is 33, a former foreign minister got his job at 26. Even the prime minister, Mart Laar, though not exactly a Meri protege, got his job at 32. 
Mr. Meri himself was born in 1929, the son of an Estonian diplomat. He grew up in Paris and Berlin, becoming fluent in French and German. He learned English, he said, because his parents spoke it in front of him thinking he couldn't understand. "I kept my secret," he said.
But he learned Russian the hard way. When Stalin annexed Estonia in 1940, the Meri family was deported to Siberia. With his father in the gulag, he and his mother cut trees to survive, and he floated logs down river. In winter they peeled potatoes in a Red Army factory, where he could steal up to 20 pounds a day, he said, "because Russians have a liberal view of kids and never searched me." 
They survived. His father eventually became Estonia's translator of Shakespeare -- a 25-year task, though the closest he ever got to Albion was the view of its white cliffs from Dieppe. 
Mr. Meri went to Tartu University in Estonia, became a historian and produced radio plays. He said he found his true calling after a trip to the Kara-Kum Desert, in Central Asia, in 1958. He wrote and sold a book, which financed his next trip, to the Yakutia region of Siberia, where at one point, he said, he was forced to eat his horse. 
In all, he spent 25 years traveling the Soviet Union's most remote areas. Some of his documentaries about the nomadic Finno-Ugric horsemen whose steppes and forests had been colonized by Slavic Russians made apparent the cold indifference of rule from Moscow, and were banned.
But a print of "The Winds of the Milky Way" won the New York prize, and his 1976 history of Estonia, "Silverwhite," gave Mr. Meri the leverage to wrest visas from the authorities to travel overseas. 
His promotion of Estonian nationalism abroad put him in a position to be appointed foreign minister in 1990 and to run for president after Estonia won full independence in 1991.
But his nationalistic politics were more scholarly than radical; he wanders so deeply into topics that an hour's chat with him is like a week watching the Discovery Channel. When he retires, he has a notion to drain the vast meteorite crater on Saare, an Estonian island in the Baltic Sea. He believes the meteorite's blast in 300 B.C. may be the source of Ragnarok, the Norse legend of the Death of the Gods, Gotterdammerung, as in Wagner's opera. For generations, sacrificed humans were dropped into its depths.
Human sacrifice is one way of looking at Mr. Meri's presidential role. He is in part the national scold, especially in his Feb. 24 National Day speeches. He has called corrupt politicians "scum on the surface of the state cauldron." This year he tweaked Mr. Laar for shooting at a picture of Mr. Savisaar on a visit to a military base. 
Last year, he attacked draft evaders, timber exploiters, boastful Estonian tycoons and anyone not exhibiting the Protestant work ethic in this mostly Lutheran country. Asked about that after he mentioned his education by French Jesuits, he quickly explained that even Tacitus acknowledged that Estonians worked their frigid fields harder than the Germanic tribes, whose coast was toasty warm by comparison, "so Protestantism here predates the birth of Christ." 
He denies popular rumors that he ever told off the elder President Bush for lacking a Baltic policy or that the floor between him and Mr. Yeltsin became littered with broken vodka glasses. "But you cannot strangle a legend," he observed. "You must, like a cowboy, saddle it and ride it." 
Others say his eccentricities help put Estonia, a country of 1.4 million people that has ruled itself for only 30 of the last 800 years, on the map. 
Asked if being a septuagenarian helped him get away with it, he grinned, and answered, "I think in the bottom of their hearts, they always have a feeling of, 'Damn! But the Old One was right.' "

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lennart Meri, Estonia's only president since the tiny Baltic country became independent from the Soviet Union in 1991, will retire in August. (Peeter Langovits/PM-EMF) Map of Estonia highlights Tallinn: In Tallinn, President Lennart Meri is known as the national scold.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (71%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (66%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (63%); TRENDS (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); ARMED FORCES (61%); WAGES & SALARIES (51%); INTERNET BANKING (50%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (83%) EUROPEAN UNION 

PERSON: MCNEIL, DONALD G JR; MERI, LENNART (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ESTONIA (99%); EUROPE (92%); BALTIC STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); ITALY (79%); FRANCE (79%); SLOVENIA (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); HUNGARY (79%); LITHUANIA (79%); FINLAND (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); LATVIA (79%); POLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ROMANIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) ESTONIA

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2001 



198 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1041 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS; 
Stocks Finish Jarring Week In New Skid

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL BRICK 

 BODY:
New reminders that the economy is weakening and that corporations are struggling led to losses in the stock market yesterday, punctuating a week of sharp declines and suggesting that the week's one brief but sparkling rally was something of a mirage.
 Economists said new data showing a rise in unemployment raised doubt that consumer spending would carry the economy through the slowdown. 
 The Bureau of Labor Statistics reported that the unemployment rate rose to 4.3 percent in March from 4.2 percent, as businesses cut 86,000 jobs. The drop in jobs, led by the manufacturing sector, surprised economists, though many had expected the slight rise in the relatively low unemployment rate. 
Several market analysts said that the report was a catalyst for the market sell-off yesterday.
"For a while, weaker economic data was perceived to be a plus for the stock market because it would bring the Fed in faster," said Nick Sargen, global market strategist for J. P. Morgan Private Bank, referring to the fact that some analysts expect the Federal Reserve to cut interest rates again before their May meeting. But the report showed, he said, "the economy is weaker than policy makers realize and than the markets had realized.
"There will always be hopes for an interim move," he said, "but I think they're not realistic, and I think people realize that."
In addition, a renewed wave of profit warnings reminded investors that a revival of corporate profits remained distant, and a bankruptcy filing by Pacific Gas and Electric, California's biggest utility, raised new concerns about the economy of the nation's biggest state.
For the day and the week, all of the major indexes fell, with the sharpest losses concentrated in technology stocks. The Nasdaq composite index dropped 64.64 points, or 3.6 percent, to close at 1,720.36 yesterday. The broad Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 23.01 points, or 2 percent, to 1,128.43, and the Dow Jones industrial average dropped 126.96 points, or 1.3 percent, to 9,791.09.
Yesterday's declines came in sharp contrast to the stock market's big gains on Thursday, when the Nasdaq surged 8.9 percent and the Dow Jones industrials jumped 4.2 percent. But they were consistent with the steep losses posted on the first two days of this week. Investors searching for low-priced stocks during a respite from bad news started Thursday's rally, and the rising prices panicked short-sellers, who had bet stocks would fall, analysts said.
"Bull market behavior is characterized by sharp and scary pullbacks," said Bernie Schaeffer, chairman of Schaeffer's Investment Research. In a bear market, "it's almost a panic to the upside that tends to occur."
But after the rally vanished and the losses resumed, all the major indexes ended lower for the week. The Nasdaq composite index fell 6.5 percent for the week and is down 30.4 percent so far this year. The Dow was down 0.9 percent for the week and has declined 9.2 percent for the year. And the S.& P. 500 finished the week with a loss of 2.7 percent and is showing a drop of 14.5 percent so far this year.
"Markets focus on the headline change in jobs, which is obviously unfavorable for the economy," said Cary Leahey, senior economist at Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown. Still, a rise in hourly earnings and in hiring in certain sectors, combined with the slight change in unemployment, may have saved investors from steeper losses. "The only time you can really trade sharply up or down is when every number in there is great or terrible," Mr. Leahey said.
Jon Brorson, director of equities for Northern Trust, a money management concern, said the employment figures offered little to cheer investors, but "nor were they bad enough to trigger the market to do something."
"It was kind of a middling number," he said.
Corporations continued to warn about weakening earnings yesterday. RadioShack and Tellabs both said first-quarter profits would be lower than expected. Late Thursday, Agilent said it would reduce employees' pay because sales were weakening and revenue would be lower than expected. Sycamore Networks and Extreme Networks each warned of a surprise loss late Thursday. All fell yesterday.
RadioShack plunged $10.20, to $28.30; Tellabs lost $7, to $33.75; Agilent dropped $2.82, to $27.80; Sycamore fell $1.81, to $7.25; and Extreme Networks slipped 5 cents, to $15.96.
Hewlett-Packard, Agilent's former corporate parent, weighed heavily on the Dow, falling $2.02, to $28.75. Intel, another of the Dow's technology components, dropped $2, to $23.63, while Microsoft lost 56 cents, to $56.19.
Motorola shares fell $3.45, or 23 percent, to $11.50, after a bond newsletter said the company could face a liquidity problem if its credit rating, which is currently under review, is cut. Motorola denied that it was facing any such difficulty. 
Utility stocks fell sharply after Pacific Gas and Electric filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. The company said California's regulators and legislators had failed to resolve the utility's financial crisis, which resulted from soaring wholesale power prices.
Shares of the utility's parent company, the PG&E Corporation, declined $4.18, or 37 percent, to $7.20, while shares of Edison International, the parent of California's second-biggest utility, Southern California Edison, dropped $4.39, or 35 percent, to $8.25. The utility sell-off weighed on the Dow Jones utility average, which dropped 13.37 points, or 3.5 percent, to 364.55.
New evidence appeared to show that investors have been shying away from the equities market. Stock funds reported net cash redemptions of $9.7 billion in March, according to AMG Data Services, which tracks fund movements.
In the bond market, Treasury prices surged as investors speculated that the weak March employment figures would put pressure on the Federal Reserve to cut interest rates more aggressively and quickly than previously expected to revive the economy.
The 10-year Treasury note rose 21/32, to a price of 100 28/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 4.89 percent from 4.97 percent on Thursday.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond rose 1, to 98 25/32. The bond's yield fell to 5.46 percent from 5.53 percent on Thursday.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Traders on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange yesterday executed trades in Motorola shares, which plunged 23 percent. The company refuted reports of liquidity troubles. (Bloomberg News)(pg. C3) Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C3) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); BONDS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); PROFIT WARNINGS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); STATISTICS (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); INTEREST RATES (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%) STOCKS AND BONDS; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; INTEREST RATES; CREDIT 

COMPANY: PG&E CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (57%)

TICKER: PCG (SWX) (54%); PCG (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (54%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (54%)

PERSON: BRICK, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2001 



199 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1128 words

HEADLINE: U.S. REPORT SHOWS JOB LOSS IN MARCH WAS MOST SINCE '91 

BYLINE:  By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
The nation's employers shed 86,000 jobs in March, the largest loss for a single month in more than nine years and an indication to many economists that the United States may be on the verge of a recession.
 The unemployment rate took another tick upward, to 4.3 percent from 4.2 percent in February and 3.9 percent in October, as the Labor Department's job figures, announced yesterday, finally reflected the parade of layoffs and hiring freezes since last fall. Job losses in March, as they have been for months, were concentrated in manufacturing. But this time, job gains elsewhere were no longer sufficient to offset the cutbacks. 
 "This report tells me that the weakness that started in manufacturing is spreading to the rest of the economy," said William Dudley, director of domestic economics at Goldman, Sachs. "Yesterday, that was a forecast, something we surmised, and today it is in the data."
The March loss was the largest since November 1991, when a still weak economy was emerging from the last recession and employers eliminated 129,000 jobs. A Labor Department survey of 356 industries last month showed that an increasingly broad array is cutting jobs. Not since the last recession have the cutbacks been so widespread. 
Stock prices, in reaction, fell sharply yesterday, with the Dow Jones industrial average declining 1.3 percent, to 9,791,09, and the Nasdaq falling 3.6 percent, to 1,720.36. The market's behavior went against the grain. Stocks usually rise in response to a bad employment report, the belief on Wall Street being that the negative news makes the Federal Reserve more willing to cut interest rates. Lower rates, in turn, make the potential return from stocks more attractive to investors. 
The March report indeed raised expectations on Wall Street of lower rates. But this time the smell of recession seemed to weigh more heavily on the markets. Many Wall Street economists called on the Fed to keep cutting interest rates, until they are down to 3 percent or so, from the present 5 percent level. But there was probably just enough strength -- or ambiguity -- in the March jobs report for the Fed's policy makers to resist demands for an emergency rate cut ahead of their next scheduled meeting on May 15. 
"You see some signs of stability," said James Glassman, senior domestic economist for J. P. Morgan Chase & Company. "Hours worked rose a bit, and so did average hourly pay, which suggests that consumer income and consumer spending are holding up. This report by itself fails to justify a quick rate cut."
The Labor Department, reinforcing this view, revised the job numbers for January and February -- adding 77,000 jobs for those months.
The Bush administration, citing the jobs report, urged Congress to approve its tax cut proposals. "The new unemployment numbers show that the patient isn't getting any better, so it is time to prescribe some medicine," said Elaine Chao, the secretary of labor. 
But others, including several Fed officials, have argued recently that the economy still may have enough strength to avoid a recession, particularly if consumer spending remains strong. That view is shared by Chris Varvares, president of Macroeconomic Advisers in St. Louis. "What you count on to stay out of a recession is the consumer holding up," he said. "That may require a stock market rebound, which would be helped by rate cuts." 
The biggest job losses were in manufacturing, which shed 81,000 workers last month and 451,000 since last June. The other sector hard hit was temporary help, which lost 83,000 jobs and 300,000 since last spring, when the economy first showed signs of slowing. These are the "temps" that employers have increasingly used. When the cutbacks began, there were 3.5 million in the work force, many of them assigned to factory work. 
"Temps are the first to go in a slowing economy," said Thomas Nardone, chief of the Bureau of Labor Statistics, which compiles the employment reports.
Until last month, the suffering in manufacturing and temporary help had been more than offset by employment increases in retailing, wholesale trade, transportation, public utilities, engineering services, consulting and government. In March, however, retailers and wholesalers eliminated jobs. So did government. And the others added fewer jobs than usual.
One of the few remaining sources of strength was construction, which swings widely. But having added 157,000 jobs in January and 7,000 in February, that sector produced a modest gain of 12,000 in March.
It is still possible that March might be an exception and April will produce a rosier employment report. But few economists embrace this view. Even Mr. Varvares is cautious. "We would have felt better about our no-recession forecast if we had seen a rise in employment along with a rise in hours worked," he said.
March was only the second month since January 1996 that produced a net job loss. In that month, a normal expansion was just beginning to turn into an exuberant boom and the 61,000 jobs that disappeared were largely attributed to the effects of a blizzard on the East Coast.
Financial services stood out in March as reasonably strong, adding 17,000 jobs, many of them in mortgage lending, where falling interest rates have encouraged people to refinance mortgages or borrow to purchase new homes. 
Beyond the overall job loss, there were other indications in the March report that a slowing economy was approaching a recession. Job growth has steadily declined, from an average of 244,000 a month in last year's first quarter to 70,000 in the fourth quarter and 64,000 in the just-ended first quarter. Among the unemployed, the share of those laid off versus those who resign has risen gradually, to 48.8 percent, and the share of those unemployed for more than five weeks has also risen.
Blacks are suffering the most from rising unemployment. Their unemployment rate was 8.6 percent in March and averaged 8.1 percent in the first quarter, up from 7.5 percent in the fourth quarter. 
Even the good news -- an increase in the workweek to 34.3 hours from 34.2 in February and a 6 cent rise to $14.17 in average hourly pay for production workers -- was viewed by some as backward-looking.
"This is inertia, a delayed response to the very tight labor markets that are now easing up," said Joshua N. Feinman, chief economist at Deutsche Asset Management.
Viewed from another angle, the rising hours were foreboding. If people worked more hours just as the economy's output declined, then productivity in the first quarter probably suffered, Mr. Feinman said. Less efficiency means higher costs, which must be offset by either higher prices or lower profits -- probably the latter, in Mr. Feinman's view. 
"That is not good for the stock market," he said.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Consumer Borrowing"Chart shows net change in total consumer installment credit outstanding; in billions of dollars seasonally adjusted since September 1999. Annual Rates of ChangeFeb: +10.5%Jan. +12.5%Dec. +5.7% *Figures for Oct. and Nov. 2000 include adjustments for previously unseparated debt.(Source: Federal Reserve Board)(pg. C14) Chart: "The Labor Picture in March"UNEMPLOYMENTCivilian unemployment: 4.3 percent DEMOGRAPHICSWhite: 3.7Black: 8.6Hispanic*: 6.3Men 20 and over: 3.8Women 20 and over: 3.6Teenagers (16-19): 13.8 OUT OF WORK (millions)Total: 6.1Lost job: 3.0Left job: 0.8Returning to labor market: 1.9New to labor market: 0.4 EMPLOYMENTHousehold survey: 135.8 millionNonfarm payroll survey: 132.2 million TYPE OF WORK (millions)NonfarmFeb.: 132.3March: 132.2 GoodsFeb.: 25.6March: 25.5 ServicesFeb.: 106.8March: 106.7 AgricultureFeb.: 3.2March: 3.2 SHARE OF POPULATION (percent)Work forceFeb.: 64.4March: 64.3 Labor force (workers and unemployed)Feb.: 67.2March: 67.2 All figures are seasonally adjusted. *Hispanics can be of any race.(Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. C14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RECESSION (91%); LAYOFFS (91%); DISMISSALS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); STOCK INDEXES (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (68%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (65%); TAX LAW (60%); TAX RELIEF (50%) LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; CREDIT; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; HIRING AND PROMOTION 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (62%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%) LABOR DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (62%); JPM (LSE) (62%); 8634 (TSE) (62%); GS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (62%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (62%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (62%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (62%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2001 



200 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1105 words

HEADLINE: DaimlerChrysler Vows to Match Rivals in S.U.V. Gas Mileage 

BYLINE:  By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: DETROIT, April 6 

 BODY:
After deriding for months the pledges of Ford Motor and General Motors to improve the fuel economy of sport utility vehicles and other light trucks by close to 25 percent, DaimlerChrysler A.G. has reversed itself and now says its light trucks will meet or exceed its rivals' models in average gas mileage.
 DaimlerChrysler last year sold 1.9 million light trucks, a category that encompasses pickup trucks like the Dodge Ram and minivans like the Dodge Caravan, as well as sport utility vehicles like Jeeps and the Dodge Durango. G.M. sold 2.4 million light trucks and Ford sold 2.5 million. So the three manufacturers have now pledged to increase the gas mileage of nearly seven million vehicles a year, or two-fifths of the American market. 
 Those improvements would be the first significant change in the fuel economy of any class of passenger vehicle in almost two decades. 
"We are committed to improving the fuel efficiency of all our vehicles," Jurgen Schrempp, chairman of DaimlerChrysler, said in a statement this afternoon. "Our fleet will match or exceed those of other full-line manufacturers."
He set no timetable for carrying out the standards. 
Federal regulations require that each automaker sell cars that get an average of at least 27.5 miles per gallon. But the minimum average required for light trucks is 20.7 miles per gallon, and DaimlerChrysler, Ford and G.M. barely meet that standard. As sport utilities have soared in popularity, the average fuel economy of new vehicles has fallen steadily.
This has alarmed environmentalists, because the burning of gasoline by automobiles is the second-largest source of manmade emissions of carbon dioxide, a gas linked to global warming. Last month, President Bush reversed a campaign pledge to regulate carbon dioxide emissions of power plants, which are the biggest source of such emissions in the nation. 
The decline in fuel economy has also worried people concerned about rising gasoline prices and about the world's dependence on oil from politically volatile areas. 
Mr. Schrempp made a point, however, of saying in his statement that DaimlerChrysler would match or exceed what other automakers actually did, not what they promised. "Our yardstick is not what is announced, but is delivered," he said.
Because G.M. also pledged to beat only Ford, this means that everything depends on Ford's ability to carry out the commitments it made last summer. Jason Vines, a Ford spokesman, said Ford would meet its commitment. He noted that Ford had pledged in January 1998 to reduce sharply the air pollution from its sport utility vehicles by the end of that year, and had done so.
In a speech in Washington last July 27, Jacques Nasser, Ford's chief executive, promised to improve the average fuel economy of Ford sport utilities by 25 percent over the next five years. That would amount to nearly five miles a gallon. 
Ford executives also said then that they planned to commit themselves this year to a similarly large increase in the fuel efficiency of minivans and pickup trucks, but have not yet done so. Mr. Vines said Ford was still calculating the precise improvement that was technologically feasible.
Harry Pearce, G.M.'s vice chairman, responded to Mr. Nasser in a speech on Aug. 2, vowing that no matter how much Ford improved the average fuel economy of its sport utilities over the next five years, G.M. would make sure it had an even higher average fuel efficiency. Mr. Pearce then one-upped Mr. Nasser, saying the average fuel efficiency of all G.M. light trucks would be higher than Ford's average as well.
Max Gates, a DaimlerChrysler spokesman, said Mr. Schrempp's statement referred to matching or exceeding Ford and G.M. in overall gas mileage for cars and for light trucks. DaimlerChrysler is not committing itself to fuel-economy goals in specific market segments like sport utilities, he added. 
Mr. Schrempp's statement came after limited consultation with the Chrysler unit of DaimlerChrysler, where executives were surprised and dismayed when told of it. "It's going to be news to a lot of people who are toiling in the fields on our fuel economy and on our future products," said an executive who insisted on anonymity. "I really don't think that's something the company has to do to sell cars."
Much more than Ford and G.M., Chrysler has a long history of resisting pressure to improve fuel economy, tailpipe emissions and safety. Chrysler executives were bitter last summer about Ford's announcement, privately accusing Ford of having undermined the industry's opposition to tighter federal fuel-economy standards for sport utilities and other light trucks.
DaimlerChrysler had said after the G.M. announcement on Aug. 2 that it was not willing to make a similar commitment. "We'll let them do the tit for tat," Michael Aberlich, a DaimlerChrysler spokesman, said then.
Mr. Gates said that today's statement had been prepared because of a visit Mr. Schrempp had made to The New York Times on Tuesday. "Schrempp's statement was made in response to questions asked by editors of The New York Times," he said.
Christoph Walther Sr., DaimlerChrysler's vice president for communications and its top spokesman, said automakers in Europe had made voluntary commitments to much higher gas mileage there out of a sense of social responsibility, so the company saw a need to make commitments in the United States as well.
The American executives of Chrysler have been the staunchest opponents of tighter regulations on light trucks because 74 percent of Chrysler's sales are light trucks now. Chrysler's light trucks currently get slightly better gas mileage on average than Ford's or G.M.'s, because Chrysler does not sell any sport utilities as big as the Ford Excursion or GMC Suburban.
Federal fuel-economy standards have been frozen for the last six years by Republicans in Congress. Upset by high gasoline prices, Democratic and Republican senators from Western states allied themselves with environmentalists last summer in an attempt to let the Clinton administration raise the standards. In a compromise last summer, Congress ordered the creation of a committee of the National Academy of Sciences to assess American fuel-economy policy and deliver a report by this July 1.
Foreign automakers have refused to commit themselves to any voluntary improvements in fuel economy. The average gas mileage of cars and light trucks sold by Japanese automakers is currently higher than the average gas mileage of American automakers' vehicles. But the average gas mileage of the Japanese automakers, especially Toyota, is now falling as they sell more large models. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (97%); MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MFG (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); PICKUP TRUCKS (77%); MINIVANS (77%); GASOLINE MARKETS (74%); GLOBAL WARMING (74%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (73%); POWER PLANTS (72%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (72%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (71%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); GASOLINE PRICES (64%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (64%); AIR POLLUTION (63%); EXECUTIVES (63%) AUTOMOBILES; FUEL EFFICIENCY; UTILITY VEHICLES AND OTHER LIGHT TRUCKS 

COMPANY: DAIMLER AG (94%); FORD MOTOR CO (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: DAIMLERCHRYSLER AG; GENERAL MOTORS CORP; FORD MOTOR CO 

TICKER: DAI (FRA) (94%); DAI (BIT) (94%); FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%) SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & CAR BODIES; 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%) BRADSHER, KEITH 

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2001 

 
