

201 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 930 words

HEADLINE: With 3-Minute Ad, Paladino Tries to Reset His Campaign for Governor

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE and JAVIER C. HERNANDEZ; Michael Barbaro and David W. Chen contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Seeking a reset of his faltering campaign for governor, Carl P. Paladino bought a three-minute advertisement on local television stations in Buffalo on Thursday to try to persuade New Yorkers that he is a serious candidate for governor, despite recent flare-ups and angry outbursts.
Looking composed, Mr. Paladino offered no apologies, not even for an altercation with a New York Post reporter that catapulted him to national prominence while sowing fears among fellow Republicans about his temperament. 
Instead, Mr. Paladino, a Buffalo businessman, tried to refocus the conversation on the severity of the state's problems and his belief that traditional politicians cannot be trusted to solve them.
''Our state is in a death spiral,'' Mr. Paladino said in the advertisement, filmed near his office in Buffalo. ''We pay the highest taxes in the country. Spending and debt are widely out of control, and many in our Legislature are crooks. Our state is hemorrhaging jobs; our young people move as soon as they graduate. Upstate and downstate are dying.''
The advertisement followed a tumultuous week for Mr. Paladino, who faced criticism for injecting personal attacks into the race, including an off-the-cuff suggestion that his Democratic opponent, Andrew M. Cuomo, had engaged in extramarital affairs. He was also criticized for suggesting on Tuesday that the powerful State Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, was a criminal.
Even Roger J. Stone Jr., an informal adviser to Mr. Paladino and a longtime Republican consultant, publicly criticized Mr. Paladino's strategy this week and urged a new direction -- remarks that dismayed Mr. Paladino, an aide said.
On Tuesday night, after hearing from friends and conservative leaders that he needed to take drastic measures to save his candidacy, Mr. Paladino set aside money to buy TV time. And shortly after midnight, Mr. Paladino's campaign manager, Michael R. Caputo, wrote on his Twitter page that Mr. Paladino had canceled all media appearances for the day.
Aides said Mr. Paladino spent most of Wednesday in seclusion in his Buffalo home taking counsel from Republican officials and pondering what he would say.
''Tonight, Carl addressed the substantive topics and solutions New Yorkers crave,'' said Edward F. Cox, the chairman of the state Republican Party. ''They are the same issues he has been highlighting for months. They are the same issues Andrew Cuomo refuses to address.''
Mr. Paladino finalized his script hours before the advertisement was shown at 5:13 p.m., according to one Republican official. Advertisements on upstate radio stations billed Mr. Paladino's appearance as ''Carl Talks Directly to New Yorkers,'' and aides said they were seeking a statewide audience.
Looking less fatigued than he has in recent days, Mr. Paladino opened by explaining why he was angered last week at the reporter who questioned him aggressively about Mr. Paladino's suggestions that the press dig into Mr. Cuomo's marriage to his former wife, Kerry Kennedy.
Mr. Paladino said that he had been barraged with questions about his own marriage, about his affair with a former employee, and about his daughter, and that he was merely arguing that Mr. Cuomo ought to face the same questions. He said that unlike many politicians, he had acknowledged his daughter and admitted the affair, but that his honesty did not satisfy the press and only incited them to demand more detail, like when the girl, now 10, had been conceived.
''What I meant to express in my anger is simply this: Does the media ask Andrew such questions?'' Mr. Paladino said. ''Andrew's prowess is legendary.''
But in keeping with advice that he reorient his campaign along substantive issues, Mr. Paladino used most of the three minutes to describe his plans for fixing Albany and creating jobs, including cutting taxes by 10 percent, appointing a special prosecutor to investigate political corruption and pursuing new oil and gas drilling in upstate New York.
''We can turn Albany upside down,'' Mr. Paladino said. ''We can take out the trash and bring economic growth, jobs and prosperity back to New York.''
Aides said the campaign was finalizing position papers and planned to release a new one every few days in the weeks ahead.
Still, the day's events carried a whiff of the campaign theater that Mr. Stone and Mr. Caputo favor. Mr. Caputo said Thursday that the candidate had set aside more than $100,000 for the commercials, a relatively modest sum given the costs of advertising in New York's high-priced media markets.
And it was unclear on Thursday just how many New Yorkers would actually see the advertisement, which was broadcast on just three stations, all network affiliates in Buffalo.
Mr. Caputo said Thursday evening that stations in other cities around the state had told the campaign that they could not accommodate such a last-minute change of their scheduling.
In a statement, Josh Vlasto, a campaign spokesman for Mr. Cuomo, said Mr. Paladino ''can't con New Yorkers.''
''They have seen the real Carl, and they know he is unfit to be governor with his unstable outbursts, smears and total lack of substance,'' Mr. Vlasto added. ''New Yorkers don't need his dysfunctional personality in Albany -- Albany is dysfunctional enough.''
In his commercial, Mr. Paladino accused Mr. Cuomo of ducking Mr. Paladino's calls for a debate. That challenge was pre-empted, however, by an announcement from Mr. Cuomo's campaign, sent just before Mr. Paladino's commercial was shown, that the Democrat had accepted an invitation to debate Mr. Paladino and five other candidates.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Carl P. Paladino's latest advertisement on a television at a store in Williamsville, N.Y. ''Upstate and downstate are dying,'' he said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (73%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BUFFALO, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2010



202 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 911 words

HEADLINE: In Anti-Obama Crowd, a Soft Spot For Bill Clinton

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Many Republicans with a deep animus for President Obama find their hearts aflutter with the memory of a former leader. He was a compassionate conservative, a guy who cared about free trade, a man who reached across the aisle.
He is the husband of the secretary of state. 
Senator Orrin G. Hatch recently said that former President Bill Clinton ''will go down in history as a better president'' than the sitting one. Sean Hannity of Fox News, who has verbally abused Mr. Clinton for years, recently referred to him as ''good old Bill.'' Republicans in Congress have begun speaking of him with respect, even pining.
''I enjoy Bill Clinton,'' Representative Paul D. Ryan, a six-term Republican from Wisconsin, said in an interview, echoing several colleagues. ''The first two years of his term were one thing, but the rest of his presidency was tempered with moderation, and the nation benefited.''
Um, there was that whole impeachment thing.
''Yeah, I don't think about that too much,'' Mr. Ryan said, adding, ''If it were not for Monica Lewinsky, I think we would have Social Security straightened out now.''
In many ways, Republican nostalgia for Mr. Clinton is a brew of selective memory, convenient disregard for the bitter partisan battles that marked his tenure and longing for a time when major bipartisan legislation, like the North American Free Trade Agreement, was possible.
The wistfulness, however revisionist, for Mr. Clinton's presidency raises interesting questions about how Mr. Obama would manage his legislative and political agenda should the Republicans take back the House next month.
Would he take a page from Mr. Clinton's triangulation of his base to accomplish major legislation like welfare reform, trade agreements and tax policy? Or are the circumstances of each man's original victory, true political proclivities and respective relationship to his supporters too disparate to find parallel outcomes?
''Barack Obama was nominated after a difficult primary process and won by rallying the left end of the base,'' said Vin Weber, a former Republican congressman from Minnesota. ''Clinton was quite consistent to who he was going to be. If Obama moves to the center it may be practical, but his base won't like it. The $64,000 question is what is in his heart.''
In some ways, Republicans are glomming on to Mr. Clinton, whose spokeswoman said he was traveling to Haiti and could not comment, at a high point in his post-presidency. Despite concerns that Hillary Rodham Clinton's cabinet appointment would hinder his charitable foundation, it has continued to grow. At the United Nations last month, Mr. Clinton's conference was the hottest ticket in town.
What is more, his recent description of Sarah Palin as ''somebody to be reckoned with'' earned him some kind words from Mr. Hannity and Bill O'Reilly, the right-of-center television host. (No small matter: Mr. Clinton beat relentlessly -- some critics argued he went out of bounds -- on Mr. Obama during the 2008 primary campaign.)
Even if what Republicans really hope for is to see Mr. Obama fail, they also speak with longing for a president who was able to toss aside his party's orthodoxies, though they are often unwilling to do the same.
The circumstances are quite different now from the Clinton years, however. President Clinton was an early and strong believer in welfare reform and free trade, for instance, and did not need Republicans to prod him on those matters. In contrast, Mr. Obama framed his agenda largely through the concept of ''a new foundation,'' as he frequently said, which Republicans see as code for government expansion.
''President Clinton campaigned promising to be a different kind of Democrat,'' said William A. Galston, a former Clinton policy adviser. ''I think it is fair to say that candidate Obama campaigned and won as the champion of the Democratic Party as a whole, and not a reformer within the Democratic Party.''
And large budget surpluses in some Clinton years meant that every constituency could find something under its pillow: tax cuts for Republicans, entitlement expansions for Democrats and a balanced budget for America.
''Two things are much worse now,'' Mr. Galston said. ''The state of the economy and the employment market and condition of the budget.''
Politics and policy aside, there may also be a larger cultural division between the current president and his opposition, sometimes cast in code language.
''You know with Clinton the chemistry was right,'' said Trent Lott, the former Senate majority leader. ''He was a good old boy from Arkansas, I was a good old boy from Mississippi, and Newt, he was from Georgia. So he knew what I was about, and I knew where he was coming from.''
Should Republicans retake the House, the two parties might find common ground. Policy experts and administration officials -- who do not wish to publicly acknowledge the possibility of a Republican takeover -- agree there could be deals on education, tax policy and even energy, absent a discussion of climate change.
''The big issue is the debt and how to deal with it,'' said John C. Danforth, a former Republican Senator from Missouri.
Representative Jack Kingston, Republican of Georgia, said, ''We can give the president the excuse to do some of the things he wanted to do or realize have to be done.''
Whether that would be palatable, or even possible, for Mr. Obama, is another question.
''Well,'' Mr. Lott said, ''we're fixing to find out.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Former President Bill Clinton reacting to President Obama's remarks last month at a Clinton Global Initiative event in New York. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
TRENT LOTT former Senate majority leader (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX BRANDON/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 PAUL D. RYAN Republican congressman (PHOTOGRAPH BY LAUREN VICTORIA BURKE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (86%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (71%); TAX LAW (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (64%); CHARITIES (61%); FOUNDATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (71%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (71%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (71%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (96%); PAUL RYAN (92%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); ORRIN HATCH (58%); SARAH PALIN (58%); TRENT LOTT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); HAITI (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2010



203 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: Schwarzenegger and Legislators Reach Deal on Long-Delayed California Budget

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- Faced with huge budget deficits and a stubbornly sour economy, California lawmakers began Thursday to approve a $126 billion state budget -- 99 days late -- including a $3.5 billion cut to the beleaguered public school system. It was a deadline-breaking record that served as a reminder of the problems that have paralyzed California government as it struggles through one of the grimmest fiscal crises in its history.
The deal includes changes in the pension system intended to roll back generous awards, negotiated by unions 11 years ago, which have emerged as a major financial burden. Employees hired after Nov. 1 would receive pension benefits set to pre-1999 levels. Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger and legislative leaders agreed to put before voters in 2012 an initiative that would double the amount of general fund revenue that goes into the so-called rainy-day funds; a similar initiative was defeated by voters last year. 
Aides to Mr. Schwarzenegger and to legislators pointed to both those efforts as evidence of progress in addressing the systematic problems that have brought the state's budget-making process to a halt.
''It's absolutely grappling with the difficulties,'' said John A. Perez, a Democrat and speaker of the State Assembly.
Aaron McClear, a spokesman for Mr. Schwarzenegger, said those changes would make it easier for future California governments to deal with recessions.
''We are now not in the position to weather the recession,'' Mr. McClear said. ''The reforms the governor fought for will absolutely help future leaders of the state government weather the recession more effectively.''
Still, in trying to cobble together the two-thirds majorities required to close a $19 billion deficit, lawmakers resorted to a series of maneuvers -- like optimistic projections for help from the federal government and putting off expenditures -- that prompted legislative analysts to warn that Sacramento had effectively handed off the problem to the next generation of leaders.
''This is a classic get-out-of-town budget,'' said Jean Ross, executive director of the California Budget Project, a liberal-leaning group that monitors the budget. ''This isn't an agreement that brings the budget into balance in the short term; if anything it will make the problems worse in the long term.''
Legislators were voting on the budget throughout the day in Sacramento, and Senate and Assembly aides said they were confident they had the votes needed to finish the work, though they said -- given the history of the way things work at the state Capitol -- the voting might extend past midnight.
That is not the end of the process though: Mr. Schwarzenegger has made clear he would use his line-item veto authority to make further cuts, meaning the final budget is likely to be less than the $126 billion that was set for approval Thursday. The budget for last year was $119 billion.
The budget includes $7.5 billion in new cuts, down from $12 billion requested by Mr. Schwarzenegger. But it also counts on receiving $5.3 billion from the federal government, $2 billion more than Mr. Schwarzenegger projected and a number that analysts described as beyond optimistic. It would also delay, until next year, allocating $1.7 million in additional school aid. And it mandates an $820 million cut in spending on hospitals for prison inmates, despite judicial rulings mandating that the state provide adequate medical care for its prisoners.
Mr. Perez said that he thought this budget would get the state through this budget year and that the changes would be critical in the years to come. But he acknowledged deficiencies with the document and, repeating a lament that has become more frequent as California's legislative system has struggled, said it was nearly impossible to put through any tough budget measures because of a requirement that every spending and tax cut be approved by a two-thirds majority of the Legislature. An initiative on the ballot in November would eliminate the two-thirds requirement on spending votes, but leave it in place on tax votes.
''Part of the problems is we have an irrational budgeting system in California,'' Mr. Perez said. ''We are one of three states that require a supermajority. That makes reaching a final agreement more difficult than it would be in other states.''
The budget does not include any new tax increases; Mr. Schwarzenegger had insisted, as a condition of agreeing to a budget, that California not raise taxes. As part of the deal, a corporate tax break that would have cost the state $1.4 billion was put off for two years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (94%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); APPROVALS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); VETO (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); LIBERALISM (76%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (75%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (73%); EXECUTIVES (69%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2010



204 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 544 words

HEADLINE: Charter Education Expanding In Chicago

BYLINE: By RACHEL CROMIDAS

 BODY:
From a windowless basement office on Chicago's West Side, Greg White is trying to answer public education's $2 million-dollar question: What is the top priority for a school in Chicago's cash-strapped district? 
The answer for Mr. White, chief executive of the LEARN Charter School Network -- which received two $1 million grants from Oprah Winfrey's Angel Network and the United States Department of Education last month -- is to open a fifth charter school in the network next fall. It is one of 10 charter schools in Chicago that Mr. White said he wanted to open in as many years, which would allow him to hire dozens of out-of-work teachers.
A month ago, those ambitious plans were in jeopardy. Chicago Public Schools approved a budget that cut district financing to charter schools by 6 percent, which could remove more than $400,000 from the network's budget this year. The two grants will cover the cost of opening the fifth school, Mr. White said.
The Noble Charter School Network, also based in Chicago, received $3.3 million from the same Department of Education grant, also to help finance its plans to open more schools.
The gifts come amid debate over the sustainability of charter schools' explosive growth, and the quality of their education. In Illinois, charter schools are public schools approved by the Board of Education, but are operated by for-profit and nonprofit organizations. Charters may develop their own curriculums and hire non-union teachers.
Charter school proponents said the awards were a vote of confidence for high-performing, nontraditional schools and could bring jobs to the school district, which was forced by budget cuts to lay off hundreds of teachers.
But Timothy Knowles, director of the Urban Education Institute, said the projected growth of LEARN and other charter school networks posed a threat to neighborhood schools because most district financing was allocated per-pupil.
Mr. Knowles said that as charter schools siphoned students from the surrounding area, neighborhood schools might face underenrollment and closing.
''The economies of scale don't work,'' he said. ''Are neighborhood school institutions going to go away if charters grow and continue to be successful?''
Andrew Broy, president of the Illinois Network of Charter Schools, is not convinced that LEARN has the financial support to grow that quickly, but he said he would rather see the network expand into more of Chicago's poorest neighborhoods.
''Whenever a business scales from 3 to 10 stores, the question is always whether or not you can maintain the same management quality,'' Mr. Broy said.
LEARN, a nonprofit organization, has a bare-bones budget that does not include gyms, auditoriums, cafeterias or playgrounds -- unless the classroom space it rents from the public schools or private landlords already includes those amenities.
Mr. White said he preferred to use extra money to bring in more teachers.
Last year the network hired 57 additional people at its four schools, some at salaries lower than those of public school teachers. Next year it expects to hire 14 full-time teachers and 9 instructional assistants at the new campus.
Mr. White said the network had received more than 150 teaching applications since Ms. Winfrey's televised donation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHARTER SCHOOLS (93%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); CURRICULA (78%); ALTERNATIVE SCHOOLS (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); GRANTS & GIFTS (76%); APPROVALS (73%); BUDGET CUTS (73%); LAYOFFS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (83%)

PERSON: OPRAH WINFREY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2010



205 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
8 P.M. (CMT) PETTY BLUE Think of Nascar, and chances are the name Petty is going to come to mind. This new documentary follows the family dynasty around the track, starting with its patriarch, Lee Petty (above, center, with his sons Maurice, left, and Richard), who raced under No. 42 and was the face of Nascar's earliest days in 1949. It continues with his son Richard (No. 43), the Hall of Famer and driver with the most wins in the sport's history -- and the only motor sports athlete to earn the Presidential Medal of Freedom -- and Richard's son, Kyle (No. 44), who has twice won one of Nascar's most prominent honors, the Myers Brothers Award. It also follows the family tragedy. In 2000 Kyle's son Adam (No. 45) was killed, more than 50 years after his great-grandfather's first race, when the throttle of his car stuck while he was practicing in New Hampshire -- sending him barreling into a wall. Kevin Costner narrates this film, whose title refers to the distinctive blue color of Richard's cars in the 1960s and '70s, the most famous of which was probably the Plymouth Superbird -- the character Richard played in the 2006 animated Pixar film ''Cars.'' In ''Invitation Only,'' at 10, Toby Keith performs songs from his new album, including the title track, ''Bullets in the Gun,'' as well as ''Somewhere Else'' and his latest single, ''Trailerhood.'' He backs them up with old favorites, among them ''Good as I Once Was'' and ''I Love This Bar,'' and answers audience questions. 
8 P.M. (NBC) DATELINE NBC Dennis Murphy reports on the capital-crimes conviction of Steven J. Hayes in the triple murder of Jennifer Hawke-Petit and her two daughters, Michaela and Hayley, on July 23, 2007, in Cheshire, Conn.
8 P.M. (National Geographic) DOG WHISPERER In this Season 7 opener, Cesar Millan rescues Howie and Terry Mandel from the aggression of their relationship-wrecking Chihuahua, Lola. Mr. Mandel, who has obsessive-compulsive disorder, is happy to love Lola at a distance. But Lola won't let Mr. Mandel get close to his wife. And what Lola wants, Lola gets.
8 P.M. (CBS) MEDIUM Allison (Patricia Arquette) worries about Scanlon (David Cubitt) when he starts having dreams about his dead brother. Meanwhile Ariel (Sofia Vassilieva) has visions of missing young women from both the past and the present as she prepares for college. In ''CSI: NY,'' at 9, a mother identifies her son as the assailant who beat her and her husband. But then another witness comes forward. And in ''Blue Bloods,'' at 10, Erin (Bridget Moynahan), Frank (Tom Selleck) and Danny (Donnie Wahlberg, above) work to find justice for a rape victim when the primary suspect in the case is granted diplomatic immunity.
8:30 P.M. (13) THE DIFFERENT FACES OF UNEMPLOYMENT: A JOBS SPECIAL REPORT ''Need to Know'' looks at the impact of not having a job on a baby-boomer couple in Portland, Ore., who have lost their business; a couple of millennials (born between 1977 and 1998) who can't find adequate employment; and a federally financed temporary jobs program. In between segments, Jon Meacham and Alison Stewart discuss the jobless crisis with Robert Reich, the labor secretary in the Clinton administration, and Sara Horowitz, the founder and chief executive of the Freelancers Union.
9 P.M. (TeenNick) DEGRASSI: THE NEXT GENERATION The school issues strict new policies regarding security and dress code, which Alli (Melinda Shankar) finds to her liking. But then rumors about what really happened in the boiler room begin to haunt her. Meanwhile Jenna (Jessica Tyler) thinks about using her pregnancy to win votes in a singing competition. ''Gigantic,'' a new series at 10, follows the escapades of some Hollywood ''it'' kids, played by a couple of young actors who know a thing or two about life in the limelight: Grace Gummer, a daughter of Meryl Streep, and Gia Mantegna, a daughter of Joe Mantegna.
10 P.M. (ABC) 20/20 Jay Schadler reports on the veracity of the documentary ''Catfish,'' Henry Joost and Ariel Shulman's festival favorite about Nev Schulman, a 24-year-old New York City photographer who becomes entangled in an Internet relationship with a Michigan family that includes an 8-year-old art prodigy and her beautiful older sister -- with whom Nev supposedly falls in love. Reviewing the film in The New York Times in September, A. O. Scott wrote: '' 'Catfish' flops down into this paradoxical reality and proceeds to generate some complications of its own. Judged by the usual standards, it is a wretched documentary: visually and narratively sloppy; coy about its motives; slipshod in its adherence to basic ethical norms.'' He added: ''But at the same time -- precisely because of these lapses -- 'Catfish' is a fascinating document, at once glib, untrustworthy and strangely authentic. I say this with a heavy sigh: this is, by far, one of the most intriguing movies of the year.'' KATHRYN SHATTUCK

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NASCAR RACING (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); HISTORY (78%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); MEN (77%); WOMEN (77%); MURDER (73%); ANIMATION (71%); ANIMATED FILMS (71%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (71%); RECORD RELEASES (64%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (64%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (62%); OBSESSIVE COMPULSIVE DISORDER (50%)

PERSON: TOBY KEITH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (75%); CONNECTICUT, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2010



206 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 819 words

HEADLINE: Who Will Rescue America's Schools?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re '''Waiting for Superman' and the Education Debate,'' by Brent Staples (Editorial Observer, Oct. 2):
We teach. We spend seven to eight hours a day with your children, sometimes an hour before school, sometimes an hour or two after school and certainly countless hours researching, planning and coordinating lessons that are just right for your children.
The system is not perfect, we are not perfect, but please do not trash us all or the public school system because there are an imperfect few among us. To say tenure is granted ''to any warm body that comes along'' is making an unjust generalization. In my case, I was observed more than a dozen times in order to be granted tenure in a school that rarely granted tenure to teachers in three years. 
I work in a high-minority, low-wealth district that is underperforming. Are all the teachers underperforming? No! I have three master's degrees and attend every professional development opportunity that will allow me to afford my children the best education possible.
I do agree that the unions are being unfairly vilified. Without the security of the teachers' union, I don't think I would be the really great educator that I am. In fact, I might have left education.
Joyce Koestenblatt Hempstead, N.Y., Oct. 2, 2010
To the Editor:
Re ''Waiting for Somebody'' (column, Sept. 30): Kudos to Gail Collins for highlighting the disastrous consequences of children's having to attend lotteries to learn whether they won a coveted spot in a charter school that might save them from becoming a statistical casualty of our ailing public school system.
''Waiting for Superman'' is not the first film to give life to this issue, nor will it be the last. But Ms. Collins's anger is misplaced when she tells the charters to stop holding theatrical lottery drawings. Federal and state laws require charters to conduct lotteries. And if they were not public, can you imagine the phone calls from angry parents of rejected students demanding to see proof?
Families want to be able to exercise choice rather than be confined to the schools that we might have to wait another 30 years for a Superman to fix. Thanks to the charter idea, students are better served.
It has now, incorrectly, become conventional wisdom that less than a fifth of charter schools succeed. Those ''data'' reflect a report whose methodology relied not only on ''virtual'' students -- composite students, rather than an actual ones -- but also on federal poverty data that are deeply flawed.
The real measure of student achievement is found in school-by-school data, which are positive for charter schools in studies by Caroline Hoxby for the National Bureau of Economic Research.
Jeanne Allen President The Center for Education Reform Washington, Sept. 30, 2010
To the Editor:
Thank you, Gail Collins, for being the ''somebody'' to speak strongly and rationally about the film ''Waiting for Superman.''
Thank you for pointing out the cruel realities of a lottery system for choosing the small number of children who attend charter schools.
Thank you for reiterating that only about a fifth of charter schools in the United States do an excellent job of teaching children.
Thank you for stating that teachers and teachers' unions are not the villains in the story of the decline of public education. You help readers remember that there are many fine teachers in public and private schools across the country.
Most of all, thank you for saying that ''the regular public schools are where American education has to be saved. We can do better.''
Teachers, administrators, parents and teacher educators everywhere would do much better if we found the resources and political will to save the regular public schools together, and soon.
Celia Genishi New York, Sept. 30, 2010
The writer is a professor of education at Teachers College, Columbia University.
To the Editor:
Davis Guggenheim's film ''Waiting for Superman'' portrays the successes of charter schools and the failures of unions and public schools. What he doesn't show us, however, are the failures of charter schools and the successes of unions and public schools.
As an educator, I am baffled that the key players in America's education system spend so much time trying to discredit one another despite the fact that they all claim to be supporting the same ideal: providing a quality education to every child in the United States.
My question is when are we going to stop focusing on who can talk the loudest and sit down to have a real conversation about improving education in this country? A conversation in which all of the players -- public schools, charter schools, administrators, teachers, unions, parents and students -- sit down, stop yelling and listen to one another.
Why are we waiting for anybody?
Kim Swanson New York, Oct. 1, 2010
The writer is a former teacher who now provides teacher development and support to teachers in New York City.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY HADLEY HOOPER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); ACADEMIC TENURE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (86%); FAMILY (77%); TEACHER UNIONS (73%); LABOR UNIONS (66%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); LOTTERIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2010



207 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 2215 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
Movies
Ratings and running times are in parentheses; foreign films have English subtitles. Full reviews of all current releases, movie trailers, showtimes and tickets: nytimes.com/movies.
'Ahead of Time' (No rating, 1:13, in English and Hebrew) The career of Ruth Gruber -- reporter, photographer, civil servant, memoirist, humanitarian and riveting raconteur, now 99 -- is remarkable, and not only for a woman of her generation. This documentary covers the striking breadth of its early years (the '30s and '40s), enlivened by her lucid memory and sensible, compassionate bearing. (Andy Webster)20101007
'Alpha and Omega' (PG, 1:28) This animated film about talking wolves in the Canadian Rockies that learn lessons about cooperation and love occasionally has a touch of old-fashioned grandeur in its western vistas, but otherwise it's funny-animal and noble-beast business as usual. (Mike Hale)20101007 
'The American' (R, 1:45) George Clooney is a shadowy assassin-type who settles down in an Italian village, where trouble follows him and he falls for a local prostitute played by Violante Placido. It all looks good -- Mr. Clooney, Ms. Placido, Italy -- and the director, Anton Corbijn, manages a quiet, oblique tone. But in the end the movie is not much more than an anthology of beautiful shots and world-weary attitudes. The Henry James novel by the same name is much better. (A.O. Scott)20101007
'Buried' (R, 1:35) This horror movie with delusions of moral grandeur portrays the ordeal of a nonmilitary truck driver in Iraq (Ryan Reynolds) who is buried alive and held for ransom. Though sloppy and overwrought, it pricks your deepest terrors of claustrophobic confinement. (Stephen Holden)20101007
'Case 39' (R, 1:49) Radiating a distinctly retro vibe, this throwaway addition to the diminutive-demon genre features Renee Zellweger as a harried social worker who unwisely fosters an at-risk 10-year-old (an exceptional Jodelle Ferland). Working methodically and without irrelevant motion, the German director Christian Alvart is consistently undermined by a screenplay (by Ray Wright) more interested in following formula than breaking new ground. (Manohla Dargis)20101007
'Catfish' (PG-13, 1:26) A sloppy, shallow, ethically compromised documentary and also a fascinating document of life, love and self-creation in the age of Facebook. (Scott)20101007
'Devil' (PG-13, 1:20) This serviceable burst of high-end hokum traps five strangers in an elevator in a Philadelphia office tower, all harboring sins in dire need of atonement. Classing up a flimsy, religion-themed plot (by M. Night Shyamalan) with the kind of limber cinematography only someone like Tak Fujimoto can deliver, the director John Erick Dowdle remains cool when the lights fail and the blood begins to flow. (Jeannette Catsoulis)20101007
'Easy A' (PG-13, 1:33) Whatever else it accomplishes, the sassy high school comedy ''Easy A'' commands attention for the irresistible presence of Emma Stone, playing a good girl who pretends to be bad. (Holden)20101007
- 'Enter the Void' (No rating, 2:17, in French) This is your brain. This is your brain on a Gaspar Noe movie. (Dargis)20101007
'Freakonomics' (PG-13, 1:33) The jocular screen adaptation of the 2005 best seller is a shallow but diverting alternative to the book, whose authors supply interstitial small talk between its four chapters. (Holden)20101007
- 'Get Low' (PG-13, 1:42) Robert Duvall plays a Tennessee hermit who arranges his own funeral while he is still alive. Bill Murray is the undertaker who agrees to organize the service, and Sissy Spacek is an old flame of the not quite deceased. The story, based on a real-life anecdote of Depression-era Appalachia, veers into some corny and overfamiliar territory, but the telling is easy and assured, and the cast is hard to beat. (Scott)20101007
'Heartbreaker' (No rating, 1:44, in French) This slapstick-infused French imitation of a Hollywood romantic comedy is saved by Romain Duris's frisky portrayal of an ethical gigolo who is hired to break up mismatched couples, without sleeping with the women. (Holden)20101007
- 'Howl' (No rating, 1:30) Not your standard biopic. Rob Epstein and Jeffrey Friedman's film uses the documentary record, some rather literal-minded animation (by Eric Drooker) and the talents of James Franco to recreate the time, place and impact of Allen Ginsberg's ''Howl.'' A rare and genuine work of literary criticism on film, this movie has the power to return you to a great poem with fresh eyes and ears. (Scott)20101007
'Jack Goes Boating' (R, 1:31) Philip Seymour Hoffman directs and stars in this mopey, minor-key story, adapted from Robert Glaudini's play, about a shy, sad fellow looking for love. Amy Ryan is the woman he falls for, but Daphne Rubin-Vega and John Ortiz as Jack's best friends (a volatile married couple) give the film its heart and authenticity. (Scott)20101007
- 'Last Train Home' (No rating, 1:27, in Mandarin language and Sichuan dialect) Lixin Fan's wrenching and compassionate documentary examines a complex and overwhelming social phenomenon -- the role of migrant laborers in China's fast-changing economy -- from the standpoint of a family that is tested and fractured by globalization. (Scott)20101007
'Leaving/Partir' (No rating, 1:25, in French) A proper bourgeois wife and mother (Kristin Scott Thomas) and an earthy (more like furry) day laborer (Sergi Lopez) embark on an illicit affair in an increasingly improbable French drama from Catherine Corsini. (Dargis)20101007
'Legend of the Guardians: the Owls of Ga'Hoole' (PG, 1:30) Or (after Harry Potter's postal pet) ''Hedwig of the Rings.'' Zack Snyder, director of ''300,'' aims for younger males with this animated all-avian opus based on Kathryn Lasky's books. And it's a hoot, full of winged warriors in helmets and metal claws, swooping vengefully in slow-motion conflagration. Each feather, sunset and 3-D perspective is rendered impeccably, and the voice talent, much of it Australian, is top-notch. But a trite setup (and some retrograde female characterizations) keep it from soaring. (Webster)20101007
- 'Let Me In' (R, 1:55) This remake of the spooky, heartfelt Swedish vampire film ''Let the Right One In'' is full of strange emotions and effects, not the least of which are two haunting and subtle performances, by Kodi Smit-McPhee as a misfit 12-year-old boy and Chloe Grace Moretz as the undead girl who eases his loneliness. The director, Matt Reeves (''Cloverfield'') uses some of the techniques of horror to create feelings far weirder and more interesting than fear and suspense. Not that horror fans will be disappointed. (Scott)20101007
'Machete' (R, 1:45) The pace is swift, the tone playful, and the screenplay peppered with one-liners in the splatter comedy that takes on the immigration debate. Whether mowed down by gunfire or dispatched by sheaves of blades, the bodies pile up in split-second blasts of carnage. (Holden)20101007
'Mao's Last Dancer' (PG, 1:57) In Bruce Beresford's film, based on the true story of a Chinese dancer who was allowed to come to Houston to study in the early 1980s and subsequently defected, ballet and modern Chinese history are window dressing for what's essentially a deluxe old-fashioned tear-jerker. (Hale)20101007
- 'Mesrine: Killer Instinct' (Part 1) and 'Mesrine: Public Enemy No. 1' (Part 2) (R, 1:53 and 2:14, in French) ''Mesrine'' may not be a tragic gangster epic in the tradition of the ''The Godfather'' movies; it is too flighty and episodic. But it has a monumental lead performance by Vincent Cassel. He fuses the cobralike menace of the young Robert Mitchum with the whipsaw, shape-shifting volatility of classic Robert De Niro. (Holden)20101007
'Never Let Me Go' (R, 1:43) Mark Romanek directs this pretty, emotionally arid adaptation of the Kazuo Ishiguro novel, with Carey Mulligan, Andrew Garfield and Keira Knightley as three young people raised to become organ donators. (Dargis)20101007
'Nuremberg' (No rating, 1:18, in English and German) A painstaking reconstruction of Stuart Schulberg's documentary, commissioned by the American military in 1945, about the first war crimes trials of high-ranking German officials. Some of the footage of Nazi atrocities and their perpetrators is nearly as shocking now as it must have been just after the war, when the full scope of the horror was only beginning to be understood. (Scott)20101007
- 'The Social Network' (PG-13, 2:00) David Fincher, working from Aaron Sorkin's script, directs a fleet, weirdly funny, exhilarating, alarming, fictionalized look at the boot-up, log-on, plug-in generation and the man (Jesse Eisenberg as Mark Zuckerberg) behind the social-media phenomenon Facebook. Andrew Garfield and Justin Timberlake co-star. (Dargis)20101007
'Takers' (PG-13, 1:47) A movie about guys who take stuff that is every bit as imaginative as its title. The clothes are nice, though, and there are some decent action sequences and performances (notably from Matt Dillon and Tip Harris, better known as the rapper T. I.). (Scott)20101007
'Tibet in Song' (No rating, 1:26, in English and Tibetan) In this stirring, dismaying documentary, Ngawang Choephel, a Tibetan musicologist, does more than just tell his own remarkable story of being imprisoned by the Chinese while he was trying to record Tibetan folk songs. He recaps Tibet's long struggle, paints a stark picture of China's efforts to erase Tibetan culture and introduces us to some courageous souls who have resisted the encroachments. (Neil Genzlinger)20101007
'The Town' (R, 2:05) Ben Affleck directs and stars in this not-bad Boston crime thriller, with decent action, good performances -- notably Jon Hamm, Jeremy Renner and Blake Lively -- and some fine, if somewhat fetishized, local color. (Scott)20101007
- 'Waiting for ''Superman''' (PG, 1:42) Davis Guggenheim's powerful, alarming documentary about America's failing public schools is a call to arms to modify a system that he portrays as held hostage by teachers' unions. The potential saviors are reformers like Geoffrey Canada, founder of the Harlem Children's Zone. (Holden)20101007
'Wall Street: Money Never Sleeps' (PG-13, 2:13) Gordon Gekko (Michael Douglas) returns in Oliver Stone's unwieldy and entertaining attempt at a moral anatomy of the financial debacle of 2008. If Mr. Stone misses the chance to turn that event into great drama, he nonetheless turns it into a sweeping, racing and intermittently pithy show. Shia LeBeouf is Gekko's would-be son-in-law; Carey Mulligan is the rogue financier's estranged daughter; and Josh Brolin is a suave titan of the Street who very nearly out-Gekkos Gekko. (Scott)20101007
'Winter's Bone' (R, 1:40) Debra Granik's flinty Ozark noir follows a teenage girl's search for her missing father, an expert methamphetamine cooker who has fallen afoul of his own outlaw kin. Jennifer Lawrence's lead performance is flawless and helps to lift this film above at least some of the usual independent-movie assumptions about rural poverty in America. (Scott)20101007
'You Again' (PG, 1:40) There is not a laugh to be found in the rancid, misogynistic comedy about high-school mean girls and their victims. (Holden)20101007
Film Series
Hollywood Loves French Cinema (Tuesday) This month's program at the French Institute Alliance Francaise is devoted to double bills of French films and their American remakes, beginning this week with Jean Renoir's hilarious comedy of class relations, the 1932 ''Boudu Saved From Drowning'' (12:30 and 7 p.m.) followed by Paul Mazursky's 1986 remake, ''Down and Out in Beverly Hills,'' with Nick Nolte assuming Michel Simon's role as a not-so-lovable tramp. Coming up: Henri-Georges Clouzot's ''The Wages of Fear'' paired with William Friedkin's ''Sorcerer'' (Oct. 19), and Marcel Carne's 1939 ''Daybreak'' with Jean Gabin paired with Anatole Litvak's ''Long Night'' with Henry Fonda (Oct. 26). French Institute Alliance Francaise, Gould Hall, 55 East 59th Street, Manhattan , (212) 355-6100, fiaf.org; $10. (Dave Kehr)20101007
Post-Punk Auteur: Olivier Assayas (Saturday through Thursday) A gifted critic for Cahiers du Cinema before making his own movies beginning with ''Disorder'' in 1986, Mr. Assayas has evolved into a versatile filmmaker fascinated both by pop music and post-modernist fragmentation (''Clean,'' ''Irma Vep'') and by nostalgia for a vanished France of high culture and moral purpose (''Les Destinees,'' ''Summer Hours''). This three-week retrospective features a selection of his hard-to-see early films (including ''Disorder'' on Monday and ''Winter's Child'' on Thursday) and builds up to his most recent, the 330-minute ''Carlos'' (Oct. 23 and 24). BAM Rose Cinemas, 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene, Brooklyn , (718) 636-4100, bam.org; $12 to $15. (Kehr)20101007
Zenith (Friday and Saturday) Directed by ''Anonymous'' (a k a Vladan Nikolic) this ''retro-futuristic steam-punk thriller'' has been gaining traction on the midnight circuit. Shot in unlovely areas of Brooklyn and Queens, it's a two-tiered story about a father and son, separated by 40 years, investigating an evil conspiracy to eliminate pain from human life. IFC Center, 323 Avenue of the Americas, at Third Street, Greenwich Village , (212) 924-7771, ifccenter.com; $13. (Kehr)20101007

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: POST-PUNK AUTEUR: OLIVIER ASSAYAS (Saturday through Thursday) A gifted critic for Cahiers du Cinema before making his own movies, beginning with ''Disorder'' in 1986, Mr. Assayas has evolved into a versatile filmmaker fascinated by both pop music and postmodernist fragmentation (''Clean''
''Irma Vep,'' starring Maggie Cheung, above) and by nostalgia for a vanished France of high culture and moral purpose (''Les Destinees,'' ''Summer Hours''). This three-week retrospective features a selection of his hard-to-see early films (including ''Disorder'' on Monday and ''Winter's Child'' on Thursday) and builds up to his most recent, the 330-minute ''Carlos'' (Oct. 23 and 24). BAM Rose Cinemas, 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, (718) 636-4100, bam.org
 $12 to $15. (Dave Kehr) (PHOTOGRAPH BY BAMCINEMATEK/ZEITGEIST FILMS) (C21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (91%); MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); FILM GENRES (89%); MOVIE RATINGS (89%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (79%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (76%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (74%); ANIMATED FILMS (74%); VISUAL ARTISTS (74%); HORROR FILMS (74%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (69%); RELIGION (64%); PROSTITUTION (51%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (50%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE CLOONEY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ROCKY MOUNTAINS (56%) UNITED STATES (71%); IRAQ (53%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2010



208 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 2403 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
Jazz
Full reviews of recent jazz concerts: nytimes.com/music.
Rez Abbasi Acoustic Quartet (Friday and Saturday) On ''RAAQ'' (AbstractLogix), a new album whose title is an acronym for this band, the guitarist Rez Abbasi brings thoughtful clarity to a program of sharp originals and interesting covers, including a piece by Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan. His partners in the quartet are the vibraphonist Bill Ware, the bassist Stephan Crump and the drummer Eric McPherson. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, West Village , (212) 989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com; $15 cover, with a one-drink minimum. (Nate Chinen)20101007
- John Abercrombie Quartet (Tuesday through Thursday) As on ''The Third Quartet'' (ECM), an effortlessly fine album released a few years ago, the guitarist John Abercrombie works here with the violinist Mark Feldman, the bassist Marc Johnson and the drummer Joey Baron, finding solid ground amid shadowy terrain. (Through Oct. 16) At 8:30 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton , (212) 581-3080, birdlandjazz.com; $30 cover, side seating; $40 center seating, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)20101007 
All Nite Soul (Sunday) The annual celebration of the jazz ministry at St. Peter's Church doubles this year as a tribute to the saxophonist, flutist and NEA Jazz Master Frank Wess, who turned 88 this year. He'll perform with the Vanguard Jazz Orchestra, and on a program with more than a dozen other musicians, including younger saxophonists like Steve Wilson and Javon Jackson. The concert, which begins at 7 p.m., will be preceded by a 5 p.m. jazz vespers service, featuring a group led by the saxophonist Joel Frahm. St. Peter's Lutheran Church, Lexington Avenue at 54th Street , (212) 935-2200, saintpeters.org/jazz; $20 suggested donation in advance, $25 suggested donation at the door. (Chinen)20101007
- Apex: Rudresh Mahanthappa and Bunky Green (Thursday) Mr. Mahanthappa, an alto saxophonist with a searching intelligence and an incisive instrumental voice, recently established a collaborative rapport with Mr. Green, a fellow alto player more than 35 years his senior. Apex is their resulting group, and the name of their album, now out on Pi Recordings; its powerful rhythm section, resurfacing here, consists of Jason Moran on piano, Francois Moutin on bass and Damion Reid on drums. (Through Oct. 17) At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan , (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; $25. (Chinen)20101007
Kenny Barron (Friday through Sunday; Wednesday and Thursday) Mr. Barron is the leading practitioner of an elegant, economical and sure-footed piano style that thrives in any mainstream setting. This weekend he wraps up a quintet engagement as part of Jazz at Lincoln Center's Coca-Cola Generations in Jazz Festival; next week he leads a quartet featuring the hard-driving tenor saxophonist David Sanchez. The rhythm section for both bands includes the bassist Kiyoshi Kitagawa and the drummer Johnathan Blake. (Through Oct. 17) At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway , (212) 258-9595, jalc.org; $30 to $35 cover, with a minimum of $10 at tables, $5 at the bar. (Chinen)20101007
Cecil Bridgewater (Saturday) On the eve of his 68th birthday, Mr. Bridgewater, a seasoned trumpeter and longtime jazz educator, leads a hard-bop contingent with Michael Howell on guitar, Kenny Davis on bass and Rudy Walker on drums. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Sistas' Place, 456 Nostrand Avenue, at Jefferson Avenue, Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn , (718) 398-1766, sistasplace.org; $20 with reservations, $25 at the door. (Chinen)20101007
Brooklyn Jazz Wide Open (Wednesday) Presented by Connection Works, a Brooklyn nonprofit jazz organization, this concert features the John Hollenbeck Large Ensemble, the ambitiously contemporary orchestra led by Mr. Hollenbeck, a drummer and composer. Also on the bill is Works -- a trio consisting of the flutist Michel Gentile, the pianist Daniel Kelly and the drummer Rob Garcia -- with a featured guest turn by Tony Malaby on tenor saxophone. At 8 p.m. (doors open at 7:30), Littlefield, 622 Degraw Street, Gowanus, Brooklyn , (718) 855-3388, littlefieldnyc.com; $14, with a $6 drink minimum; $10, with a $3 drink minimum for under 21. (Chinen)20101007
Bill Charlap Trio (Tuesday through Thursday) The pianist Bill Charlap, the bassist Peter Washington and the drummer Kenny Washington make up this neatly functional trio, which favors a crisp approach to standard-songbook fare. As was the case in each of the last few years, the band sets up for a two-week run here, ending Oct. 24. (The only night off will be Oct. 18, when the Vanguard Jazz Orchestra holds court.) At 9 and 11 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village , (212) 255-4037, villagevanguard.com; $25 cover, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)20101007
Jeff Davis (Saturday and Wednesday) Mr. Davis, a versatile and texture-aware drummer, appears on Saturday with a quintet much like the one on his exploratory debut, ''We Sleep Outside'' (Loyal Label). Next Wednesday he introduces a new trio with a pair of familiar partners, the pianist Russ Lossing and the bassist Eivind Opsvik. Saturday at 9 and 10:30 p.m., Tea Lounge, 837 Union Street, near Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 789-2762, tealoungeny.com; suggested donation, $5. Wednesday at 8 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope , (347) 422-0248, barbesbrooklyn.com; $10 cover. (Chinen)20101007
Kurt Elling Quartet (Friday and Saturday) Kurt Elling's deep musicality and literary sensibility have made him the leading male jazz vocalist of our time, if not the most consistent. He comes with his ace rhythm section, spearheaded by the pianist-arranger Laurence Hobgood. At 8:30 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton , (212) 581-3080, birdlandjazz.com; $30 side seating, $40 center seating, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)20101007
Nir Felder 4 (Friday) Best recognized for his apprenticeship with the uncompromising alto saxophonist Greg Osby, the guitarist Nir Felder spotlights his own streamlined take on postbop in a band with Aaron Goldberg on piano, Matt Penman on bass and Nate Smith on drums. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village , (212) 242-1063, jazzgallery.org; $20, $10 for members. (Chinen)20101007
Tomas Fujiwara and the Hook Up (Saturday) Mr. Fujiwara, a drummer of acute reflexes and subtle control, just released his debut as a leader, ''Actionspeak'' (482), from which he draws here, with partners like the guitarist Mary Halvorson and the tenor saxophonist Brian Settles. The album's aesthetic gestures toward mid-1960s Wayne Shorter: sleek, enigmatic postbop, more suggestive than demonstrative. At 10 p.m., the Stone, Avenue C and Second Street, East Village , thestonenyc.com; $10. (Chinen)20101007
Kenny Garrett Band (Friday and Saturday) Kenny Garrett can be among the most incisive saxophonists in jazz, a soloist of volcanic intensity and pointed insight. It has been awhile since he had a working band commensurate with his own talent; whether this one rises to the challenge is an open question. At 8:30 and 10:30 p.m., Iridium Jazz Club, 1650 Broadway, at 51st Street , (212) 582-2121, iridiumjazzclub.com; $30 cover, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)20101007
Robert Glasper Trio (Friday through Sunday) As a pianist and frontman, Robert Glasper exudes a jittery sort of charisma; as a composer and bandleader, he's disarmingly self-possessed. His trio -- for this engagement, the bassist Alan Hampton and the drummer Jamire Williams -- specializes in a brand of propulsion that has as much to do with present-day hip-hop as with 1960s-vintage postbop. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan , (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; $25. (Chinen)20101007
- Vijay Iyer and Craig Taborn (Saturday) Mr. Iyer and Mr. Taborn are both pianists, both improviser-composers, both drawn to interrogatory frictions. They perform successive solo sets here -- Mr. Iyer likely drawing from ''Solo'' (Act), an impressive album released last month -- as well as an intuitive dual improvisation, on two adjacent Steinway grand pianos. At 8 p.m., Miller Theater, at Columbia University, Broadway at 116th Street, Morningside Heights , (212) 854-7799, millertheatre.com; $25. (Chinen)20101007
The Jazz Gallery Rent Jam (Friday) Fifteen years ago the Jazz Gallery, a nonprofit performance space in the South Village, originated as a rehearsal space for the trumpeter Roy Hargrove. It has evolved into an incubator for many of the city's smart young operators, some of whom will join Mr. Hargrove for this benefit jam session, the first in a series held at City Winery. An anonymous donor has promised to match every $15 cover charge. From 11:30 p.m. to 2:00 a.m., City Winery, 155 Varick Street, near Spring Street, South Village , (212) 608-0555, citywinery.com. (Chinen)20101007
Darius Jones Trio (Thursday) Led by the robustly creative alto saxophonist Darius Jones, this working trio expands on the ideals of post-1960s avant-garde jazz, with restlessness and rigor. The group appears here on a new ''Loft/Lab'' concert series organized by the free-jazz blog Destination Out (destination-out.com) and held at a loft space near Madison Square Park. At 8 p.m., SALT Space, 1158 Broadway at 27th Street, Fifth Floor , saltspacenyc.com; $10. (Chinen)20101007
Lage Lund Quartet (Saturday) The guitarist Lage Lund has a fine recent album, ''Unlikely Stories'' (Criss Cross), that stays true to his cool-headed style while introducing a handful of sleek new compositions. He leads an ace quartet with Aaron Parks on piano, Ben Street on bass and Marcus Gilmore on drums. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village , (212) 242-1063, jazzgallery.org; $20, $10 for members. (Chinen)20101007
- Monk at 93 (Thursday) During what would have been Thelonious Monk's 93rd birthday week, he is honored by more than half a dozen pianists, passing the solo-recital baton. The elder of the bunch is Hod O'Brien, a near-contemporary of Monk's; the youngest will be Gerald Clayton, a serious comer in his mid-20s. Between them, agewise, are Frank Kimbrough, an improviser of deep experience and poise; Helio Alves and Edsel Gomez, two modernists working under the umbrella of Latin jazz; and finally a pair of players often directly informed by hip-hop, Robert Glasper and Harold O'Neal. At 7 p.m., Winter Garden, World Financial Center, West Street, south of Vesey Street, Lower Manhattan , (212) 945-0505, artsworldfinancialcenter.com; free. (Chinen)20101007
- Jason Moran & the Bandwagon (Friday through Sunday) Mr. Moran, a pianist of high-concept designs and ground-level assurance, was named a MacArthur Fellow this week, which lends this engagement a brightly momentous air. This year he released ''Ten'' (Blue Note), a superb mile marker for the Bandwagon, his working trio (sometimes quartet) over the last decade, with the drummer Nasheet Waits and the bassist Tarus Mateen. No group in jazz has a more flexibly sturdy sense of itself. At 9 and 11 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village , (212) 255-4037, villagevanguard.com; $25 cover, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)20101007
Aaron Parks Quartet (Tuesday and Wednesday) The intricacies of postbop and the temper of indie-rock share breathing room in the music of Aaron Parks, a pianist who made his Blue Note debut, ''Invisible Cinema,'' in 2008. He's working next week with adaptable partners: Steve Cardenas on guitar, Matt Brewer on bass and Ted Poor on drums. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan , (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; $20. (Chinen)20101007
Andrew Rathbun (Sunday) Drawing from his smartly busy new album, ''The Idea of North'' (SteepleChase), inspired by the classical pianist (and fellow Canadian) Glenn Gould, the saxophonist Andrew Rathbun leads an ensemble with Taylor Haskins on trumpet, Nate Radley on guitar, Frank Carlberg on piano, Jay Anderson on bass and Ted Poor on drums. At 8:30 p.m., Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, West Village, (212) 989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com; $10 cover, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)
David Sanborn Quartet (Tuesday through Thursday) David Sanborn, an alto saxophonist synonymous with unctuously gleaming crossover fare, has lately been returning to his roots: the piquant soul-jazz of Hank Crawford and, by extension, Ray Charles. ''Only Everything'' (Decca) is his respectful salute to Charles, featuring a valuable assist from the Hammond B-3 organist Joey DeFrancesco, who reprises his role here. (Through Oct. 17.) At 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, Greenwich Village , (212) 475-8592, bluenote.net; $50 cover at tables, $35 at the bar, with a $5 minimum. (Chinen)20101007
Snake Oil (Tuesday) All quackery aside, this hard-nosed collective -- with the alto saxophonist Tim Berne, the pianist Matt Mitchell and the drummer Ches Smith -- will pursue an agenda of rhythmic intensity and abstract epiphany. At 9:30 p.m., Korzo, 667 Fifth Avenue, at 20th Street, Park Slope, Brooklyn , (718) 285-9425, myspace.com/konceptions; $5 suggested donation. (Chinen)20101007
Helen Sung Quartet (Friday and Saturday) On her new album, ''Going Express,'' (Sunnyside) the pianist Helen Sung practices her brand of postbop modernism live on the bandstand at a New York club, with a cohort of saxophone, bass and drums. She does much the same thing here, in a band with the alto and soprano saxophonist Steve Wilson, the bassist Josh Ginsburg and as a featured guest, the drummer Jeff (Tain) Watts. At 8, 10 and 11:30 p.m., Smoke, 2751 Broadway, at 106th Street , (212) 864-6662, http://smokejazz.com; $30 cover. (Chinen)20101007
Nancy Wilson (Friday and Saturday) Ms. Wilson exudes a regal presence in jazz as well as in the more broadly defined arena of American popular song, and at 73 she's still a commanding performer whatever the field. She appears for two nights, playing two sets a night, at the Allen Room, maybe the city's most appropriately atmospheric room for her. At 7:30 p.m. and 9:30 p.m., Allen Room, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway , (212) 721-6500, jalc.org; $55 and $65. (Chinen)20101007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (92%); JAZZ & BLUES (90%); RECORD RELEASES (90%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (79%); MUSIC REVIEWS (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%) NEW YORK, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (57%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2010



209 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 1182 words

HEADLINE: As Daley's Tenure Nears End, Aldermen Seek New Opportunities

BYLINE: By DAN MIHALOPOULOS

 BODY:
Mayor Richard M. Daley's decision not to seek re-election next year raises the prospect of a major shift in the balance of power in City Hall.
By law, Chicago's government was designed to have a strong Council and a weak mayor, but for decades the mayor has been dominant, especially during the more than four decades that Mr. Daley or his father has been in office. Now, the chaotic succession battle could allow the Council's 50 aldermen to act as an independent counterweight to executive power, a role they have played at various periods in the city's history.
''The Council has been way too willing to just accept the mayor's word for what's right and good and not do the work that it takes to figure out, on our own, what makes sense,'' said Alderman Toni Preckwinkle (Fourth Ward), who is the Democratic nominee for president of the Cook County Board of Commissioners in November's election.
''I'm not putting it entirely on the mayor,'' Ms. Preckwinkle added. ''It's us, too. We've abdicated our responsibility.'' 
The aldermen -- who have been widely derided as a rubber stamp for most of the second Daley era -- have begun to show signs that they would like to expand their power.
On Wednesday, Alderman Scott Waguespack (32nd Ward) introduced a measure to give the Council oversight of city contracts worth more than $500,000. When he made a similar proposal last year, Mr. Waguespack said, only seven or eight colleagues in the Council signed as co-sponsors. Now, he is more optimistic.
The Council briefly gained oversight of contracts during Mayor Harold Washington's administration, but that practice ended when Mr. Daley took office in 1989.
After many of the contracting scandals during Mr. Daley's tenure, some aldermen suggested restoring oversight to the Council, but Mr. Daley defeated them. He opposed Mr. Waguespack's proposal this week, saying it would threaten to halt government operations.
Aldermen have retained some powers, including final say in zoning matters in their wards, but they did not cross the mayor on citywide issues for fear of incurring Mr. Daley's wrath.
Despite huge deficits in recent years, Council members have rarely sought to significantly amend the mayor's proposals to balance the budget.
Until 1955, when Mayor Richard J. Daley won a change in state law, it was the Council rather than the mayor that proposed a budget for the city, said Dick W. Simpson, a political science professor at the University of Illinois-Chicago and author of a Council history, ''Rogues, Rebels and Rubber Stamps'' (Westview Press, 2001).
Mr. Waguespack has called for creating an independent budget office, modeled after New York City's government. The office would analyze fiscal data from the mayor's administration.
Without Mr. Daley, the council may choose to exercise more control over appointments to positions such as police superintendent, and City Hall department heads. . The Council has almost always blessed the current mayor's choices with little debate and unanimous votes.
''They can have a profound impact there,'' Mr. Simpson said. ''The fact that they don't is a matter of politics, not a matter of law.''
The last time the Council imposed its will was in the 1980s, during the ''Council Wars'' period, when a narrow majority of white aldermen opposed Mr. Washington, the city's first black mayor. Many City Hall observers often point to that period, when Chicago was dubbed Beirut on the lake, to argue that increased aldermanic power would lead to gridlock.
It does not help the Council's cause that so many aldermen have been convicted of corruption. In addition, Mr. Daley has said at times that the aldermen, when left rudderless, fixate on relatively unimportant issues, like banning foie gras from restaurants.
Many in the business community, who heavily supported Mr. Daley, would love a similarly strong leader to be elected next year. As a minority of aldermen began to increasingly question the mayor in recent years, the Chicagoland Chamber of Commerce issued a report that said businesses might no longer enjoy the ''one-stop shopping'' that Mr. Daley provided them.
Even members of the Council who have been inclined to vote against the mayor's agenda occasionally say they doubt that aldermen would gain power at the new mayor's expense. Alderman Joe Moore (49th Ward) said he was skeptical that Mr. Daley's departure would automatically create a new era of greater Council assertiveness.
''You would like to think the City Council, now freed from Daley's yoke, would begin to act like an independent legislative branch,'' Mr. Moore said, ''but I'll tell you, the culture in this city, the deference to a strong mayor, is so ingrained. You have got 50-plus years of a political culture of deference to the strongman.''
Mr. Daley was able to placate aldermen thanks to the strong economy during much of his tenure. The mayor gives each Council member more than $1 million a year to spend on items like brighter streetlights and police ''blue light'' cameras.
''The city's financial condition might make it more difficult for the mayor to dole out goodies to keep the aldermen in line,'' Mr. Moore said. ''This might prevent the new mayor from accumulating the power that Daley and his predecessors had.''
About a month after Mr. Daley announced his retirement, many aldermen are still too stunned to know how to function without being bossed, Alderman Ricardo Munoz (22nd Ward) said.
''Not being told what to do by the cacique is new to a lot of people,'' Mr. Munoz said, using the Spanish term for a political overlord. ''There hasn't been a lot of breathing room. The mayor ran a tight ship politically.''
During the past two decades of Mr. Daley's rule, some aldermen came up with their own legislative proposals, but they did not follow through without the mayor's approval. One such stalled aldermanic initiative would have required the city to conduct cost-benefit studies before privatizing city services.
On any important matter, aides from the mayor's Office of Intergovernmental Affairs roamed the room behind the Council chambers, sometimes cursing loudly at aldermen who hesitated to do as they were directed.
From his lectern at the front of the Council chambers, the mayor at times openly threatened to cut off services to the wards of aldermen who did not back his agenda. The re-election bids of aldermen who questioned the administration were often challenged by candidates who were supported by mayoral patronage armies until a federal investigation into hiring-fraud began five years ago.
Mr. Munoz and other aldermen have expressed concern that Rahm Emanuel, the former White House chief of staff and one-time campaign fund-raiser for Mr. Daley, could become mayor and re-establish the dominance that Mr. Daley and other mayors have asserted.
Yet, Mr. Munoz predicted that many critics of Mr. Emanuel would rapidly come to his side if he took power, much as Mr. Daley co-opted once-hostile aldermen in the early 1990s.
''That has been the modus operandi: Wait to see who the boss is and try to become the boss's assistant,'' Mr. Munoz said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: How about: Alderman Joe Moore, left, said the successor to Mayor Richard M. Daley, right, might lack the financial resources to placate aldermen.
 Alderman Ricardo Munoz, left center, said the mayor ran a tight ship. Alderman Alderman Scott Waguespack, right, wants aldermen to oversee contracts. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSE MORE/CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CITIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); ZONING (78%); POLITICS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); HISTORY (75%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (74%); COUNTIES (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%)

COMPANY: WESTVIEW PRESS (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2010



210 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 6501 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
Art
Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art.
Museums
American Folk Art Museum: 'The Private Collection of Henry Darger,' through Oct. 24. This revelatory exhibition proposes, unconvincingly, that the self-taught, reclusive eccentric Henry Darger was an art collector. It presents about 40 of the 100 or so collages, drawings and images from magazines and books that he hung on the walls of his one-bedroom apartment. The revelation is in his collages, which look nothing like the big, lurid watercolors he is known for. Roughly cut and pasted and focused mainly on images of young girls, they are weirdly numinous. 45 West 53rd Street , (212) 265-1040, folkartmuseum.org. (Ken Johnson)20101007 
- Asia Society Museum: 'Yoshitomo Nara: Nobody's Fool,' through Jan. 2. This Japanese artist, known for paintings and sculptures of big-eyed toddlers and friendly dogs redolent of children's books, makes over the entire museum into a homey, deceptively beguiling blend of art, life, music and make-believe that includes a wonderland of wood-scrap passages, rooms, houses and clapboard walls. But the raw emotions of childhood here range from those inspired by punk rock to Thoreau. Take the under-10 set; don't be surprised if they get ideas. 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street , (212) 327-9271, asiasociety.org. (Roberta Smith)20101007
Brooklyn Museum: 'Work of Art: Abdi Farah,' through Oct. 17. This solo exhibition rewards the likable young winner of Bravo's reality show ''Work of Art: The Next Great Artist'' and includes works seen in the final episode: paintings, drawings and cast-resin sculptures exploring the black male body by way of Photoshop and academic realism. The earnest awkwardness of the art in this exhibition, and on the ''Work of Art'' show in general, isn't that surprising, but it's nevertheless disappointing. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park , (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Karen Rosenberg)20101007
Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum: 'National Design Triennial: Why Design Now?,' through Jan. 9. The fourth edition of this triennial is the largest yet and the most international in its reach. It is also, hands down, the most ecology-conscious. Design as defined here isn't about how to make the House Beautiful more beautiful, but about how to keep the globe afloat and give all its occupants access to a healthy patch of it. Reduce, reuse, recycle are the imperatives embodied in the work, which includes a hand-cranked grain thresher made from repurposed materials, a light bulb fueled by dirt, and digital images of a new all-green, no-car city to be built in the desert outside Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. The architectural projects included are particularly impressive, and if not every idea in the show is strong, many are already generating winds of change. 2 East 91st Street , (212) 849-8400, cooperhewitt.org. (Holland Cotter)20101007
- International Center of Photography: 'The Mexican Suitcase,' through Jan. 9. In 1939, at the start of World War II, the photographer Robert Capa fled Paris. Before leaving, he packed up some 4,500 negatives and gave them to a friend to forward to him in New York. The negatives were almost all for images of the Spanish Civil War taken by Capa; David Seymour, also known as Chim; and by Gerda Taro, who had died in action two years before. The negatives, which finally arrived in New York in 2007 after a mysterious journey, are the subject of a fascinating show that rewards the close looking it requires. 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street , (212) 857-0045, icp.org. (Cotter)20101007
Jewish Museum: 'Shifting the Gaze: Painting and Feminism,' through Jan. 30. This smart, surprising look at the women's art movement as it played out in painting begins with a studious but assertive self-portrait by a young Lee Krasner and ends with Nicole Eisenman's new canvas ''Seder,'' a distinctly nontraditional depiction of that festival meal. In between are plenty of other works that grapple with feminism and Judaism, often simultaneously. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street , (212) 423-3200, jewishmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)20101007
Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Between Here and There: Passages in Contemporary Photography,' through Feb. 13. This lively little collection show gathers photographs and videos about travel of one kind or another. The trip might be Ed Ruscha's drive down the Sunset Strip, Doug Aitken's airplane flight, Richard Long's walk through the British countryside or Bruce Nauman's jerky, robotic march across the floor of his studio. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)20101007
Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Celebration: The Birthday in Chinese Art,' through Nov. 28. In China, birthdays are many-happy-returns-of-the-day affairs. You want to make merry, but mainly you want to live long, and the Ming and Qing dynasty objects in this show, with their symbols of immortality, reflect that sentiment. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. ( Cotter)20101007
Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Doug + Mike Starn on the Roof: Big Bambu,' through Oct. 31. With a walk-in/walk-on, site-specific, thoroughly exhilarating sculpture by the brothers Doug and Mike Starn, the Met has transformed its civilized roof garden into an urban jungle. At ground level the sculpture looks like a canopied bamboo grove, but visitors who can negotiate the timed-ticket program and wear appropriate footwear will be rewarded with a heady excursion along flexible, winding ramps some 40 feet overhead -- and superior views of Central Park. See metmuseum.org/special/big--bambu/guidelines.asp. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)20101007
Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Hipsters, Hustlers, and Handball Players: Leon Levinstein's New York Photographs, 1950-1980,' through Oct. 17. Leon Levinstein (1910-88) was not a bad photographer, but viewed against the background of masters like Weegee, Robert Frank and Tina Modotti, Levinstein's focus on the seamier side of metropolitan life looks pretty routine. There are some gems in this show, like the image of two handball players, one hovering off the ground after a shot as his opponent, close to the wall, awaits the rebound. Cartier-Bresson would have envied this magic moment. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)20101007
Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Masterpieces of French Art Deco,' continuing. The largest exhibition of works from the Met's extensive holdings in French Art Deco fills a large gallery to overflowing with nearly 150 examples of art, furniture, wallpaper, decorative objects and the odd painting. Far more aristocratic than its American counterpart, French Deco devoted exquisite craftsmanship, opulent materials and historicizing design to the creation of one-of-a-kind luxury items. The desks and cabinets of the incomparable Jacques-Emile Ruhlmann quietly dominate, along with vases by Jacques Dunand and silver by Jean Puiforcat. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)20101007
- Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Sounding the Pacific: Musical Instruments of Oceania,' through Jan. 23. This fascinating survey of aural sculpture covers the waterfront from a 19th-century Hawaiian ukulele to a tree-size slit-gong from Papua New Guinea. An Indonesian zither, with a delicate, balloonlike resonator of bent palm leaves, looks ethereal enough to drift away on a breeze and was used to accompany fatalistic songs that depict life as baffling and brief. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Cotter)20101007
- Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'The World of Khubilai Khan: Chinese Art in the Yuan Dynasty,' through Jan. 2. The Yuan dynasty was established in the 13th century by Mongol invaders in China. No clear profile of their rule coheres in this big, understated show, but there are many fascinating objects to ponder. A much clearer picture of China's cultural response to the Mongol presence, can be found, in a concurrent Met exhibition (through Jan. 9) called ''The Yuan Revolution: Art and Dynastic Change,'' drawn from the museum's permanent collection. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Cotter)20101007
Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Tibetan Arms and Armor From the Permanent Collection,' through fall 2011. The paradox of militant Buddhism inspired the Met's fascinating 2006 exhibition ''Warriors of the Himalayas: Rediscovering the Arms and Armor of Tibet.'' Later Donald LaRocca, the museum's arms and armor curator, created this follow-up installation of 35 objects from the Met's collection (including five acquired in 2007). This time the focus is on defense rather than offense; examples of horse and body armor, dating from the 15th through the 20th centuries, outnumber swords, guns and spears. Most of these objects have seen more ceremonial than military action. All of them equate supreme craftsmanship with defense of the body and Buddhist principles. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)20101007
Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Vienna Circa 1780: An Imperial Silver Service Rediscovered,' through Nov. 7. Extravagant tableware was de rigueur for aristocratic dining in 18th-century Europe, and the silver plates, tureens, wine coolers and candelabra in this exhibition are part of an ensemble made for a daughter of Empress Maria Theresa of Austria. If you consider elaborate craftsmanship the measure of beauty, what's here is pretty breathtaking. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Cotter)20101007
Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Young Archer,' continuing. ''Young Archer,'' a life-size marble carving of a naked boy drawing an arrow from his lion's paw quiver, might be the earliest known sculpture by Michelangelo. Scholars disagree. On a 10-year loan from France, the legless, armless boy with a yearning expression is in the Met's bright and airy Velez Blanco Patio, where viewers may decide for themselves if it is the real thing. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)20101007
- Morgan Library & Museum: 'Roy Lichtenstein: The Black-and-White Drawings, 1961-1968,' through Jan. 2. This brilliant show zeroes in on the large finished drawings that brought Lichtenstein's bold Pop Art style to full flower. It counters the notion of his anonymous touch by stressing an egalitarian mix of commercial and fine art techniques (and displaying his drawing tools). The works are free of virtuosic refinement but full of striking contrasts -- the chiseled density of graphite versus the porosity of soft-edged Benday dots and frottage, for example. Formal and physical resonance keeps pace with the pop-cultural kind, which is no mean feat. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street , (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org. (Smith)20101007
- Museum of Modern Art: 'Abstract Expressionist New York: Ideas Not Theories,' through Feb. 28. One of two smaller shows inspired by the Modern's Abstract Expressionist extravaganza delves into the movement's legendary intellectual forum, the Club, with a cornucopia of prints, drawings, small paintings and such oddities as a rug by John Ferren and a mosaic by Jeanne Reynal, the early abstract films of Len Lye and architectural projects by R. Buckminster Fuller and Oscar Niemayer. The prevalence of lively contextualizing material and sense of MoMA's incalculably rich holdings impress, although the very premise reinforces the members-only ambience of the larger show. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)20101007
- Museum of Modern Art: 'Abstract Expressionist New York: Rock Paper Scissors,' through Feb. 28. The second accompaniment to MoMA's Abstract Expressionist show examines the objects of 10 sculptors supplemented by prints and other works on, or of paper. Forgotten names include David Hare, Dorothy Dehner and Seymour Lipton. Other artists are in the main (David Smith, Louise Nevelson) or should have been (Louise Bourgeois, Isamu Noguchi). A prevailing period look suggests that much of the material is of historical interest. But don't miss Stanley William Hayter's 1940 plaster ''Hand Sculpture,'' whose squeezed undulations presage the directness of drip painting. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)20101007
- Museum of Modern Art: 'Abstract Expressionist New York: The Big Picture,' through April 25. More generous retrenchment than expansive revision, this landmark show culls some 100 paintings, and related sculptures, prints, drawings and photographs from the unrivalled permanent collection. Yes, a shortage of works by lesser-known artists makes it all a little too MoMA-as-usual, despite the presence of works unseen for decades. But there is something for everyone -- whether the eerily abstract photographs of Aaron Siskind, the immersive gallery of Mark Rothko's radiant canvases or the no-holds-barred ambition of Jackson Pollock, at full tilt in the show's astounding first gallery. The total illuminates, thrills and provides much useful grist -- both artistic and museological -- for the art-world mill. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)20101007
- Museum of Modern Art: 'Counter Space: Design and the Modern Kitchen,' through March 14. Sometimes a kitchen is just a kitchen, but not often. This elaborate show, which draws from every department in the museum and includes some 300 design objects, examines the kitchen's complex role in everyday life (and lifestyle), product development, advertising, sexual stereotyping, at least two war efforts, contemporary art and, throughout, in the evolution of design itself. The centerpiece is a rare, nearly complete example of the cockpitlike, mass-produced Frankfurt Kitchen from 1926-27, an exemplar of the modern spirit that still looks invitingly usable. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)20101007
- Museum of Modern Art: 'The Original Copy: Photography of Sculpture, 1839 to Today,' through Nov. 1. This idea-rich theme show demands some time and concentration, but the reward is a new way of looking at modern art, with an array of images odd, fabulous and often unfamiliar telling the story of how photography and sculpture met, married, reproduced and virtually became one. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Cotter)20101007
- Museum of Modern Art: 'Pictures by Women: A History of Modern Photography,' through March 21. MoMA's photography collection is sufficiently strong in work by women that this show comes close to meeting the promise of its title. The span of 200 works by 120 artists starts around 1850 and comes up to the present, and it is packed with fantastic things. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Cotter)20101007
- Museum of Modern Art: 'Project 93: Dinh Q. Le,' through Jan. 24. The centerpiece of this moving solo show is a video about the war in Vietnam composed of documentary footage, Hollywood action film clips and contemporary interviews. In the interviews older people recall the terror created by helicopters sweeping down from the sky, but two younger men speak of their recent efforts to build helicopters that, while based on wartime models, are meant for use in farming. The small exhibition, by an artist born in Vietnam, is a swords-into-ploughshares show, with one handmade helicopter, constructed from scraps but as neat as a pin, in the gallery. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Cotter)20101007
Museum of the City of New York: 'Notorious & Notable: 20th-Century Women of Style,' through Jan. 2. This sweeping, three-dimensional best-dressed list pays homage to fashionable women from the wives of robber barons to modern business executives. Their outfits, from the museum's costume and textile collection, are arranged by color on either side of a long aisle. There's jewelry, too, coaxed from private collections with the help of the National Jewelry Institute. Everything looks spectacular, though the show isn't quite as plugged in to contemporary ideas of celebrity as its title would suggest. Fifth Avenue at 103rd Street , (212) 534-1672, mcny.org. (Rosenberg)20101007
Museum of the City of New York: 'Samurai in New York: The First Japanese Delegation, 1860,' through Nov. 7. This exhibition commemorates a visit 150 years ago by more than 70 samurai, the first known group to leave Japan after the Tokugawa Shogunate closed the country in 1630 (in response to Spanish and Portuguese attempts to convert the Japanese to Catholicism). Small cartes de viste and stereograph photographs show the samurai -- among the first Japanese ever photographed -- stern in their robes, exhibiting Bushido, the strict code of behavior to which the military elite was bound. The jarring collision of cultures is seen in a Japanese woodcut of a hot-air balloon with two American flags poking out of its basket, next to a haiku in Japanese calligraphy. The show offers a lot to think about in terms of photography and its role in early publicity and celebrity culture as well as a fascinating look at how societies responded to 19th-century stirrings of globalization. Fifth Avenue at 103rd Street , (212) 534-1672, mcny.org. (Martha Schwendener)20101007
Neue Galerie: 'Franz Xaver Messerschmidt 1736-1783: From Neoclassicism to Expressionism,' through Jan. 10. In the annals of creativity and craziness, Messerschmidt holds a secure place with his series of metal and alabaster heads, some of them self-portraits, depicting extremes of human emotion, from hilarity to terror. Several examples of these ''character heads'' have been assembled for this small but potent retrospective, which also includes the artist's commissioned portraits of Central European aristocrats and Enlightenment-era intellectuals. 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street , (212) 628-6200, neuegalerie.org. (Cotter)20101007
Noguchi Museum: 'Noguchi Reinstalled,' through Oct. 24. As part of the museum's 25th anniversary this year, this show presents about 200 of Isamu Noguchi's works from the 1920s to the 1980s. They include sculptures in stone, wood, metal and clay; maquettes and models for parks and playgrounds; and props for Martha Graham dance productions. Though unfailingly suave, Noguchi's polished abstraction no longer has the urgency it once had, but the museum as a whole is a wonderful time capsule, and the sculpture garden he designed is utterly blissful. 9-01 33rd Road, at Vernon Boulevard, Long Island City, Queens , (718) 204-7088, noguchi.org. (Johnson)20101007
P.S. 1 Contemporary Art Center: 'Greater New York,' through Oct. 18. The third incarnation of this sprawling survey of new art is inspiring for the way it channels artists' ideas and energy and dispiriting for its general inattention to art objects. Elaborately orchestrated, it includes extensive (sometimes daily) performances, participatory pieces and works in progress as well as shows within the show, some of which will change. But while it includes all mediums, it seems to have eyes only for video, performance and, intermittently, photography. Otherwise, few galleries offer much inducement to stop and look. It was not assembled with eyes wide open. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Street, Long Island City, Queens , (718) 784-2084, ps1.org. ( Smith)20101007
Rubin Museum of Art: 'Tradition Transformed: Tibetan Artists Respond,' through Oct. 18. The Rubin's first foray into contemporary art presents nine artists of Tibetan descent -- two of whom still live in their homeland -- who mix traditional and modern styles and themes. None of them deal directly with the region's politics, but most address collisions between the sacred (East) and the profane (West). Most interesting are works by Kesang Lamdark, including empty beer cans whose perforated bottoms create glowing images of divinities in their dark interiors. Rubin Museum of Art, 150 West 17th Street, Chelsea , (212) 620-5000, rmanyc.org. (Johnson)20101007
Smithsonian National Museum of the American Indian: 'A Song for the Horse Nation,' through July 7. Including saddles, riding blankets, clothing, beaded bags and much more, this exhibition brings to light a fascinating and ultimately sad chapter in American history: the hundred-year period during which horses were central to the lives of the Plains Indians. A highly efficient form of transportation, horses enabled Navajo, Crow, Comanche, Pawnee and others to expand their territories and flourish more than they otherwise would have. It also enabled them to make war more effectively, though ultimately not effectively enough. George Gustav Heye Center, 1 Bowling Green, Lower Manhattan , (212) 514-3700, americanindian.si.edu. (Johnson)20101007
Whitney Museum of American Art: 'Collecting Biennials,' through Nov. 28. This permanent-collection show has works by artists who were in past Whitney Annuals and Biennials. It caps an extravaganza of new art with a humbling and diverting mix of classics, oldies and one-hit wonders. Figurative paintings from the 1950s Annuals are paired with contemporaneous Abstract Expressionism, and some big names from the 1980s (Schnabel, Condo) look refreshed. Most eye-opening is the sense that some of the most influential artists (Warhol, Hammons) barely register on the Biennial scorecard. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Rosenberg)20101007
- Whitney Museum of American Art: 'Heat Waves in a Swamp: The Paintings of Charles Burchfield,' through Oct. 17. The 20th-century mystic of American light, Charles Burchfield, spent most of his adult life in a leafy suburb of Buffalo, painting trees aureoled in noon sunshine and gardens pulsing with cricket calls in moonlight. Yet even with nature he was tense and agonized, and this survey, organized by the artist Robert Gober, catches the mood-swing rhythm of his career. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Cotter)20101007
Whitney Museum of American Art: 'Lee Friedlander: America by Car,' through Nov. 28. The black-and-white, square-format photographs in this exhibition were taken from the interior of standard rental cars on various road trips over the past 15 years. In these pictures -- nearly 200 in all, in Mr. Friedlander's characteristically dense installation at the Whitney -- our vast, diverse country is buffered by molded plastic dashboards and miniaturized in side-view mirrors. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Rosenberg)20101007
Galleries: Uptown
- 'Else,' through Oct. 23. The artist Derrick Adams made most of the choices for this un-Chelsea show, and they're good ones, with a bunch of stimulating newish artists and some familiar, though still underknown figures, brought in for a further look. Tilton Gallery, 8 East 76th Street , (212) 737-2221, jacktiltongallery.com. (Cotter)20101007
- Roy Lichtenstein: 'Mostly Men,' through Oct. 30. This gem of an exhibition skims across the long career of an artist most associated with depictions of distressed damsels with 25 works that concentrate on portrayals of the opposite sex. Not surprisingly, the 25 works on hand include several outstanding efforts, both early and late, never before exhibited in New York. Not to be missed. Leo Castelli Gallery, 18 East 77th Street , (212) 249-4470, castelligallery.com. (Smith)20101007
Galleries: Chelsea
Mark Barrow, through Oct. 30. Mark Barrow paints on stretched linen hand-loomed by his wife, Sarah Parke, using dots of color to highlight out the all-over patterns of her textiles even as he blocks out his own, crazy-quilt-like compositions. With their shimmering, overlapping triangles and quadrangles, these collaborative works entwine Americana, modernist geometry, feminism and Neo-Impressionism. Elizabeth Dee, 545 West 20th Street , (212) 924-7545, elizabethdeegallery.com. (Rosenberg)20101007
Dan Colen: 'Poetry,' through Oct. 16. Poetry is noticeably absent from this cynical exercise in commanding space, mostly with three colossal, ostentatiously banal found-object sculptures, including a row of 13 customized motorcycles, tipped over like dominoes. Of four immense paintings, the most impressive -- and it's all relative -- are two executed in huge swaths of chewing gum. They have just enough visual vivacity to make you wonder what kind of artist Mr. Colen might be if he ever decides to stop thumbing his nose and grow up. Gagosian Gallery, 555 West 24th Street , (212) 741-1111, gagosian.com. (Smith)20101007
Gabriel Hartley, through Oct. 16. In his impressive American debut, this young British abstractionist uses oil paint, brush and spray can to fashion expanses of folded patterns and luminous colors that neatly split the difference between geometric and organic and give texture a large-scale voluptuousness. He pursues his interests into three dimensions with resin sculptures worked with paint and pigment. The mutual illumination and give-and-take are highly effective and very promising. Foxy Production, 623 West 27th Street , (212) 239-2758, foxyproduction.com. (Smith)20101007
Anton Henning, 'Ferien vom Du!/Abstract Masterpaintings,' through Oct. 16. The conflicted painting of Mr. Henning sometimes brings to mind Gerhard Richter, Sigmar Polke and other German artists who hold the paintbrush, figuratively speaking, at arm's length. Probably the most Richter-esque works in this show, his third at the gallery, are the mostly black-and-white collages that feature Teutonic pinups in bucolic outdoor settings. But in his more expressive landscapes and abstractions on canvas, and in an excellent series of black-and-white videos that show the artist skating on a frozen lake, Mr. Henning finds his own edge. Zach Feuer Gallery, 530 West 24th Street , (212) 989-7700, zachfeuer.com. (Rosenberg)20101007
Justine Kurland & Francesca Woodman, through Oct. 16. This insightful pairing of two female photographers mines the overlap. The large color images of Ms. Kurland, who was born in 1969, present young women in nature in casual, seemingly straightforward situations that skew toward strange. Ms. Woodman (1958-1981) aimed for strange and usually hit it with black and white studio works, frequently turning the camera on herself or her friends. A few of her efforts here are set outside, underscoring the not-quite-expected continuity of sensibilities. BravinLee Programs, 526 West 26th Street , (212) 462-4404, bravinlee.com. (Smith)20101007
Roy Lichtenstein: 'Reflected,' through Oct. 30. This great Pop artist's use of mirrors as a motif with which to reflect upon abstraction, his own work and a painting's potential for optical bedazzlement is the subject here. In some ways the show is thematically nothing new, but it is well-selected, and nearly every painting is a scintillating world unto itself, ample proof that Lichtenstein's bracing edge-to-edge fusion of the familiar and the abstract still has few equals in modern art. Mitchell-Innes & Nash, 534 West 26th Street , (212) 744-7400, miandn.com. (Smith)20101007
Pipilotti Rist: 'Heroes of Birth,' through Oct. 16. This Swiss artist's intoxicating art is extraordinarily original, but also in need of change. The two video installations that dominate her latest New York gallery show -- contact high and all -- really only go through the motions. Projecting images on rows of semitransparent fabric hung like laundry in one instance, and a chandelier made of women's underwear in the other, integrate space, viewer, object and image more thoroughly than before, but the videos themselves lack Ms. Rist's usual flamboyance of color and sexuality and her sharply postfeminine feminism. Luhring Augustine, 531 West 24th Street , (212) 206-9100, luhringaugustine.com. (Smith)20101007
Joan Snyder: 'A Year in the Painting Life,' through Oct. 30. Ms. Snyder is better than ever at the spirited, in-your-face, opulently textured, outrageously colorful style she established some 40 years ago, forcing Abstract Expressionist fervor through a Minimalist sieve into her own private Idaho of Post-Minimalism. Dripping, dashing, blossoming brushwork commingles with cheesecloth, burlap, plaster, rope, twigs, rosebuds or plain old dirt. Painting is confirmed as a series of episodic gestures, fleeting thoughts and local feelings that occur linearly but, meeting on a single surface, accumulate into much more. Betty Cuningham Gallery, 541 West 25th Street , (212) 242-2772, bettycuninghamgallery.com. (Smith)20101007
'The Space Between Reference and Regret,' through Oct. 23. ''The Space Between Choice and Chance'' might have been a sharper title, but this group show brings admirable focus to current art's ambivalence about making decisions. Falling between Daniel Buren's awning-stripe paintings from 1972, and canvases that Karin Sander left out in the rain last summer, are related efforts by Matthew Brannon, Wade Guyton, Allan McCollum, Philippe Parreno, Cheyney Thompson and Heimo Zobernig. The preponderance of men isn't quite in line with the emphasis on randomness, but who's counting? Friedrich Petzel, 537 West 22nd Street , (212) 680-9467, petzel.com. (Smith)20101007
- Chris Verene: 'Family,' through Oct. 16. For more than 25 years, Chris Verene has been photographing family and friends in his economically battered hometown of Galesburg, Ill. In the pictures at Postmasters, we meet his parents, his great-aunt Doris, and ''a cousin's husband's brother's cousin's cousins,'' along with a friend named Amber who is seen living with her kids in the back of a car. Individual images can look like send-ups of Midwest working-class life; the series as a whole is sweet with ungainly tenderness. Postmasters, 459 West 19th Street , (212) 727-3323, postmastersart.com. (Cotter)20101007
Galleries: SoHo
- Gerhard Richter: 'Lines Which Do Not Exist,' through Nov. 18. This small, beautifully proportioned five-decade survey of drawings by Mr. Richter is, without even trying to be, an event; it's his first career overview in the United States since his much-praised ''40 Years of Painting'' at the Museum of Modern Art in 2002. The show presents seldom-exhibited work, most of it abstract, in a medium that would seem a natural adjunct to Mr. Richter's paintings and that contributes to his reputation for enigmatic virtuosity. Drawing Center, 35 Wooster Street, SoHo , (212) 219-2166, drawingcenter.org. (Cotter)20101007
Galleries: Other
James Franco: 'The Dangerous Book Four Boys,' through Dec. 1. The determined multitasking of this famous actor has raised skeptical and envious eyebrows, but his first New York exhibition has its moments. The sculpture, installation pieces and drawings rely on received ideas, and the single-action short videos don't get much beyond Process Art 101, despite the technical finesse. But when he works at an arty tangent to conventional film narratives, as in ''Bill and Tenn'' and ''Masculinity & Me'' especially, a genuinely personal sense of style, texture and emotional tone emerges. Clocktower Gallery, Art International Radio, 108 Leonard Street, 13th floor, Lower Manhattan , (212) 233-1096, artonair.org. (Smith)20101007
Guillermo Kuitca: 'Paintings, 2008-2010, and Le Sacre, 1992,' through Nov. 6. New paintings and an installation of hand-painted, child-size mattresses from the early '90s in a freight-size elevator designed to serve as a moving gallery inaugurate Sperone Westwater's new eight-story edifice designed by Foster + Partners. The building is weirdly narrow -- a sliver -- and Mr. Kuitca's paintings, which sample conventions of Cubism, cartography and architectural planning, with coils of thorny vines adding an allegory of tragedy to comment on the trials of modernity, are pretentious and dull. Let's hope future exhibitions liven up the place. Sperone Westwater, 257 Bowery , (212) 999-7337, speronewestwater.com. (Johnson)20101007
'Kunstlerplakate: Artists' Posters from East Germany, 1967 -- 1990,' through Dec. 4. Before the Berlin Wall fell, Socialist Realism was the officially preferred style in art. But as this show of 120 posters promoting art exhibitions, print fairs and related events, East German artists often worked in more personal styles expressing dissent in subtle ways. Focusing mainly on the 1980s, when government censorship was loosening, the silkscreens, lithographs and etchings in the show tend toward Neo-expressionist style and symbolically obscure imagery. Though not terrifically arousing visually, for students of prelapsarian East Germany it offers a gold mine of historical information. Grey Art Gallery, New York University, 100 Washington Square East , (212) 998-6780, nyu.edu/greyart. (Johnson)20101007
Out of Town
- African Art Museum of the SMA Fathers: 'Permanent Collection, Part I,' through Jan. 31. If you're looking for some visual magic -- a Yoruba dance mask with a mini-zoo on top; a brocaded body wrap from Ivory Coast that seems to float on air; a 10-foot-high figure of the 1960s Malian soccer hero Salif Keita -- this small, unorthodox museum in a stained-glass-windowed hall beside a church, on the residential campus of a Roman Catholic missionary order in a leafy New Jersey suburb, is for you. 23 Bliss Avenue, Tenafly, N.J. , (201) 894-8611, smafathers.org/museum. (Cotter)20101007
Aldrich Contemporary Art Museum: 'Rackstraw Downes: Under the West Side Highway,' through Jan. 2. This exhibition focuses on the creation of one work by a painter of exceptionally vivid, anti-picturesque scenes in and around New York City. Mr. Downes executed the work, a three-panel, panoramic view from under the West Side Highway at 145th Street, on the spot over a 15-month period ending in 2009. Dozens of drawings and diary entries in notebooks shed light on this painter's process. 258 Main Street, Ridgefield, C.T. , (203) 438-4519, aldrichart.org. (Johnson)20101007
- Anacostia Community Museum: 'Word, Shout, Song: Lorenzo Dow Turner, Connecting Communities Through Language,' through March 27. Housed in a converted movie theater in a predominantly African-American neighborhood that's a cab ride's distance from the National Mall, the Anacostia Community Museum is one of Washington's cultural secrets. Its current exhibition on the scholar Lorenzo Dow Turner (1890-1972), who documented surviving traces of African languages and customs in modern African-American culture, is both an archival homage and a well-paced drama of ideas. Smithsonian Institution, 1901 Fort Place SE, Washington, D.C. , (202) 633-4820, anacostia.si.edu. (Cotter)20101007
- 'Gods of Angkor: Bronzes From the National Museum of Cambodia,' through Jan. 23. The 36 metal sculptures in this show are all from the National Museum of Cambodia in Phnom Penh, where the Sackler recently helped establish a metals conservation laboratory. Some of the Hindu and Buddhist sculptures in this compact have been beneficiaries of restorative treatment; all are resplendent examples of one of the great art traditions of Asia. Arthur M. Sackler Gallery, Smithsonian Institution, 1050 Independence Avenue SW, Washington, D.C. , (202) 633-1000, asia.si.edu. (Cotter)20101007
Hessel Museum of Art: 'At Home/Not at Home: Works from the collection of Martin and Rebecca Eisenberg,' through Dec. 19. The handmade art object -- and generally art as something to be lived with every day -- finds a strong advocate in this exhibition of 150 paintings, sculptures, photographs and derivatives or hybrids, mostly from the last decade. David Hammons, Mary Heilmann, Cindy Sherman, Richard Tuttle, Rirkrit Tiravanija, Martin Creed and Philippe Parreno serve as eminences grises to fivescore younger artists of wildly divergent sensibilities. Matthew Higgs, director of the Manhattan alternate space White Columns, chose the works and expertly corralled them in related clusters, where they talk vociferously among themselves. Bard College, Annandale-on-Hudson, N.Y. , (845) 758-7598, bard.edu. (Smith)20101007
- High Museum of Art: 'Dali: The Late Work,' through Jan. 9. The belief that late Dali is bad Dali, and most Dali is late, is once more disproved -- this time by a sprawling show that will not travel. It affirms that Salvador Dali was some kind of genius with supernal depictive skills and a desperate need to be current, which made him a precursor of Pop, Performance and Pictures art. His self-degrading hucksterism is evident here, along with his willingness to try anything, be it jewelry or holograms. But he is at his feverish best in his paintings, which encompass his faith in God and science, his rivalry with Abstract Expressionism and his determination to modernize Renaissance space. The show is well worth the trip to Atlanta. 1280 Peachtree Street, N.E., Atlanta, G.A. , (404) 733-4444, high.org. (Smith)20101007
Last Chance
- Sandow Birk: 'American Qur'an'; closing on Saturday. This show of hand-copied and illustrated Koran pages is part of a long-term project by the California artist Sandow Birk to create a cross-cultural version of a monumental book that few Westerners have read and that many seem to fear. Using an English translation and paintings of everyday Americans, from mall shoppers and suburban golfers to New Orleans flood casualties, Mr. Birk's lineup of pictures and texts is as often puzzling as telling, though there's no question that this is an ambitious and valuable work in progress. P.P.O.W., 511 West 25th Street, Chelsea , (212) 647-1044, ppowgallery.com. ( Cotter)20101007
Craig Kauffman: 'Late Work'; closes on Saturday. In the late '60s, Mr. Kaufmann, who died this year at 78, adopted Vacuform technology to create plastic, hemispheric bubbles. This lovely show presents half a dozen recent examples. Painted from behind in nacreous lacquers, they are like giant pearls. Also on view are concave forms with glittery centers that are like big flower blossoms and two translucent pieces shaped like inner tubes. Combining transcendentalist ethereality, pragmatic fabrication and tacky yet sumptuous beauty, Mr. Kauffman's sculpture is as relevant today as ever. Danese, 535 West 24th Street, Chelsea , (212) 223-2227, danese.com. (Johnson)20101007
- Museum of Modern Art: 'Matisse: Radical Invention, 1913-1917'; closes on Monday. With more than 100 paintings, sculptures, prints and drawings, this magnificent show offers a close and extended reading of the most arduous years of Matisse's long career when, spurred by Picasso and Cubism, he became more transparently and aggressively himself. He emerges here as a driven, even tormented artist, increasingly willing to risk bracingly fresh and unfinished-looking paintings that revealed not just his working process, but also an intense emotional concentration. While hardly Expressionist, this doesn't exactly exemplify the Olympian detachment habitually attributed to him. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)20101007
Karl Wirsum: 'Drawings: 1967-70'; closes on Saturday. Like Jim Nutt, his better-known colleague in the ''Hairy Who'' group of Chicago artists, Mr. Wirsum has a manic-graphic way with the figure, as revealed by these sketchbook pages from the late 1960s. His saw-toothed contour line, which sometimes evokes traditional South American patterns, lends itself to an inside-out view of the body. It's tamed somewhat in studies for a Playboy illustration of a sinewy rodeo queen, but it's unleashed in other drawings of female forms with hairy, arthropod limbs. Derek Eller Gallery, 615 West 27th Street, Chelsea , (212) 206-6411, derekeller.com. (Rosenberg)20101007

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'MATISSE: RADICAL INVENTION, 1913-1917'
 closes on Monday. With more than 100 paintings (including ''The Moroccans,'' above), sculptures, prints and drawings, this magnificent show offers a close and extended reading of the most arduous years of Matisse's long career, when, spurred by Picasso and Cubism, he became more transparently and aggressively himself. He emerges here as a driven, even tormented, artist, increasingly willing to risk bracingly fresh and unfinished-looking paintings that revealed not just his working process, but also an intense emotional concentration. While hardly Expressionist, this art doesn't exactly exemplify the Olympian detachment habitually attributed to him. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Roberta Smith) (PHOTOGRAPH BY MUSEUM OF MODERN ART, SUCCESSION H. MATISSE/ARTISTS RIGHTS SOCIETY (ARS), NEW YORK) (C19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (96%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); SCULPTURE (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); PAINTING (89%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); ART COLLECTING (79%); VISUAL ARTISTS (79%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (76%); REALITY TELEVISION (73%); DOGS (73%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (72%); POP & ROCK (66%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2010



211 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 08

LENGTH: 337 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths DEPODWIN, HORACE JOHN

 BODY:
DePODWIN--Horace John, 87 of Pompton Plains, NJ died Tuesday, October 5, 2010. Born October 28, 1922, Brooklyn, NY to Thaddeus and Lena (Kornat) Podwin. Horace served as Sergeant Major, U.S. Army, 85th Mountain Infantry Regiment, 2nd Battalion, 10th Mt. Division, 1942-1946, Bronze Star. 
Attended Middlebury College, B.A.; Columbia University, Ph.D. economics, 1953. He started his career as Manager, Economic Research, General Electric Company and was a consultant to President John F. Kennedy's administration, General Agreement on Tariffs & Trade. Horace was the President of Horace J. DePodwin Associates Co., Inc./ Economic Studies, Inc., from 1963-2005. He was also Dean of Rutgers University Graduate School of Management, 1966-1982. He is survived by his beloved wife of 62 years, Carolyn (Ohlander) formerly of Maplewood, NJ, three loving children: Andrew H., Margaret D. Harwood, and David A.; six grandchildren: Kevin S. DePodwin, Karen B. San Giacomo, Daniel A. and Michael T. DePodwin, John H. and Maggie B. Harwood. He is also survived by his sister, Rita Fink. Horace was predeceased by his sister Lucille Mulvihill. His family, friends, and business associates will remember him for his high intellect and sense of purpose, droll sense of humor, firm handshake, love for the outdoors (especially skiing), craftsmanship, integrity, generosity and public service. He was a giant to fellow mankind who he served with honor. A memorial service will be held 11am on Wednesday, October 13th, at the Wyoming Presbyterian Church, 432 S. Wyoming Ave., Millburn, NJ. For further information please contact Gallaway & Crane Funeral Home at 908-766-0250 or to light a candle to leave a message for the family visit gcfuneralhome.com. In lieu of flowers, donations are asked to be made to: Horace J. DePodwin Scholarship Fund, c/o Rutgers University Foundation, attn.: Terri Suarez, RBS Dev. Office, One Washington Park, Newark, NJ 07102; or 10th Mountain Division Hut Association, 1280 Ute Ave., Suite 21, Aspen, CO 81611.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); ARMIES (90%); CALENDARS (90%); MOUNTAINS (89%); CHILDREN (88%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); GRANDCHILDREN (73%); ARMED FORCES (72%); SKIING (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (71%); FOUNDATIONS (62%)

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (72%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (57%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (72%); GEC (LSE) (72%); GE (SWX) (72%); GE (NYSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (72%)

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (58%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2010



212 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1440 words

HEADLINE: Top Bank Halts Its Foreclosures In All 50 States

BYLINE: By DAVID STREITFELD and NELSON D. SCHWARTZ; Eric Dash and Binyamin Appelbaum contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Bank of America, the nation's largest bank, said Friday that it was extending its suspension of foreclosures to all 50 states.
The plan swept states with some of the highest foreclosure levels, including California, Nevada and Arizona, into a swelling crisis over lenders' flawed paperwork that had been mostly confined to 23 other states that require judicial review of foreclosures.
Bank of America instituted a partial freeze last week in those 23 states, and three other major mortgage lenders have done the same. The bank's decision on Friday increased pressure on other lenders to extend their moratoriums nationwide as well.
An immediate effect of the action will be a temporary stay of execution for hundreds of thousands of borrowers in default. The bank said it would be brief, a mere pause while it made sure its methods were in order. 
But as the furor grows over lenders' attempts to bypass legal rules in their haste to reclaim houses from delinquent owners, there is a growing expectation that foreclosures will dwindle for months as the foreclosure system is reworked.
Stan Humphries, an economist with the housing site Zillow.com, said what was initially cast as a problem of sloppy record-keeping is rapidly evolving into one that suggests the banks' procedures for recording loans might not have followed the law.
''The former scenario represents a hiccup for the market, maybe a 30- to 90-day slowdown in foreclosure initiations,'' Mr. Humphries said. ''The latter scenario is more like hitting a wall.''
The uncertainty is putting the housing market in turmoil and causing vast confusion. Bank of America, for example, said it was not halting sales of foreclosed properties to new owners, but Fannie Mae, the giant mortgage holding company, is doing exactly that with properties it bought from Bank of America.
One real estate agent in Florida said Friday that he had six deals involving former Bank of America properties that had been at least temporarily scuttled. Representatives for Fannie, which was taken over by federal regulators after it failed two years ago, did not return calls.
Real estate agents said the extent of any disruption depended on how long the moratorium lasted, how many lenders ultimately participated -- and what people in default decided to do.
''If it's still January, February, March, and they're not foreclosing, you'll see a big effect,'' said Jim Klinge, an agent in San Diego. ''It'll be a banker's holiday, free rent for everybody and a lawyers' gold mine.''
As soon as Bank of America announced its freeze in a terse press release, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid and Edolphus Towns, the New York Democrat who leads the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, both pointedly asked other lenders to follow suit.
Increased pressure also came from Christopher J. Dodd, the chairman of the Senate Banking Committee, who announced a Nov. 16 hearing on foreclosures.
The other lenders, however, did not seem to be swayed.
JPMorgan Chase, which has halted foreclosures in the 23 states where they need a judge's permission, says it is putting hundreds of lawyers and executives to work addressing what it characterizes as a ''technical'' paperwork problem with 56,000 mortgages with improper documentation. Officials have no plans to halt foreclosures nationwide, and believe they can fix the problems within weeks, they said.
Chase officials acknowledge they had a flawed process, but they say they have not mistakenly foreclosed on any homeowners, because the underlying information is accurate. People close to the bank say that about one-third of the properties tied to mortgages under scrutiny are vacant, in line with their assessment of the overall industry.
The average borrower that Chase has foreclosed on, these people added, has not made a payment on the mortgage for about one and a half years -- a figure that they say is also consistent with the industry.
Inside Citigroup, which has not suspended foreclosures, officials said they were breathing a sigh of relief. Sanjiv Das, the head of CitiMortgage, began a review of loan servicing processes about 18 months ago in anticipation of a groundswell of foreclosures.
At that time, Citi stepped up its employee training and tightened its documentation processes, giving officials there confidence that they have sidestepped the document issue. But given the huge number of mortgages it processed and its sprawling operations, Citi -- which has faced one embarrassment after another -- is not publicly declaring victory.
On Friday, Wells Fargo, another big lender that has not halted foreclosures, continued to maintain that its foreclosure processes were accurate and said it was not planning to initiate a nationwide moratorium.
''As a standard business practice, we continually review and reinforce our policies and procedures,'' said Vickee Adams, a Wells Fargo spokeswoman. ''If we find an error or if an improvement is needed, we take action.''
Bank of America's chief executive, Brian T. Moynihan, speaking at the National Press Club in Washington, said he did not believe the bank's action would disrupt the housing market.
''We haven't found any problems with the foreclosure process and what we're saying is that we'll go back and check our work one more time,'' he said.
Not only is Bank of America watched more closely as the nation's largest bank, it also finds itself deeper in the subprime mortgage mess. It holds $102 billion in subprime loans on its balance sheet from the period when lending standards were most lax -- 2005 to 2007 -- more than JPMorgan Chase, Citigroup or Wells Fargo, according to a report by Christopher Kotowski, an analyst with Oppenheimer.
Bank of America's troubled mortgage portfolio is a legacy of its June 2008 acquisition of Countrywide, a subprime specialist that was among the financial institutions with the most troubled loans, as well as its January 2009 merger with Merrill Lynch, which was a major player in the business of taking mortgages and transforming them into securities to be sold to investors.
In addition, as the beneficiary of two capital infusions by Washington under the federal bailout, Bank of America was among the banks most dependent on Washington to help survive the financial crisis, receiving $45 billion from taxpayers. Of that, $20 billion came in emergency aid after Merrill's losses were revealed.
That money has been paid back, but several analysts said the company was eager to maintain good relations with the government, and emphasized that restoring the bank's public image was a crucial factor in the action on Friday.
''What prompted Bank of America is they see the political writing on the wall, and this has clearly become a political issue,'' said Guy D. Cecala, the editor of Inside Mortgage Finance. ''Almost every lawmaker is calling for a national mortgage foreclosure moratorium, and given the momentum out there, they wanted to deal with it on their own terms.''
In fact, earlier this year, with a government ban on automatic overdraft fees for debit cards looming, Bank of America actually went further than its rivals and pre-emptively eliminated the overdraft option entirely. Other banks allow customers to now opt in to the program, which can result in huge charges for small overdrafts.
Another reason for Bank of America's broader action, suggested Richard X. Bove, an analyst with Rochdale Securities, is that the attorney general of the state where it is based, North Carolina, has called on the bank to halt foreclosures there.
''It's a pre-emptive strike,'' he said. ''The smartest thing to do is to get ahead of the attorneys general around the country on this.''
Correction: October 15, 2010, Friday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Saturday about Bank of America's decision to extend its suspension of foreclosures nationwide misstated the date of its merger with Merrill Lynch, a major player in the business of securitizing mortgages. The merger took place in July 2008, not January 2009.
Correction: October 16, 2010, Saturday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article last Saturday about Bank of America's decision to extend its suspension of foreclosures nationwide misstated the date of its acquisition of a company specializing in subprime mortgages, and a correction in this space on Friday misidentified that company. Bank of America acquired Countrywide -- not Merrill Lynch -- and it did so in July 2008, not July 2009. (As the article correctly noted, Bank of America's merger with Merrill Lynch was completed in January 2009.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''We'll go back and check our work one more time,'' Brian Moynihan, the chief of Bank of America, said Friday in Washington. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN HOFFMAN/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (75%); HOUSING MARKET (75%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (75%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (72%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (61%); JUDICIAL REVIEW (56%); HOLDING COMPANIES (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (65%); ZILLOW INC (55%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%); Z (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (65%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (65%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: BRIAN MOYNIHAN (59%); HARRY REID (57%); ED TOWNS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEVADA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2010



213 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1226 words

HEADLINE: Airlines Find a Cruising Speed

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
VICTORVILLE, Calif. -- For the first time since their industry was deregulated in the late 1970s, airlines in the United States have managed to hold the line on the number of planes they fly.
Evidence of this discipline can be seen at airports around the country, where empty seats are increasingly difficult to find and fares have jumped. It can be seen at a former military base here on the edge of the Mojave Desert, where a record number of airplanes are stored, awaiting better days. And it is reflected in the airlines' bottom line as the industry returns to profitability.
The airlines tried repeatedly in the past to maintain such capacity restraint, but each time, their efforts fell apart as new competitors sprang up and vied for market share. But this time has been different because of a unique set of circumstances -- a result of both the weak economy and the repeated shocks the industry has suffered in the last decade. 
The steep jump in oil prices, starting three years ago, forced the airlines to slow orders of new planes. Then, as the recession hit, more than a dozen airlines went out of business, and higher financing costs made it harder to establish new ones. A string of mergers among the big carriers further shrank the number of players. And even low-cost airlines, which once provided the most feisty competition, lately have shown signs of caution.
''It's a discipline based on fear, and that's basically what makes it so effective,'' said Hunter K. Keay, an airline analyst at Stifel Nicolaus, who said he expected that the number of scheduled flights in the United States would remain essentially flat this year compared with last. ''It's the first time airlines have done this voluntarily, outside of bankruptcy proceedings.''
The result has been less a case of anticompetitive behavior and more an instance of self-interest on a broad scale. It also reflects a more timid -- and perhaps chastened -- industry than in previous decades when aggressive executives competed fiercely with each other.
Airlines trimmed their capacity in recent years by grounding planes, reducing the number of flights they offered between cities and flying smaller planes, said Richard L. Aboulafia, an analyst at the Teal Group, a consulting firm in Fairfax, Va.
At 7 percent, last year's cuts in capacity (measured by the industry in units of one seat flown per mile) were the deepest since 1942, as demand for air travel plummeted in the depths of the recession. And while the airlines have reversed some of the deepest cuts this year, they have not kept up with the growth in demand. According to the International Air Travel Association, demand has risen by 6.1 percent so far this year, yet airlines added just 1.5 percent more seats.
''American carriers have done a stellar job of holding the line on capacity over the past two years, and they show no sign of giving up,'' Mr. Aboulafia said.
For passengers, the result is pretty obvious: ticket prices have risen, although airline experts point out that the comparison may be skewed because last year's fares were especially low in the depths of the recession.
Still, midweek direct flights can often run up to $1,000 these days. Round-trip flights between New York and Portland, Ore., now start at $700. Flights between Chicago and San Francisco over the Thanksgiving weekend will cost at least $440 round-trip if bought today, and fares are expected to rise even more as the holiday season gets closer.
Instead of adding more planes as demand has risen, the airlines have put more people onto their scheduled flights. Airlines now routinely fill more than 80 percent of their seats -- an exceptionally high level for an industry that traditionally sells 70 percent of its seats.
''The idea of 90 percent load was insane 20 years ago,'' said Andy Golub, an airline expert at Ascend, an aviation consulting firm. ''Now, it's a target for the peak season.''
The decline in capacity began when oil prices spiked in 2007 and 2008. The airlines grounded many of their least fuel-efficient planes, rethought their growth plans and ended up delaying or canceling orders for new planes to save cash.
Airlines in the United States have 167 wide-bodied airplanes on order, including 38 scheduled for delivery by 2015, said Craig Jenks, the president of Airline/Aircraft Projects, a consulting firm in New York. By contrast, the 14 largest foreign carriers expect 627 wide-bodied planes to be delivered in the next five years, many going to the fast-growing airlines in the Middle East.
''There is very little growth in their outlook,'' said Mr. Jenks, who pointed out that many of the new orders in the United States were aimed at replacing existing aircraft. American Airlines, for instance, is planning to replace its entire fleet of older McDonnell Douglas MD-80s over the next decade with new more fuel-efficient Boeing 737s.
The airlines have also benefited from delays with the new Boeing 787s; American, Continental, Delta and United all have the planes on order.
At the same time, fewer airlines are competing after bankruptcies culled the field. Now, with the mergers of Delta and Northwest, United and Continental and Midwest and Frontier, and Southwest's planned purchase of AirTran, the number of existing airlines is shrinking even further.
The low-cost carriers, too, are behaving more like the long-established airlines. While some, including Allegiant Airlines and Virgin America, have added new routes and flights, Southwest and JetBlue Airways are not growing as aggressively as they were just a few years ago.
Airline executives argue that they need to manage their capacity much more closely now than in the past.
''The marketplace is not seeing a flood of capacity back into the market where demand doesn't warrant it,'' said Hank Halter, the chief financial officer of Delta Air Lines. ''All the airplanes in the desert indicate the significant capacity restraint that carriers have undertaken.''
At the nation's largest desert storage facility, in Victorville, some 200 airplanes are parked side by side, their wings nearly touching.
Aircraft of all makes and sizes, from Boeing 747 jumbo jets to single-aisle planes like Airbus A320s, are stored here waiting to be called back to action.
''They come here because of the dry air,'' said Jeff A. Lynn, the general manager at Southern California Aviation, a subsidiary of Pratt & Whitney that runs the place. He said that planes were particularly susceptible to humidity and corrosion.
Planes stored here are handled with care. Special fluids are pumped into the engine to lubricate internal parts, windows and open gauges on the fuselage are covered to protect them from dust, and the wheels are wrapped in plastic to prevent damage.
On one side of the airport, a few planes, including venerable Lockheed L-1011 TriStars, are scheduled to be cut up, stripped of their equipment and sold as scrap metal. But the vast majority of planes just sit there, a vignette of commercial aviation. Mr. Lynn said that the number of stored aircraft hit a peak of about 250 in February.
Airlines may not be able to hold on to their strategy, however, once the economy regains momentum.
Mr. Lynn has already noticed a rebound in the business. ''Most of these planes will come back into service,'' he said. ''Once the economy turns around, no one wants to store a plane.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: About 200 airplanes are parked at an airport in Victorville, Calif. ''They come here because of the dry air,'' said Jeff A. Lynn, the general manager. (B1)
Workers dismantling an airplane in Victorville, Calif., on a former military base on the edge of the Mojave Desert. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B2) CHARTS: Planes on Furlough: The number of planes in storage is at its highest level since 2002, after the 2001 terrorist attacks. (Source: Ascend) (B1)
Fewer Planes, More Passengers: Since 2007, airlines have been flying fewer flights
even as the number of passengers begins to rebound this year
 making for ever fuller flights. (Source: Bureau of Transportation Statistics) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); DEREGULATION (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); MARKET SHARE (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%); OIL & GAS PRICES (67%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (60%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF TRANSPORTATION STATISTICS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MOJAVE DESERT (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2010



214 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1104 words

HEADLINE: Anti-Incumbent Fervor Skips Tennessee District

BYLINE: By CAMPBELL ROBERTSON

 BODY:
MANCHESTER, Tenn. -- Amid the rolling hills of Tennessee's Fourth Congressional District, which wraps around the state's rural middle like a cigar band, it is difficult to find a lot of enthusiasm for the Obama administration. The residents of the district -- farmers, factory workers, small business owners -- are abidingly conservative.
But they do love their incumbents. Since the district was configured in its current form in 1983, not one incumbent has been voted out. And though he is facing some sharp headwinds this time around, Lincoln Davis, a four-term Democrat, is not planning to be the first.
Mr. Davis is sticking to the Blue Dog playbook that has served him and other Southern Democrats for cycle after cycle, and one that is being copied across the country this year by other Democrats who are scrambling to separate themselves from the national party. The golden rule: keep it close to home. 
''In the district that I represent, it is a local race, it is not a national race,'' Mr. Davis said. He added, ''People know me.''
Republicans in Tennessee do not deny Mr. Davis's folksy appeal, which is why some of them see the race, which has been thinly polled, as a national bellwether.
''He's a good ol' boy and everybody likes him,'' said Jeff Ward, a lawyer in the western part of the state who has advised several state and local Republican campaigns. ''If he loses, it will be the tidal wave.''
First elected to office in 2002, when he promised during the campaign that no one would ''outgun me, outpray me or outfamily me,'' Mr. Davis has long adhered to the Blue Dog playbook, trumpeting endorsements by the National Rifle Association and National Right to Life and describing himself as an ''independent conservative.''
He voted against the health care bill and the climate change bill, though he did vote for the stimulus, approving of its financing of rural infrastructure projects.
''Some people say, 'Well, he's a Democrat,' '' said Tracy St. John, 41, who works at the Jiffy Burger here and describes herself as a swing voter. ''But I like him.''
That is about as good as Democrats can hope for this year. Republicans are having none of it. They argue, as they do in many Blue Dog districts, that a conservative Democrat is still a Democrat, and cannot be trusted.
''He votes as he needs to for his constituency but not as he really wants to,'' said John Shields, an engineer in a factory and head of a county Republican Party in Mr. Davis's district.
In an interview, Scott DesJarlais, a physician and the Republican challenger, highlighted Mr. Davis's vote for the stimulus package, which Mr. DesJarlais considers wasteful spending. And even though Mr. Davis voted against the health care bill, Mr. DesJarlais criticized him for not actively trying to stop it.
Mr. DesJarlais' campaign Web site decries Mr. Davis's ''tendency to hide from his liberal votes in D.C. with 'aww shucks' rhetoric and stories about pickup trucks back home.''
Mr. Davis has hardly been liberal in Washington, but he has not distanced himself from the party with the fervor of some others. The Democrat running in Tennessee's Sixth District, Brett Carter, called for Nancy Pelosi to step aside as speaker. In Mississippi, Gene Taylor, a Democrat running for his 12th term, signed a petition to repeal the health care plan.
By one school of Democratic campaign strategy, these moves are missteps, as they return the conversation to the sore subject of Washington rather than keeping it trained on the district. But there are others who, while agreeing that Democrats should not so blatantly run from the party agenda, argue they should not hide from it either.
Steve Jarding, a Democratic political consultant, has long encouraged Democrats to embrace the culture of the rural South, arguing that it dovetails with the party's history of populist economic policies.
But Mr. Jarding insists that culture is not enough on its own, even this year. Democrats should not be defending their cultural bona fides while steering clear of the party's policies, he said -- they should be standing up for the whole package.
''I don't see Democrats out fighting on the policy side,'' Mr. Jarding said. ''The confidence in Washington is so low, it's: 'I'm going to fall back to culture.' I would say absolutely, use culture, but if you think that alone will put you over the top, well, you've got to rethink.''
There is, of course, another way to avoid talking about what is going on in Washington, and that is to keep the focus on the fitness of the opponent, which Democrats have been doing nationwide. Mr. Davis's campaign is no exception, and on Friday evening it released an ad citing a series of lurid accusations from Mr. DesJarlais' former wife in court papers, part of what appeared to be a very messy divorce.
The accusations in the ad have been percolating around the district for weeks. Mr. DesJarlais said in an earlier interview that they were false -- his former wife was found in contempt at one point -- and that they simply distract from the issues. But a spokesman for the DesJarlais campaign said that voters have been calling about them, prompting an ad, also released on Friday, in which Mr. DesJarlais' current wife vouches for her husband.
Still, this tactic seems to have worked to a degree in a much higher-profile race in western Tennessee, though it involves a somewhat less-salacious topic.
When John Tanner, an 11-term Democrat and a founder of the Blue Dog coalition, announced he was retiring from the Eighth Congressional District seat, Republicans fought excitedly for the nomination, leading to the most expensive House primary in the country. Left standing was Stephen Fincher, a gospel-singing farmer from Frog Jump, who promised to ''Plow Congress.''
He has since been well-financed and widely favored over his Democratic opponent, Roy Herron, a state senator. But questions raised by Mr. Herron's campaign about Mr. Fincher's campaign filings and one of his contributions -- as well as Mr. Fincher's refusal to address those questions -- have dominated local news coverage for weeks.
The questions stoked suspicion among fiscal purists and some Tea Party members, who are already critical of Mr. Fincher for accepting federal farm subsidies. But they are supporting a third-party candidate, Donn Janes, in any event. Mr. Herron has been endorsed by the National Rifle Association and has written a book on God and politics. But, Mr. Ward said, the Democrat would not get his support even if he dressed up and sang Charlie Daniels songs.
''If he was Charlie Daniels,'' Mr. Ward said, ''it still wouldn't make a difference.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Talking politics in the Fourth District were, from left, Tracy St. John, David Pennington, Mickey Layne and Sam Rittenberry.
Roy Herron, a Democrat running in the Eighth Congressional District, has won the National Rifle Association's endorsement.
 With signs at the ready, a group waited for transportation to a rally in Murfreesboro, in the Sixth Congressional District.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); HEALTH CARE (77%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); FACTORY WORKERS (72%); INTERVIEWS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL RIFLE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (59%)

PERSON: LINCOLN DAVIS (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); SCOTT DESJARLAIS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TENNESSEE, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2010



215 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1207 words

HEADLINE: Setting Life and Loss to Song, and Seeking a Stamp of Approval

BYLINE: By DAVID ROONEY

 BODY:
''There are 30 shows in the New York Musical Theater Festival, so you have a one in 30 chance you came to the right show,'' said David Rossmer, addressing the audience at the start of ''V-Day,'' which he and Steve Rosen wrote and perform.
After I sampled eight shows during the opening stretch of the festival, which runs through Oct. 17 at theaters across Midtown Manhattan, those slim odds didn't seem wildly inaccurate. Whether you agree depends on your idea of ''the right show.''
There's a cheerleader vibe in the audience at many of the performances in this annual developmental showcase, now in its seventh year. The festival's role in propelling forward musicals like ''Next to Normal,'' ''Altar Boyz'' and ''[title of show]'' in their commercial evolution has clearly infected fans eager to be in on the next discovery. 
There's also a let's-put-on-a-show spirit invigorating the ensembles that makes you want to give their under-resourced vehicles the stamp of road-worthiness. But in this year's patchy lineup, the raw material for shows with significant potential seems lacking.
Memorable musical theater is about those transporting moments when a song reaches out and communicates that ineffable something to the audience, connecting with our feelings and deepening our insights in ways that dialogue-based scenes rarely can.
I had my first such moment a few days into my festival rounds, when melody, meaning and a surge of genuine emotion made me sit up and pay attention. It's telling, however, that the song was ''Losing My Religion.''
Anthony Rapp sings that almost 20-year-old R.E.M. hit while recapping his 1994 audition at New York Theater Workshop for ''Rent.'' In his poignant solo show, ''Without You,'' Mr. Rapp shares his experience of the birth and explosive success of that musical, but also the parallel losses of that show's composer, Jonathan Larson, and of Mr. Rapp's mother, who died of cancer in 1997.
Adapted from the performer's memoir, this tender reflection celebrates and mourns with equal conviction, even if its two halves are imperfectly balanced.
As heartfelt as it is, Mr. Rapp's account of his mother's slow fade doesn't match the eloquence and economy of his remembrances of ''Rent.'' And next to the numbers he reprises from that show, the new songs that Mr. Rapp composed with various collaborators are a mixed bag. But the sincerity and rawness of this very personal piece make it deeply moving.
Keith Varney takes a lighter approach to the bruises of life and loss in ''I Got Fired,'' his ''semi-autobiographical, sort-of-true revenge musical'' about being pink-slipped from an administrative grunt job at a Manhattan medical school.
The lyrics too often fall back on sophomoric vulgarity, but Mr. Varney, who plays himself, writes a punchy tune. And beneath the jocular tone, there's an expansive shout-out to the masses of overqualified people stagnating in office cubes across the globe, performing menial tasks while less-deserving climbers who refuse to play fair forge ahead.
The title ''My Mother's Lesbian Jewish Wiccan Wedding'' makes the show sound like one of those wacky, long-running hit comedies that you succeed in missing even through the most parched of theater seasons. But this is a low-key charmer in a sweet, folky vein, which features possibly the first history of gay marriage told in a song.
This warmly observed show was written by David Hein and Irene Sankoff, who appear as themselves. With a neo-troubadour vocal style not unlike John Darnielle's of the Mountain Goats, Mr. Hein strums his guitar and guides us through his parents' divorce and his mom's journey north from Nebraska to find love and a new sense of herself in the arms of a Canadian earth mother. It helps that the newlyweds are played by such engaging performers: Liz Larsen and Ann Harada.
A composer's personal stake is self-evident in the title of ''Jay Alan Zimmerman's Incredibly Deaf Musical,'' which chronicles the struggle to reconcile his love of music with the loss of his hearing. There's a thoughtful show in here somewhere, again elevated by authentic experience. But it's compromised by an overreaching, chaotic structure, with too many underdeveloped ideas and fragmented characters jostling for focus.
Earnestness hobbles Alex Wyse's ''Nighttime Traffic,'' a show littered with synthetic emotional peaks and shapeless songs. This chamber piece aims for profundity but remains inconsequential in its daft story of a young gay couple popping magical pills to slow time while one of them awaits a heart transplant. Introspective musicals are hard to do, so if you have only platitudes about savoring life's small moments to share, don't try.
Mr. Wyse's misguided attempt at something serious is preferable to the hackneyed complaints of ''Therapy Rocks.'' It doesn't, by the way. Instead, this instantly forgettable show, with music and lyrics by Karen Bishko, strings together girl-grief cliches and bland ersatz pop.
For a moment, things threaten to get interesting as the diminutive Jewish protagonist rails against men whose romantic radars are restricted to ''beanpole blond goddesses with Ivy League brains.'' But in the post-''Sex and the City'' age, her whining about the agonies of singledom sounds numbingly familiar.
You've got to feel bad for Mark McDaniels and Donald Garverick, the team behind the self-consciously cute ''Show Choir!,'' which made its debut at the New York International Fringe Festival in 2007 but inevitably will be dismissed as an attempt to board the ''Glee'' bandwagon.
The inescapable truth, though, is that this cartoonish account of the meteoric rise and fall of a middle-American high school singing group has been rendered irrelevant by television. Not only has ''Glee'' done it better since, but the TV-documentary framing device has also been trumped by the BBC reality series ''The Choir.''
As for its portrait of an egomaniacal entrepreneur driving the kids to feed his own delusions of greatness, ''Show Choir!'' has nothing on the sublime self-absorption of Mr. G in HBO's ''Summer Heights High.''
While it's less a full-bodied musical than a comedy with songs, I responded more warmly to the unassuming charms of ''V-Day.'' Relating their story of a luckless mensch who catches a break in love just as he becomes convinced that nice guys finish last, Mr. Rossmer and Mr. Rosen infuse the material with unforced humor and genuine affection for their characters. Their relaxed chemistry extends to an appealing cast that features the show's three multitasking musicians.
The ''V-Day'' writers are not likely to make anyone's list of the next great musical-theater auteurs, but their show's refreshing modesty is part of what makes it work.
I confess that I skipped the Dorothea Lange bio-musical and the rock opera adaptation of ''Tess of the d'Urbervilles'' (yes, really), but on the evidence of the other festival entries I caught, there are few contenders here with the complexity or confidence to tag them for major discovery.
Unless, of course, Michael Stipe cares to step forward. Perhaps there's a brilliant musical waiting to happen with the R.E.M. frontman's name on it.
The New York Musical Theater Fesival runs through Oct. 17 in Midtown Manhattan; nymf.org.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Keith Varney's ''I Got Fired'' is among the 30 works at the New York Musical Theater Festival. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CZERTON LIM)
Anthony Rapp, top, in ''Without You,'' and above from left, Tiffan Borelli, Paul Amodeo and Amber A. Harris in ''Jay Alan Zimmerman's Incredibly Deaf Musical.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUELLEN FITZSIMMONS
 GEOFF COHEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (91%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); MUSICAL THEATER (90%); MUSIC (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2010



216 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1198 words

HEADLINE: Hard on Illegal Migrants, Haven for Refugees

BYLINE: By JASON DePARLE

 BODY:
PHOENIX -- Here in Arizona, illegal immigrants get the boot. But refugees get the welcome mat.
Even as officials rage at what they have called the ''invasion'' of illegal immigrants, mostly Mexicans, Arizona has welcomed thousands of legal immigrants from such grief-torn lands as Somalia, Myanmar and Iraq, and is known for treating them unusually well.
Indeed, the scorched expanse of the Phoenix valley can seem like a giant resettlement lab. Bosnians trim the watered lawns of the Arizona Biltmore, and Karenni speakers have their own prenatal class at St. Joseph's hospital. A Sudanese goat farmer is thriving in a desert slaughterhouse built with a micro-enterprise loan. (He is glad to demonstrate his skill in turning goats to goat meat.)
Hai Doo, a laundry worker from Myanmar, got grants to buy his first home. Yasoda Bhattarai, a new mother from Bhutan, credits 10 weeks of free hospital care for saving her daughter, who was born with tuberculosis. ''Whenever people ask me about Phoenix, I tell them it is the best place,'' she said. 
Only three states accepted more refugees on a per capita basis over the past six years. Arizona took nearly twice as many refugees per capita as its liberal neighbor, California, and more than twice as many per capita as New York, New Jersey and Connecticut.
''In the degree of welcome and receptivity we see, I would certainly put Arizona at the top,'' said Robert Carey, a vice president at the International Rescue Committee, which resettles refugees in a dozen states.
The work contrasts with the state's renown as the scourge of illegal immigrants, whom critics blame for driving up crime, stealing jobs and burdening hospitals and schools.
''We're not anti-immigrant -- never have been,'' said State Senator Russell Pearce, a Republican who is a leading critic of illegal immigration. ''But we expect people to follow the law.''
Mr. Pearce sponsored a new law that would give the police greater power to question people about their immigration status. The Obama administration has sued, arguing the law usurps federal power and encourages racial profiling.
Numerically, the groups do not compare; Arizona took in about 4,700 refugees last year, but is thought to have about 375,000 illegal immigrants. Refugees are not economic migrants but survivors of war and persecution whom the United States admits for humanitarian and foreign policy reasons. In fleeing violence, many refugees themselves illegally crossed borders overseas.
Refugee groups in Arizona sometimes feel caught in the political crossfire, wanting to emphasize that their clients are legal immigrants without taking sides in the larger war.
''We don't want to be in the position of saying one group is good and another is bad,'' said Robin Dunn Marcos, who runs the rescue group's Phoenix office.
Arizona first drew refugees because the cost of living is low, and until the recession the state had lots of entry-level jobs open to non-English speakers, like housekeeping and lawn care. Early success, with Bosnians and Kosovars in the late 1990s and later with war orphans from Sudan, helped build local support.
Efforts intensified after the hiring in 2002 of a new state coordinator, Charles Shipman, who is married to a former Cambodian refugee and known for his advocacy. In recent years, Arizona has taken more than three times as many refugees as it did when he arrived.
Mr. Shipman quickly spotted a shortage of interpreters for a population ever more ethnically diverse. He commissioned a study that found language barriers ''quite troubling.'' The rescue group then used it to win a private grant to start an interpreting service. It now operates in 14 languages, including Kirundi (Burundi), Tigrinya (Ethiopia) and Hakka (China).
As the recession took hold, Mr. Shipman led a charge to prevent homelessness among newly arrived refugees. In part at his prompting, the federal government let Arizona shift some federal money into rent relief and urged other states to follow.
That benefited Harith Khalid Aziz, an Iraqi refugee with a master's degree, who was earning little as a part-time clerk in a grocery. With a wife and a young son, he said it was ''a horrible feeling'' to fear eviction.
A few months' aid sustained him until he found a better job. In Arizona, even ''if you are not from the same race, they welcome you,'' he said. ''The U.S. is built on this.''
Last year, the federal government admitted about 75,000 refugees, out of 10.5 million worldwide, and it covers most resettlement costs. State officials administer the money and help decide how many refugees they can take; private agencies do the casework, helping find housing and jobs.
The Biltmore not only hired refugees but donated used furniture to them. The private Tesseract School (tuition: $19,000 a year), established a scholarship just for refugees. When the rescue group encouraged clients to farm, Hickman's Eggs donated 60 tons of chicken manure.
Hai Doo, the laundry worker from the former Burma, thought the home ownership program was too good to be true. Matching grants converted his $5,000 in savings into a $24,000 down payment on a house. Most of the money came from the Federal Home Loan Bank of San Francisco, which is required to spend some of its profits on housing aid.
''I never thought I would get help like this,'' he said.
The flip side of the Arizona story includes the Maricopa County sheriff, Joe Arpaio, who courts a national following by advertising his toughness toward illegal immigrants. (''The rumor is I could run for president,'' he said in a recent interview.)
Mr. Arpaio conducts frequent raids on immigrant neighborhoods, stopping people for minor infractions and reviewing their immigration status. He says these raids have netted hundreds of illegal immigrants. Critics say they spread fear and harass legal residents.
Victor Acevedo, an illegal immigrant from Mexico, said he was stopped in January after failing to use his turn signal and was found with a small amount of marijuana. He is now awaiting deportation in one of Mr. Arpaio's famed prison tents, dressed in the standard outfit: black stripes and pink underwear.
In a tent-side interview in 107-degree heat, Mr. Acevedo, 29, said he came nine years ago for a ''better livelihood,'' found a landscaping job, married an American and had two American-born sons. He was deported in 2008 but returned a year later to be with his family.
''We're here illegally, but we're still human beings,'' he said.
Refugees seem slow to sympathize. The two groups often compete for jobs or housing, and some refugees say Latino gangs have preyed on them.
The United States ''stands for law and order,'' said Wissam Salman, 35, a hotel housekeeper from Iraq. ''If they don't look for these people it will be a disaster.''
Ibrahim Swara-Dahab, the Sudanese goat farmer, agrees.
''I have some problems with the Mexican people; they stole my goats,'' he said. ''If they don't have documents, they should go back to their country.''
Mr. Swara-Dahab acknowledged that he, too, crossed a border illegally when he fled to Kenya but called that a matter of life and death. ''Here, the situation is different,'' he said. ''You need documents.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Victor Acevedo migrated illegally to Arizona and is now awaiting deportation back to Mexico. Through a new law that gained widespread attention this year, the state is known for being particularly tough on illegal immigrants.
Hai Doo, right, a refugee from Myanmar shown with his family, bought his house in Phoenix with the help of large grants. Arizona accepts more refugees per capita than almost any other state and treats them well.
Refugees learned how to commute on buses in Phoenix last month. Many programs help ease their adjustment. (A11)
State Senator Russell Pearce, being interviewed at right, is a leading critic of illegal immigration.
Ibrahim Swara-Dahab, a goat farmer from Sudan, arrived in Arizona as a refugee and is thriving in a slaughterhouse there. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12) MAP: Finding Sanctuary in the Sun: Arizona has taken more refugees -- legal immigrants who have fled war and persecution and passed a federal review -- than all but three other states over the past six years. (Source: Department of State
Arizona Department of Economic Security
 Census Bureau) (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (92%); IMMIGRATION (90%); REFUGEES (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (78%); RACIAL PROFILING (77%); HOSPITALS (75%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (75%); MAMMALS (75%); GOAT FARMING (75%); RACE & RACISM (73%); LITIGATION (73%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (71%); SHEEP & GOAT FARMING (70%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (66%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (66%); LEGISLATION (66%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (65%); FOREIGN POLICY (60%); MICROFINANCE (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (91%) ARIZONA, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (92%); BHUTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2010



217 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 359 words

HEADLINE: Europeans Recommend Bonus Rules For Bankers

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER

 BODY:
LONDON -- Bankers should not receive more than half of their bonuses in cash and as much as 60 percent of the payment should be deferred depending on their position at the bank, according to European draft guidelines published Friday. 
The proposals add more detail to a set of principles European regulators drafted in April 2009, after widespread criticism that some pay practices encouraged reckless risk-taking and contributed to the financial crisis.
The guidelines, which were published at the end of a two-day meeting in London of regulators and central bankers of European Union member states, are open to a one-month consultation process. The final rules are scheduled to take effect in January.
Some executives at banks in Europe had voiced concern that regulators would establish stringent limits on pay that would make it harder to compete outside of the region. Angela Knight, chief executive of the British Bankers' Association, called on the European Union to first seek an agreement on rules with the United States and Asia.
''We need to look across the Atlantic to the U.S., and east toward Asia, to ensure changes are imposed sensibly everywhere,'' Ms. Knight said in a statement.
''If they do not, then the result will be significant difficulties for businesses in Europe and for the many hundreds of thousands of jobs that depend on financial services industry,'' she said.
As part of the guidelines, bankers would receive ''at least 50 percent of any variable remuneration'' in ''equity-linked instruments'' and the ''50 percent minimum threshold for instruments must be applied equally to the nondeferred and the deferred part.'' According to the draft guidelines, bankers would thus get at least half of each of their deferred and nondeferred bonuses paid in stock.
The guidelines, published by the Committee of European Banking Supervisors, also suggest that 40 to 60 percent of the bonus be deferred, depending on the employee's effect on the ''risk profile of the institution.''
The guidelines also state that financial institutions should be prevented from setting up offshore subsidiaries where they could move employees to avoid the rules.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); EXECUTIVES (69%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (83%); BRITISH BANKERS' ASSOCIATION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (73%) EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (87%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2010



218 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; EXHIBITION REVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1537 words

HEADLINE: An Unseen Evil Still Ensnaring Countless Souls

BYLINE: By EDWARD ROTHSTEIN

 BODY:
CINCINNATI -- Peer through a circular hole into one of the displays in the permanent exhibition ''Invisible: Slavery Today,'' opening on Saturday at the National Underground Railroad Freedom Center here, and you see a tawdry room the size of a closet. On the floor a stained mattress is scrawled with the words: ''At sixteen, her new 'life' had begun.'' The irony stings. Around the portal's opening, a seemingly handwritten account tells of Margo's abusive father, the promises of escape offered by Lenny and her delivery into sexual slavery.
A few steps away is another sparely told tale: Karin, a young mother of two in Sri Lanka, is lured by the promise of a waitress job in Singapore. Lift the heavy drapery covering an opening and you gasp at the display's brute theatricality, offering a glimpse of her fate. A light suddenly comes on, casting shadows on a hanging sheet: hands reach out to grasp a woman's silhouette. 
There are no explicit images here, only the suggestion of something horrifyingly entrapping. It is a bit like the battered metallic case with a hole cut in its top, in another display. No sex, but force: Mariano is smuggled into the United States to support his Guatemalan family. Cesar promises him room and board but instead turns him into a prisoner, forcing him to pay back his increasing debts by picking tomatoes; he finally escapes by cutting through a truck's roof. (The account appeared in Gourmet magazine.)
And here too are other displays: a photograph of an Indian kiln, loose bricks lying about, where a 7-year-old, Kumar, was beaten if he tried to escape, and a fishing boat off Ghana's coast on which James Kofi Annan labored from the age of 6 with other children, force-fed amphetamines to work nonstop.
''At the end of the season,'' we read, ''many were shot and thrown overboard.''
There is no end to the audacity of human cruelty, and no political boundaries contain its gluttony. This 4,000-square-foot exhibition is modest in size, and in many ways significantly flawed, but theatricality is one of its strengths. These are true stories (some with names changed) drawn from aid organizations and an annual report released by the State Department. The Web sites of these groups, like the International Justice Mission (www.ijm.org) and Free the Slaves (www.freetheslaves.net), all have such anecdotes, as well as stories of triumphant release.
But at first, we are submerged. We enter a dim warehouse, stacked with crates stamped ''child soldier,'' ''domestic servant,'' ''sex slave.'' We pass by a line of symbolic figures, people as conglomerations of detritus and tools -- bricks, mops, shovels -- representing contemporary slaves. Not the human comedy, but the human commodity.
And on the walls and crates are statistics by analysts who guess at the extent of this dark underground: 12 million to 27 million slaves now being held around the globe. Yes, we recall reading about them, shut in locked cellars in New York or along our Southern border, where illegal immigrants are kept in penury, or more extensively in Southeast Asia and Eastern Europe, wherever desperation leads to hope of a better life.
This show about contemporary slavery, designed by Touch Worldwide in Seattle, is the first extended reshaping of the Freedom Center's exhibition narrative since the museum opened to a mixed reception in 2004. It is also the first one fully reflecting the approach of its young curator, Dina A. Bailey. What is strange, given that the rest of this 158,000-square-foot museum is devoted to American slavery, is that it is also among the most viscerally affecting displays here. It is meant as a kind of corrective, an attempt to shift course.
Beginning under the direction of Spencer R. Crew, this $110 million museum aimed not to dramatize the nature of African slavery, but to celebrate those who escaped and those who assisted them. The Freedom Center, its early leaders explained, would promote tolerance and encourage activism across the globe. It was meant to be inspiring and all-embracing, but its galleries were given portentous titles: ''Pavilion of Perseverance,'' ''Pavilion of Cooperation.''
Its most moving object is a two-story-high log house used by a slave trader in Germantown, Ky., to store his human merchandise. It was transported here, accompanied by a detailed roster of the chattel it once held. But the museum's overall effect is uneven, uncertain. It erupts into fictionalized dramas or fanciful films, but its most substantive exhibition, an extensive history of United States slavery, anxiously crams in material as if making up for lost opportunities elsewhere in the cavernous building. And, intent on a broader political mission, that history devotes unusual attention to women's suffrage and the treatment of American Indians.
As a whole the museum seemed, when I visited it in 2004, a reflection of a pop political sensibility. Instead of using the history to strengthen a sense of shared identity or to encourage righteous anger or to illuminate principles, the museum generalized it into a kind of bland therapeutic activism, until the historical specifics dissolved. Its final exhibition space featured video screens showing examples of world hunger, illiteracy, tyranny and racism, urging political action.
This approach may have been one reason many in Cincinnati, across the political spectrum, have been dissatisfied. A 2008 editorial in The Cincinnati Enquirer said: ''The Center has failed to articulate its role in the intellectual, cultural and political life of this region.'' Early optimism about attendance and income proved incorrect; annual visitors now number 130,000, about half of what was imagined.
The new exhibition doesn't abandon the museum's approach, but it is a vast improvement, expanding the slavery theme and pointing the way to a more modest social mission. Though much more could have been done, we get a sense of how contemporary slavery differs from what had come before. While slavery had always been about human property -- whether taken in conquest or purchased in vast commercial networks -- it was, until recently, out in the open, part of the social and legal structure of nearly every society. American slavery was a special case: by surviving the Enlightenment, it was exposed in all its venality.
But contemporary slavery is something else. It is hidden. And the victims are not institutionalized property but anonymous prisoners. In addition, while slaves once had significant economic value -- in the mid-19th-century South, a slave could be worth the modern equivalent of $35,000 -- now they are disposable, resembling, as the author Kevin Bales points out, ''cheap plastic ballpoint pens.''
In this subterranean realm, we are told, it is ''difficult to say'' how many slaves exist. But the exhibition argues that ''more people are illegally trapped in various forms of slavery today than ever before.'' How, though, is that estimated, particularly when definitions of contemporary slavery are so porous? Dickens's novels offer scores of indentured, bent, beaten-down figures who might now be miscategorized as slaves.
''Is prostitution slavery?'' the exhibition asks, for example. ''One side argues that all prostitution is -- or should be -- treated as slavery, and that most women are coerced into prostitution through physical and psychological duress or out of desperate economic emergency.'' There are also, we read, widely opposing perspectives. The show, at any rate, leaves little doubt in the examples offered, but the sources seem to require careful scrutiny.
Since the museum's impulse is not merely to inform, but also to inspire action, there are times when its advocacy can seem unnecessarily forced. We are asked to accept that the danger of slavery is personal. ''How could YOU become enslaved?'' reads the bottom of what the show calls a ''Wheel of Misfortune.'' Spin it and it might land on ''fraud,'' ''debt'' or ''abduction.'' But is it really the case that such things readily lead to enslavement? Or create a universal risk? Is this personalization even necessary?
Activist ambitions fully come into play in the final gallery, where we are urged to become ''modern-day abolitionists.'' Each panel is filled with suggestions: become active in an organization that fights slavery; ''Host a World Day of Social Justice event''; ''Hold community meetings''; seek out ''products that are certified as fair trade.''
Is this really the contemporary Underground Railroad? Law enforcement, social reform, fighting corruption: these would seem to be the most important aspects of any contemporary abolition movement. So is the kind of attention given by the State Department and the United Nations. And biographical panels tell of the organizations that have contributed to the exhibition, whose triumphs are palpable.
Everything else seems to emphasize virtuous feelings rather than real successes, promoting activism over understanding history. That still is one of the museum's weaknesses as well, but now it can be sensed amid growing strengths.
''Invisible: Slavery Today'' opens on Saturday at the National Underground Railroad Freedom Center, 50 East Freedom Way, Cincinnati; freedomcenter.org.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: One of the displays in the new permanent exhibition.
 A mannequin depicting a woman caught in sex slavery. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARK LYONS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SLAVERY (90%); ENTRAPMENT (76%); ANNUAL REPORTS (70%); CHILD SOLDIERS (62%); CHILDREN (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (74%) OHIO, USA (74%) SRI LANKA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GHANA (73%); SINGAPORE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2010



219 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 612 words

PERSON: William M. Birenbaum 

HEADLINE: William M. Birenbaum, 87, College Leader

BYLINE: By MARGALIT FOX

 BODY:
William M. Birenbaum, a nationally known university administrator who helped rescue Antioch College from looming insolvency during his tenure as president there in the 1970s and '80s, died on Monday at his home in Brooklyn. He was 87 and also had a home in Wellfleet, Mass.
The apparent cause was heart failure, his family said. 
A champion of innovative, sometimes unorthodox approaches to higher education, Dr. Birenbaum was president of Antioch from 1976 until his retirement in 1985. He previously had a prominent career in New York, serving as a dean of the New School for Social Research, a provost of Long Island University and the president of Staten Island Community College.
Dr. Birenbaum went to Antioch with a mandate to streamline the finances of the college, then on the verge of bankruptcy. The college, which had opened its doors in 1853, was renowned as one of the nation's most prestigious, and unorthodox, liberal arts colleges, offering an extensive work-study program and establishing a network of satellite campuses around the country.
But by the mid-1970s, those satellite units -- more than 30 in all -- were exerting economic drag on the main campus, in Yellow Springs, Ohio. Deeply in debt, Antioch risked closing.
Under Dr. Birenbaum's stewardship, the college cut the number of satellites to fewer than 10, instituted stringent austerity measures and, in the late 1970s, was reincorporated as Antioch University. In 1980, The New York Times reported that the university ''appears to be on the road to recovery.''
At L.I.U., Dr. Birenbaum had made headlines in 1967, when he was forced to resign as vice president and provost of the university's Brooklyn Center.
Dr. Birenbaum, who had joined the L.I.U. administration in 1964, was on the losing end of a highly public battle with the university's chancellor, R. Gordon Hoxie, who was widely described as an educational traditionalist.
According to news reports, the two men had reached an impasse on several crucial issues, including tuition, which Dr. Birenbaum favored freezing and Dr. Hoxie favored increasing.
After Dr. Hoxie called for and received Dr. Birenbaum's resignation in March 1967, a crowd of about 1,500 angry students surrounded him, demanding Dr. Birenbaum's reinstatement. (That did not occur, although Dr. Hoxie himself resigned the next year.)
After leaving L.I.U., Dr. Birenbaum was the president of Staten Island Community College from 1968 to 1976.
William Marvin Birenbaum was born on July 18, 1923, in Macomb, Ill., and reared in Waterloo, Iowa. His studies at Iowa State Teachers College were interrupted by service with the Army Air Forces in World War II; after the war, he earned a doctor of law degree from the University of Chicago.
Dr. Birenbaum held administrative posts at the University of Chicago and Wayne State University before joining the New School in 1961.
He was the author of two books, ''Overlive: Power, Poverty, and the University'' (Delacorte, 1969) and ''Something for Everybody Is Not Enough: An Educator's Search for His Education'' (Random House, 1971).
Dr. Birenbaum is survived by his wife, the former Helen Bloch, whom he married in 1951; a brother, Morey; a sister, Judy McNulty; a son, Charles; a daughter, Lauren Gates; and four grandchildren. Another daughter, Susan Birenbaum, died in 2008.
In 2008, troubled by renewed financial difficulties, Antioch University closed Antioch College, the original Yellow Springs campus. Today, the university comprises five campuses throughout the country.
Last year, Antioch College was bought by a group of its alumni. Plans are under way to reopen the college as an independent undergraduate institution in 2011.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: William M. Birenbaum when he was president of Staten Island Community College. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC CATO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (91%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); RESIGNATIONS (76%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (65%); WORLD WAR II (62%); ARMED FORCES (60%); AIR FORCES (60%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (64%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); IOWA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (64%) UNITED STATES (94%)

CATEGORY: Education and Schools

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2010



220 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1160 words

HEADLINE: Public Jobs Drop Amid Slowdown In Private Hiring

BYLINE: By CATHERINE RAMPELL; Michael Powell, Christine Hauser and Sewell Chan contributed reporting.

 BODY:
In the one-two punch long feared by many economists, hiring by businesses has slowed while government jobs are disappearing at a record pace.
Companies added just 64,000 jobs last month, a slowdown from 93,000 jobs in August and 117,000 in July, the Labor Department reported Friday. But over all, the economy lost 95,000 nonfarm jobs in September, the result of a 159,000 decline in government jobs at all levels. Local governments in particular cut workers at the fastest rate in almost 30 years.
''We need to wake up to the fact that the end of the stimulus has really hit hard on local governments,'' said Andrew Stettner, deputy director of the National Employment Law Project. ''There is much more of a slide in the job market than what we really need to clearly turn around.''
With the waning of the $787 billion Recovery Act passed in 2009 and credited with increasing employment by millions of jobs, finding new policies potent enough to speed up the recovery has proved difficult. 
President Obama has repeatedly called for additional measures like infrastructure projects and tax incentives, which have been met with opposition from Republicans over deficit concerns. The word ''stimulus'' itself seems to have become politically toxic in the lead-up to the midterm Congressional elections next month.
Central banks around the world are also confronting contentious choices about whether to use unconventional monetary policy measures to reignite growth.
This latest United States jobs report, the last before the November elections, seems certain to put more pressure on the Federal Reserve to help support economic growth as the federal government's stimulus fades away. Perhaps because so many investors and analysts now see additional Fed action as a fait accompli, major stock market indexes rose on Friday, with the Dow Jones industrial average topping 11,000 for the first time since May.
Friday's jobs report led to discouraging forecasts for the rest of the year, given the slowdown in both job and output growth in recent months. Private payrolls have been growing throughout this year, but at a rate too sluggish even to keep up with people entering the work force, much less make a dent in the numbers of unemployed. The nation's unemployment rate stayed flat in September, at 9.6 percent.
Of particular concern is the fact that the length of the workweek has barely budged in six months and the number of people working part time because they cannot find full-time work continues to climb. If employers are not giving more work to existing employees, economists worry, it may be some time before they can justify additional hiring.
''We're looking for companies to get more confident in the pace of recovery and start to hire around 150,000 jobs a month, which is what we need just to keep the unemployment rate flat,'' said John Ryding, chief economist at RDQ Economics. ''But I just don't see that happening between now and the end of the year.''
Flat hourly wages, now at an average of $22.67, also threaten what fragile confidence American families may have in their household budgets.
''The gain by private-sector payrolls -- what was disappointing was the deeper-than-expected decline,'' said John Lonski, chief economist for Moody's Capital Markets. ''When you combine that with no change in hourly wage and no change in weekly earnings, this report signals a softening of employment income that will adversely affect the outlook for consumer spending.''
Among the biggest gainers were food services and drinking establishments, which added 33,900 jobs in September, and health care, which added 23,900 jobs.
Government jobs have been disappearing the last few months as the census winds down. Last month, 77,000 Census Bureau employees were let go. But local governments cut 76,000 positions as well. State governments shed 7,000 workers.
Most of the state and local reductions were in education, as staff members were laid off and not recalled at the beginning of the school year. Including private school positions, 72,700 education jobs were eliminated on a seasonally adjusted basis in September.
While the bulk of the education cuts may be over for the year, some worry that another layer of government jobs may follow. Congress interrupted its August recess to pass a $26 billion package aiding school districts and states.
''We need to continue to explore ways that we can help states and local governments maintain workers who provide vital services,'' President Obama said in Bladensburg, Md., on Friday. ''At the same time, we have to keep doing everything we can to accelerate this recovery.''
Congress has been stuck in a partisan stalemate ahead of the November elections. Asked what kinds of policies Congress should consider to bolster job creation, Representative Carolyn B. Maloney, the New York Democrat who leads Congress's Joint Economic Committee, said, ''What's important now is to get Democrats re-elected.''
She said that beyond that, passing another extension of unemployment benefits and ''getting clarity on the Bush tax cuts'' were priorities.
While the president refrained from discussing the Federal Reserve, Christina Romer, the former chairwoman of his Council of Economic Advisers, said policy makers should be firing on all cylinders.
''We still are in the middle of the crisis, and absolutely, the economy needs more help, both monetary and fiscal, to try to get this unemployment rate down,'' Ms. Romer said at a Washington forum on global fiscal policy sponsored by the International Monetary Fund and the BBC.
Federal Reserve officials have hinted that they may undertake more unconventional monetary policy measures to try to encourage hiring and ward off deflation. Markets seemed to have already priced in the belief that the Fed will expand its balance sheet to push more money into the system, said Prajakta Bhide, a research analyst at Roubini Global Economics. With interest rates near zero, the expectation is that the Fed will buy long-term bonds, which would cause bond prices to rise and rates to fall. Lower long-term rates would make it more likely that consumers and businesses would spend.
For the 14.8 million people out of work, the picture is not brightening. The average duration of unemployment continues to hover at record highs. In September, the typical unemployed worker had been searching for a job for 33.3 weeks.
''I have been unemployed for almost two years,'' said Mary Carter, 38, of Coolidge, Ariz. She used to work for a fencing contractor before the housing market collapsed. ''I put in for jobs, no one calls. I put in for more, no one calls.''
Her partner, Antonio Garcia, who is a certified electrician, recently found a part-time job in a market after eight months of unemployment. He is paid minimum wage for 20 hours a week. ''I was making $14 and now I'm making $7 an hour,'' he says, holding a plastic bag of cans from a local food pantry. ''They've just stopped building.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A woman outside of a job fair in Los Angeles. The typical unemployed worker has been searching for a job for 33.3 weeks. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUCY NICHOLSON/REUTERS) (A3) CHARTS: The Labor Picture in September (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); WORK WEEK (75%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (72%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%); TAX LAW (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); TAX INCENTIVES (66%); MONETARY POLICY (65%); INFRASTRUCTURE (54%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2010



221 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 863 words

HEADLINE: Faith in Fed Pushes Dow Past 11,000

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

 BODY:
If the economy is looking down, why is the stock market looking up?
The Dow Jones industrial average closed just above 11,000 on Friday -- a first since the market's mini-crash last May -- despite more glum economic news. A disappointing monthly unemployment report renewed doubt over the wavering recovery.
The apparent disconnect between the upbeat stock market and downbeat economy reflects what is now conventional wisdom in financial circles: federal policy makers are all but certain to take new steps to bolster growth. For many, the latest jobs report -- a dispiriting 95,000 jobs were lost in September -- only seemed to confirm that Washington will act, and soon. 
The question lingering, however, is whether policy makers can do enough to keep the recovery -- and the market -- going. After rising 57.90 points, to 11,006.48 on Friday, the Dow is up 5.5 percent so far this year.
''I am a little surprised,'' Keith B. Hembre, the chief economist and chief investment strategist at First American Funds, said of Friday's rally. He watched the Dow break 11,000 with ''disbelief,'' he said.
The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 7.09 points, or 0.61 percent, to 1,165.15, while the Nasdaq composite index was up 18.24 points, or 0.77 percent, to 2,401.91.
The Dow at 11,000 is nothing new. The index first eclipsed that back in 1999, during the dot-com bubble, and has crossed back and forth several times since, most recently in May. The Dow is still well off its 2007 high of more than 14,000, before the financial crisis.
After fluctuating for the first hour or so of trading Friday, stocks rose as investors concluded that the September jobs report would prompt the Federal Reserve to take action. The consensus on Wall Street is that the Fed will undertake a new round of what is known as quantitative easing. Having reduced official interest rates to near zero, the Fed, the thinking goes, will buy bonds in the open market to ease market rates further still.
Yet with the quarterly reporting season now under way, one risk is that corporate earnings could fall short of expectations, endangering the rally even if the Fed acts. The share price of Alcoa rose almost 6 percent on Friday after the company, a maker of aluminum, reported quarterly results that topped expectations.
Alan M. Gayle, senior investment strategist for RidgeWorth Capital Management, said: ''The market becomes its own beast and gets a head of steam, and it is able to move up and down in defiance of what would appear to be reasonable logic.'' He said he wondered if the market could push higher.
''There can be a disconnect for short periods of time between the market's own energy and fundamentals,'' Mr. Gayle said. ''So this is one of those times.''
Indeed, the dollar weakened against major currencies on Friday and yields on Treasury debt sank to record lows amid speculation that the Fed would buy securities to stimulate the economy. Commodity prices surged.
Two-year Treasury yields fell to 0.35 percent, while five-year yields dropped to 1.07 percent -- both record lows.
Many market participants played down the 11,000-point milestone, dismissing it as little more than a headline-grabbing number. For days, as the Dow flirted with that figure, CNBC and other news outlets had delivered a steady stream of will-it-or-won't-it coverage.
''I think it is just human nature to get excited about big round numbers,'' said Jeffrey A. Hirsch, the editor-in-chief of the Stock Trader's Almanac. ''But round numbers with respect to the stock market are less important statistically, but important psychologically. Sometimes they line up with technical support.''
Few analysts saw the mark as the start of a bull market.
Robert S. Tipp, a managing director and chief investment strategist for Prudential Fixed Income, cautioned against reading too much into the day's news for the Dow.
''The market looks undervalued, and I would expect to see resistance levels taken out,'' he said. ''The market will fluctuate above and below and ultimately overcome those resistance levels.''
''What we are seeing is the prospect of the asset purchases from the Fed is putting downward pressure on the dollar, and very steady downward pressure on interest rates particularly on the first 10 years of the Treasury curve,'' Mr. Tipp said.
Jeffrey Yale Rubin, the director of research for Birinyi Associates, said: ''It is like any other numbers that could flash across a screen.''
''In all honesty, we have tested those in the past, when you cross these round numbers,'' he said. ''And historically the market does no better.''
But some said that the 11,000 mark had now set a new level around which investors would operate, even if it was still below the levels of before the financial crisis. Mr. Hirsch said the move above 11,000 ''brings 14,000 back into play for next year.''
Others said that while the economy and corporate profits might not justify the stock market rally, they were reluctant to start selling just yet.
''In terms of our portfolios, we started to make some changes, but it is hard to fight the tape when it is moving up,'' Mr. Hembre said. ''You risk being too early to jump off the train.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Traders at the New York Stock Exchange on Friday. The Dow was last above 11,000 in May. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD DREW/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B7) CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (87%); LAYOFFS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BONDS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); INTEREST RATES (60%)

COMPANY: RIDGEWORTH CAPITAL MANAGEMENT INC (51%); ALCOA INC (51%)

TICKER: AAI (ASX) (51%); AA (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (51%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2010



222 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 775 words

HEADLINE: Policy At Its Worst

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
We can go to war in Iraq and Afghanistan, and threaten to blow Iran off the face of the planet. We can conduct a nonstop campaign of drone and helicopter attacks in Pakistan and run a network of secret prisons around the world. We are the mightiest nation mankind has ever seen.
But we can't seem to build a railroad tunnel to carry commuters between New Jersey and New York. 
The United States is not just losing its capacity to do great things. It's losing its soul. It's speeding down an increasingly rubble-strewn path to a region where being second rate is good enough.
The railroad tunnel was the kind of infrastructure project that used to get done in the United States almost as a matter of routine. It was a big and expensive project, but the payoff would have been huge. It would have reduced congestion and pollution in the New York-New Jersey corridor. It would have generated economic activity and put thousands of people to work. It would have enabled twice as many passengers to ride the trains on that heavily traveled route between the two states.
The project had been in the works for 20 years, and ground had already been broken when the governor of New Jersey, Chris Christie, rejected the project on Thursday, saying that his state could not afford its share of the costs. Extreme pressure is being exerted from federal officials and others to get Mr. Christie to change his mind, but, as of now, the project is a no-go.
This is a railroad tunnel we're talking about. We're not trying to go to the Moon. This is not the Manhattan Project. It's a railroad tunnel that's needed to take people back and forth to work and to ease the pressure on the existing tunnel, a wilting two-track facility that's about 100 years old. What is the matter with us?
The Chinese could build it. The Turks could build it. We can't build it.
One day after Governor Christie made his devastating announcement about the tunnel, the U.S. Labor Department released its latest unemployment statistics. They show that the nation remains locked in an employment crisis, unable to provide work for millions who want and need it. One of the major potential solutions to this crisis is all around us. America's infrastructure is indisputably in sorry shape, and upgrading it to meet the needs of the 21st century is far and away the best strategy for putting people back to work.
The railroad tunnel project, all set and ready to go, would have provided jobs for 6,000 construction workers, not to mention all the residual employment that accompanies such projects. What we'll get instead, if it is not built, is the increased pollution and worsening traffic jams that result when tens of thousands of commuters who would have preferred to take the train are redirected to their automobiles.
This is government policy at its pathetic worst. But it's not the first policy disaster of Mr. Christie's short tenure as governor. He blew a golden opportunity (along with $400 million in federal funds) to participate in the Obama administration's Race to the Top competition to improve the nation's public school systems. New Jersey's bid came up needlessly and embarrassingly short because of a mistake in the application and the governor's refusal to sign off on an agreement that had been reached with the teachers' union.
This failure to take part in a nationwide initiative to bolster public education comes at a time when the United States, once the world's leader in the percentage of young people with college degrees, has fallen to a humiliating 12th place among 36 developed nations.
No one can accuse the governor of New Jersey of being a visionary. But his stumbling and bumbling and his inability to chart a clear path to a better future is, frankly, just the latest example of the dismal leadership that Americans have endured for many years. Where once we were the innovators, the pathfinders, the model for the rest of the world, now we just can't seem to get it done.
We can't put the population to work, or get the kids through college, or raise the living standards of the middle class and the poor. We can't rebuild the infrastructure or curb our destructive overreliance on fossil fuels.
There have been many times when the U.S. has stunned the world with the breadth and greatness of its achievements -- the Marshall Plan, the G.I. Bill, the world's highest standard of living, the world's finest higher education system, the space program, and on and on.
Somewhere, somehow, things went haywire. The nation that built the Erie Canal and Hoover Dam and the transcontinental railroad can't even build a tunnel beneath the Hudson River from New Jersey to New York.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (89%); INFRASTRUCTURE (77%); TRAINS (76%); MASS TRANSIT CONSTRUCTION (76%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (76%); TUNNEL CONSTRUCTION (76%); HEAVY & CIVIL CONSTRUCTION (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); RAILROAD CONSTRUCTION (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); STATISTICS (69%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (67%); EMPLOYMENT (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (92%); IRAQ (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); AFGHANISTAN (90%); TURKEY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2010



223 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 487 words

HEADLINE: High Cost of Crime

BYLINE: By CHARLES M. BLOW

 BODY:
When times get hard and talk turns to spending and budgets, there is one area that gets short shrift: the cost of crime and our enormous criminal justice system. For instance, how much do you think a single murder costs society? According to researchers at Iowa State University, it is a whopping $17.25 million. 
Those researchers analyzed 2003 data from cases in Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, North Carolina, New Jersey, Ohio, Oklahoma and Texas and calculated the figure based on ''victim costs, criminal justice system costs, lost productivity estimates for both the victim and the criminal, and estimates on the public's resulting willingness to pay to prevent future violence.'' That willingness to prevent future violence includes collateral costs like expenditures for security measures, insurance and government welfare programs. It's hard to believe that they could calculate the collateral costs with any real degree of accuracy, but I understand the concept.
(They also calculated that each rape costs $448,532, each robbery $335,733, each aggravated assault $145,379 and each burglary $41,288.)
By their estimates, more than 18,000 homicides that the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recorded in 2007 alone will cost us roughly $300 billion. That's about as much as we've spent over nine years fighting the war in Afghanistan. That's more than the 2010 federal budget for the Departments of Education, Justice, Housing and Urban Development, Health and Human Services, Labor and Homeland Security combined. Does anyone else see a problem here?
Although the annual murder rate in the U.S. has fallen to historic lows, it is still at least twice as high as that of any of the other rich countries in the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, according to data from the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime. In fact, it's even higher than in countries like Rwanda, Angola and Mozambique. And there are troubling signs this year as big cities around the country -- New York, Philadelphia, Chicago, Detroit -- are seeing sharp rises in murder rates.
Our approach to this crime problem for more than two decades has been the mass incarceration of millions of Americans and the industrializing of our criminal justice system. Over the last 25 years, the prison population has quadrupled. This is a race to the bottom and a waste of human capital. A prosperous country cannot remain so by following this path.
Many crimes could have been prevented if the offenders had had the benefit of a competent educational system and a more expansive, better-financed social service system. Sure, some criminals are just bad people, but more are people who took a wrong turn, got lost and ended up on the wrong path. Those we can save.
We have a choice to make: pay a little now or a lot later. Seems like a clear choice to me. But I'm not in Washington where they view clarity as an affliction of the weak.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Still Murder Capital of the Industrialized World: Ranking of 30 high-income member-countries of OECD (Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development) by murder rate. Murder rates are from 2007 or 2008 for each country, whichever was the latest available year. (Source: United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CRIME RATES (89%); MURDER (89%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); HOMICIDE (78%); BURGLARY (78%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (78%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (76%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (74%); PRISONS (74%); ROBBERY (74%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (73%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (72%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (71%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (69%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); CITIES (64%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); UNITED NATIONS OFFICE ON DRUGS & CRIME (59%); IOWA STATE UNIVERSITY (58%); CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (92%); RWANDA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (76%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2010



224 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; PATIENT MONEY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1249 words

HEADLINE: Government Helps to Insure Children, Even Above the Poverty Line

BYLINE: By LESLEY ALDERMAN

 BODY:
THE last few years have not been easy for Dean McCrea.
In 2007, Mr. McCrea, 55, lost his wife of nearly 30 years. Then last November the company he worked for folded, and he could not afford to pay the steep Cobra premiums required to keep health insurance for him and his son, Henry, 16.
Mr. McCrea, a media producer in Portland, Ore., receives $380 a week in unemployment benefits, which barely covers his mortgage; Henry receives a small stipend from Social Security each month. ''The last years have been a constant navigation of what feels like Class 5 rapids,'' he said.
In June, Mr. McCrea's luck turned, a little. He learned about Healthy Kids, the state's health insurance program for middle-class families, and promptly enrolled his son. The program provides Henry with full health coverage, including vision and dental. The cost: $38 a month. 
''A lot of people in my circle, solid middle-class families, are struggling,'' Mr. McCrea said. ''The peace of mind that this program has supplied me is not measurable.''
Government health insurance for children is no longer available only for the poorest households. Now middle-class families like the McCreas, struggling through the recession, can benefit as well.
The Census Bureaurecently reported that the poverty rate was up, and the number of insured adults was down. But the news was brighter for children. The percentage of children under age 19 with insurance edged up to 91 percent last year, a record high, from 90.3 percent in 2008.
''To a surprising extent, the government has really stepped up to provide affordable coverage options for middle-class kids, along with their lower-income counterparts,'' said Jocelyn Guyer, co-executive director of the Center for Children and Families at Georgetown University. ''It's a success story.''
Success is not a word you often hear in concert with health insurance. But government programs like Medicaid and the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP), which blend state and federal assistance, have expanded their reach over the last several years to cover a wider swath of the population.
Children in families with incomes of up to $44,100 (for a family of four) are likely to be eligible for some kind of government health insurance. In states where the cost of living is high, the income limits are even greater. In New York State, the cutoff for a family of four is $88,200; in New Jersey, it is $77,175.
The news is good for children, but it could better. Almost 10 percent of children, or seven million of them, still do not have insurance. According to a recent report published in the journal Health Affairs, 4.7 million of those uninsured children are eligible for government coverage.
''Not enough people know about these plans,'' said Mr. McCrea, referring to Oregon's Healthy Kids program, which is part of CHIP. ''Or they think they are a hassle to join, but they're not.''
If you have a child who is not covered, or your Cobra coverage is about to expire, or you're worried that you might be laid off, government plans in your state may be helpful. Even if your family was not eligible for coverage a few years ago, you may be eligible now; household income limits have been raised, and many CHIP programs have added new ways to qualify.
Last year Oregon created an insurance exchange, Healthy Kids Connect, that offers subsidized coverage to families with incomes between 200 to 300 percent of the federal poverty limit. (Families under the 200 percent threshold receive free coverage.) This is the program that Henry McCrea joined.
''Our biggest obstacle has been to convince families that don't qualify for food stamps or other subsidies that they qualify for our program,'' said Cathy Kaufmann, administrator of the Healthy Kids program in Oregon.
And if you live in a state where insurers are rapidly dropping child-only policies, a government program could be a refuge. Some states let families with incomes above the cutoff limit enroll in CHIP plans so long as they pay full fare, without subsidies. Even though states are strapped, most are still accepting new children -- except for Arizona, which has stopped enrolling children in its CHIP program.
The simplest way to find out about the programs in your state is to go to the federal government's Web site, InsureKidsNow.gov. Here's a breakdown of what's available and how to apply.
LOW-INCOME FAMILIES Medicaid provides free, or very low cost, health coverage for people under 21 who live in families with poverty-level incomes, currently $22,050 for a family of four. The program also covers children under age 6 who live in families with incomes at or below $29,326 (133 percent of the poverty level).
Children who are covered by Medicaid receive a full range of services, including immunizations, vision and dental care. Eligibility rules vary by state.
MIDDLE-INCOME FAMILIES Created in 1997 and expanded by President Obama in 2009, CHIP provides low-cost health insurance for children in middle-class families who make too much to qualify for Medicaid. Each state designs its own plan and determines its own income requirements. In some states, coverage may be free; typically, it is subsidized.
Every state plan must provide free preventive care and immunizations to children in the program, as well as free or reduced-fee checkups, prescription medications, and dental and hospital care.
SIGNING UP To find out whether you qualify for Medicaid or CHIP, go to the map at InsureKidsNow.gov and click on your state, or call 877-543-7669.
In most states, applicants fill out just one short application to find out if they qualify for Medicaid or CHIP. Many states allow you to apply online, and some let you apply over the phone. (They then send a filled-out application for you to sign.)
After submitting your application, you should have an answer within 45 days, often much sooner, according to Cindy Mann of the federal Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services. Eleven states, including New York, also allow qualified providers to grant immediate, temporary coverage for children in both Medicaid and CHIP if they appear to be eligible.
UPPER-MIDDLE INCOME FAMILIES If your income is too high for a government plan, you should first find out whether your state's CHIP program allows families to buy in -- that is, pay the full cost without receiving a subsidy. About a dozen states have this option.
If not, a child-only policy from a private insurer might be affordable. Under the new health care law, insurers that offer child-only policies must accept every child who applies, and they cannot change rates based on a child's health.
When this part of health reform went into effect last month, many providers promptly dropped their child-only policies. Still, some insurers continue to offer this coverage, which costs an average of $1,350 a year, according to a survey by America's Health Insurance Plans, an industry trade group.
To look for a child-only policy, you can go to the government's new health insurance Web site, healthcare.gov, and enter your child's information. The site will give you a list of possible policy choices.
I plugged in Henry McCrea's age and home state and found a range of options. They included a policy that cost $24 a month but had a $10,000 deductible, and another that ran $178 a month with a $500 deductible.
You can use the site to shop for health insurance for families and adults, as well. The site also includes information on Medicaid, CHIP and government-sponsored high-risk pools.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dean McCrea found insurance for his 16-year-old son Henry through a state program in Oregon that helps not only poor but also middle-class families. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LEAH NASH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); DENTAL INSURANCE (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); CHILD POVERTY (90%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (90%); FAMILY (90%); CHILDREN (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (77%); US CONSOLIDATED OMNIBUS BUDGET RECONCILIATION ACT (77%); MEDICAID (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); FAMILY SERVICES (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (72%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (71%); COST OF LIVING (71%); POVERTY RATES (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (72%) OREGON, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2010



225 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: Once a Forgotten Recruit, Now Harvard's Captain

BYLINE: By DAVE CALDWELL

 BODY:
BOSTON -- Collin Zych, a senior free safety at Harvard, wakes up on a typical autumn Sunday feeling the aftershocks of most of the hits he made in the game the day before. He carries bumps and bruises, and his shoulders tend to ache.
''Once you get back on field for practice, it all goes away,'' he said, sounding almost cheerful about it. 
Zych (pronounced zitch), from Plano, Tex., is Harvard's 137th football captain and is considered to be an N.F.L. prospect, but he has come a long way since his senior year in high school, when he and his coach made pitches just to get Harvard to pay attention to him.
It rarely works that way, Harvard Coach Tim Murphy said. To locate candidates who are good players and who meet the university's academic requirements, Harvard sends 5,000 questionnaires to high school coaches in the United States and Canada.
''We recruit Texas hard,'' said Murphy, who has 11 players from the state on his team, including three from Plano, a Dallas suburb. ''It's a big state, or as some people down there say, a big country.''
It was not as if Zych totally eluded Harvard's attention. He heard from Harvard when he was a junior at Plano East High School, and he was so interested in attending that he took part in a football camp there before his senior year. Then it was as if Zych dropped off the radar.
No one really knows the reason. There were changes on Murphy's staff, and Zych's mother, Linda, said that the coaches might have thought that Collin, who has three siblings, did not want to attend a college that does not offer athletic scholarships.
''He really felt pretty strongly,'' his mother said. ''Harvard was a school he really enjoyed visiting.''
Zych had begun considering other Eastern programs -- Columbia, Dartmouth, Holy Cross -- but he wanted to give Harvard one more shot. He stopped by the office of Johnny Ringo, his coach at Plano East, and asked Ringo if he would try to nudge Harvard.
Ringo sent new game film of Zych to Harvard. Zych sent an e-mail to Murphy in which he said he still wanted to play for the Crimson. Once Murphy saw the film, and noticed how ferocious and heady Zych was, Harvard became quite interested.
''I let them know he was a can't-miss kid,'' Ringo said in a telephone interview. ''We tried to convince him what kind of a kid he was, what kind of character he had, what kind of academic student he was. Once we did get in touch, they were great about getting him up there.''
Ringo said he was only doing what he would do for other prospects. But Zych said emphatically that he might not have ended up at Harvard without Ringo's help.
Zych, who is studying economics, said he would like to pursue a career in finance when he stops playing football. He is not the first person to say that a Harvard education will probably open many doors. But it is interesting, to him, how far he has come.
''Truthfully, I had no idea Harvard had a legitimate football team,'' he said, smiling.
After he enrolled at Harvard as a freshman, he was given a No. 32 jersey -- a duplicate number. Because the coaches needed him in case of emergency for varsity games, he did not play a single snap for the junior varsity. But the varsity did not need him, either.
Zych started nine games as a sophomore and led the Crimson in tackles as a junior. At 5 feet 11 inches and 195 pounds, he is not particularly large for a safety, but he hits hard and is considered by his coaches and his teammates to be sound fundamentally.
''He's just extraordinarily dependable, and in a big way,'' Murphy said. ''He is always, always, where he's supposed to be when he's supposed to be there.''
Zych is amiable but somewhat stoic; he was not an automatic candidate to become Harvard's captain as a senior. Players elect the captain, and there is only one for the season -- and it is Harvard -- so the captaincy carries an enormous amount of prestige.
He was named captain after last season, in which Harvard finished 7-3 and lost in a driving rainstorm to Pennsylvania, the eventual Ivy League champion. Zych decided almost right away to take a different approach to being a captain than some of his predecessors.
It is a Harvard tradition that the captain writes a letter on Harvard stationery to each player outlining the goals of the season. Depending on the captain's personality, the tone of these letters can be very different.
''It was the most professional, well-done letter since I've been here,'' Ben Graeff, a junior defensive end, said of Zych's letter. ''There was no real big hoopla -- or cursing, which my mom appreciated. It was all business. You felt like he was addressing you personally.''
Rather than, as he said, ''trying to pump people up in a very masculine way,'' Zych wrote that the players should be thoroughly prepared heading into the season opener against Holy Cross (which Harvard won, 34-6). That they should hold one another accountable. That there be no slackers.
Graeff said the team had taken Zych's lead.
''We've had some of the best defensive practices since I've been here,'' he said. ''Collin is one of those players who's always up for practice.''
After Harvard (2-1) lost to Brown in its Ivy League opener Sept. 25, Zych noticed a change in the way that some players prepared for the next game. It was as if they had received personal wake-up calls. They responded with a 35-10 victory against Lafayette. Harvard hosts Cornell on Saturday.
Graeff has detected a change in Zych, too, saying, ''Maybe he talks a little more on the field.'' Graeff laughed, as if that were an accomplishment, but Zych really has come a long way since he walked into Johnny Ringo's office as a senior and asked for a little push.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Harvard stopped recruiting Collin Zych, until his high school coach sent in new game film. He is now the team captain. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HARVARD ATHLETIC COMMUNICATIONS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); SPORTS CAMPS & SCHOOLS (75%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (74%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (69%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (89%); DALLAS, TX, USA (72%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (89%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (89%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (76%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2010



226 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1819 words

HEADLINE: New Hope for Afghan Raisin Farmers

BYLINE: By GAYLE TZEMACH LEMMON

 BODY:
KABUL -- Raisin Producer Cooperative Center No. 2 stands alone astride the highway in Parwan Province, an hour north of Kabul. Inside the clay-colored building with a cheery yellow gate, a group of Afghan raisin farmers sits cross-legged on the tan carpet, talking about the past -- and the future.
''Before the wars, we were exporting our raisins to the U.K., to the Soviet Union, to India,'' said Haji Hamidullah, who was chosen by his fellow farmers to serve as president of the Parwan cooperative. ''It's our hope that we will again find good markets for our products on the international market.''
Next month, raisins grown in Parwan will once again land on shelves in Britain, selling in health food and fine food retailers under the Tropical Wholefoods brand thanks to an unusual alliance among Afghan farmers; Mercy Corps, an international aid organization based in Portland, Oregon; and Fullwell Mill, a British food producer. 
The venture is part of an effort to bring the practices and profits of the so-called fair-trade movement to Afghanistan, a country known more for conflicts than cooperatives. Along the way, participants also hope to build more stable and more prosperous Afghan communities by building and improving on an indigenous business that in years past was a source of local pride.
In the decades before war decimated Afghanistan's infrastructure and its land, the country produced 10 percent of the world's raisins. According to U.S. Department of Agriculture statistics, the country's raisin production peaked at 86,000 metric tons in 1981 before plunging to less than a quarter of that figure by the end of the 1980s.
Since 2001, Afghanistan has slowly climbed back into the global marketplace, with production hovering at 25,000 to 30,000 metric tons annually for the past several years. Official figures show the country exporting more than 80 percent of its dried grapes, but the sweet, seedless Afghan raisins are an easy-to-find snack in local markets and a staple of Afghan rice dishes. The country is now home to 3 percent of the world's raisin production, with the biggest producers -- the United States, Turkey, China and Iran -- now accounting for roughly three-quarters of the one million metric tons of the raisin market.
With competition stiff and Afghanistan still struggling to recover from the destruction of war, farmers like Mr. Hamidullah have struggled to sell their goods any farther away than Pakistan, leaving them at the mercy of local markets -- and local prices. So Mercy Corps, together with Fullwell Mill, set out to change that.
''We went to the farmers and we asked them, 'Do you want to export your raisins? If so, and if you try your best, we can find a good market for you,''' said Aman Taheri, program coordinator at the Kabul office of Mercy Corps. ''We told them our strategy was to increase their knowledge and their sales and to help give them linkages: the farmer to the trader to the buyer to the processor.''
The effort, which includes two months of technical training each year for the 300 Parwan farmers in the program, is part of a three-year, $2 million Mercy Corps program started in June 2008 with financing from the U.S. Agency for International Development. Along with Parwan, the Mercy Corps program operates in Kandahar Province, which is far less secure. The goal of the project, the Global Development Alliance, is to increase training, jobs and sales for Afghan participants along the grape and pomegranate production value chain. (Pomegranates have been harder to link to global markets, given security constraints in the south, where they grow in abundance, but Mercy Corps has had some success this year in helping farmers to earn more from the lucrative fruit.)
The grape-growing season lasts about six months, from spring through early autumn, with raisin drying in the Parwan region requiring four to five additional weeks. How many grapes each hectare of land yields depends to a great extent on the weather: Last year, the Parwan cooperative had a bumper crop of more than a thousand metric tons. This year, given the heavy rains, that figure could drop below 400.
Although billions of dollars have been spent on development programs in Afghanistan since 2002, few have had such a direct link to international markets. And judging from the challenges Mercy Corps and Fullwell Mill have faced since starting the program in Parwan, it is not difficult to see why the program is such a rarity.
Mercy Corps first reached out to Fullwell Mill in 2006 to study the possibility of producing organic raisins in Kandahar. The two organizations decided to collaborate several years later after agreeing that together they could overcome the myriad obstacles necessary to turn the far-fetched idea of Parwan fair-trade raisins into reality.
The first issue Fullwell Mill faced was persuading the Fairtrade Labeling Organizations International, or FLO, and its certifying body, FLO-CERT, to consider allowing raisins grown in Parwan to carry the Fairtrade label, a logo that signifies to consumers that growers have received a fair price and that a portion of their profits will be used to further economic development.
As part of the labeling process, FLO-CERT auditors visit producers to verify that they meet the group's stringent environmental, labor and organizational standards. In the case of the Parwan raisin cooperative, however, FLO had no ability to verify facts on the ground and did not want to risk the danger of sending its staff to Afghanistan, no matter how secure Parwan itself might be.
After months of talks with Fullwell Mill, a solution was found in which Mercy Corps provided FLO-CERT with pages of documents regarding the cooperative's ability to meet Fairtrade requirements. For now, the Parwan raisins will be available only in Britain, the largest global Fairtrade market, though the process may serve as a pilot for bringing Fairtrade to other conflict areas.
From the view of the fair-trade representatives, the decision to allow the Parwan raisins project to proceed under their label presented formidable business risks.
''We would all recognize that actually these are the sorts of groups we want to be working with,'' said Chris Davis, who manages producer partnerships at the Fairtrade Foundation. ''The debate was around whether, by coming up with a new way of working with this group, could that, if anything goes wrong, potentially bring the fair-trade movement into disrepute? Do we run the risk of undermining the benefits that we can provide to other farmers and workers around the world?''
In the end, the foundation decided that by being open with consumers about the unusual certification process, it could indeed give the raisins the Fairtrade seal.
Then there was the challenge of getting farmers to embrace new farming techniques and standards so that their products could be competitive overseas. And convincing them that if they did so, they could indeed trust the foreigners who promised to come back at harvest time to buy their products.
''We are trying to put a bit of institution in there so that from this very cowboy Wild West, we get a situation where there are rights and responsibilities within the supply chain,'' said Richard Friend, co-founder of Fullwell Mill, which also works with almond growers in northwestern Pakistan to supply almonds to Ben & Jerry's, the ice cream maker. ''The farmers are guaranteed a whole series of things like reasonable quotas of what we are willing to buy from them, and they know in advance there are guaranteed prices and a guaranteed premium on Fairtrade certified product. Concomitantly, there are a series of things they have to give.''
Those things include being trained in and adopting certain modern techniques, like mat-based drying of the grapes. Traditionally, the farmers had let their grapes dry on the ground and then sold them to the first bidder so that they would not be left with perishable products on their hands. Mr. Taheri, the Mercy Corps program coordinator, and his colleagues told farmers that they simply had to dry their grapes on the new mats made of river reeds because they produced cleaner and plumper raisins for the international market.
Fullwell Mill's pledge to buy 7 kilograms, or about 15.5 pounds, of raisins for 350 afghanis, or about $8, rather than the going market rate of 7 kilograms for 200 afghanis, added a strong financial incentive.
For their part, the farmers at the center of the program say that all the education has been a boon to their production and to their families. Now that they know they can trust the Fullwell Mill team to deliver on its promises, they hope that this is just the beginning of the collaboration. From the 35 farmers who initially agreed to try the new mats, more than 200 have signed on this year.
''We want to find many more foreign markets -- this is our hope,'' Mr. Hamidullah said, proudly showing visitors row upon row of his ripening grapes a few minutes after urging his Mercy Corps trainers to extend the program past its current end date of May 2011. ''When we get such good benefits from our products, we can improve our whole lives: our homes, our machinery, our education.''
And for Fullwell Mill, the unusual partnership with Mercy Corps and the Parwan Raisin Producer Association has translated into a strategic business opportunity for a niche company operating in a field of far larger players. The first Afghan raisin shipment of 35 metric tons arrived in late August after months of transit to London. While the amount is only a tiny fraction of the 340,000 metric tons of raisins imported last year by the 27 nations of the European Union, Fullwell Mill sees the program as a robust start that promises great potential for future expansion -- so long as British buyers are interested.
''I see opportunity where a lot of other people see risks,'' said Adam Brett, Fullwell Mill's director. ''Going into Afghanistan will give us a really exciting unique product that the largest customers will be curious about and want to have, which will give them an edge. If we are lucky, Afghanistan moves toward stability and then it can become a real powerhouse for trade.''
Already, customers like Community Foods, a British supplier of natural and organic dried food that purchased Afghan dried fruits in the 1970s, have pledged to buy the Parwan Fairtrade raisins this year and next.
''It is going to be seen as a bonus that the raisins come from Afghanistan,'' said Paul Moore, Community Foods' marketing director. ''I think the British public realize that we are there because forces have been sent their by their government, and any project that involves bringing people together will be viewed as positive. A country like that, that has been at war for 30 years, if you can bring calm and happiness to a few families' lives and that can grow, why wouldn't you want to do that?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Afghan farmers survey the drying of their raisin crop. Afghan raisins will begin appearing on British store shelves next month. (B1)
 Raisins headed for market in Afghanistan, which once produced 10 percent of the world's crop. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOAO SILVA FOR THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRAPE VINEYARDS (90%); DEHYDRATED FOOD MFG (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); AGRICULTURE (77%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (72%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); FOOD INDUSTRY (69%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); FOOD & BEVERAGE STORES (69%); GOURMET FOOD STORES (69%); RETAILERS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: MERCY CORPS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (90%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (75%) OREGON, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (98%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); INDIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); PAKISTAN (79%); CHINA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2010



227 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 604 words

HEADLINE: Mr. Paladino and the System

 BODY:
Carl Paladino, the Republican nominee for governor of New York, portrays himself as a business-hardened outsider who would reform Albany's corrupt and bloated bureaucracy and drive out the pay-to-play special interests. ''I'm just a regular guy from Buffalo,'' he says.
A look at his record as a developer shows that he has been an eager recipient of just the sort of government largess he so bitterly condemns and a generous contributor to politicians who can best do him favors. 
His flourishing real estate business was stoked with tax breaks, multimillion-dollar state leases and government land giveaways. At the same time, he used his partnerships and corporations to donate nearly $500,000 to scores of elected officials, judges and candidates since 1999 -- a bit more than most regular guys from Buffalo.
Mr. Paladino is the largest landowner in Buffalo, and building his empire required many local zoning variances and municipal permissions. Buffalo's politicians, who received generous donations from him for years, were happy to help. Though he was an owner of several downtown parking lots, he won a seat on the city's parking board, resigning in 1994 amid charges of conflicts of interest. He still serves on the board of the nonprofit corporation that manages parking lots for the city.
Mr. Paladino's money trail and cozy relations are worth remembering when reading on his Web site this admonition to the Legislature: ''Don't let contributors and lobbyists influence your votes.'' Or when he criticizes his opponent, Andrew Cuomo, for relying on ''special interests'' and raising ''Albany insider money.'' Or judging his vow to clean up the ''rotten ruling class.''
Mr. Paladino has a thriving private-sector development business, including the construction of more than 150 Rite-Aid drugstores in western and upstate New York. But a large portion of his holdings are older buildings renovated under the state's Empire Zone program.
The zones are intended to improve distressed urban areas and stimulate employment but have become better known for their mismanagement and for rewarding cronies with tax breaks. (The program is now closed to new participants.)
He won $3 million in tax reductions for his renovations, but, as The Daily News recently reported, only 25 jobs were directly created. His campaign has said that that does not count the jobs indirectly produced by his tenants, but a large number of those tenants were state agencies, which have paid him tens of millions of dollars in rent over the years.
Many of Mr. Paladino's investments have been a boon for downtown Buffalo, Niagara Falls and other areas. Much of that could not have been done without the sort of assistance from taxpayers that he decries.
The state's economic development arm bought a long-vacant office tower in Niagara Falls for $1 million then sold it to Mr. Paladino for $10 in 2002. He renovated it, and it now contains apartments, offices and a hotel. The same goes for a vacant department store building in downtown Buffalo that Mr. Paladino bought for $1 from the city and then restored.
Albany could use more politicians with business experience and sound business sense. But when a candidate who has benefited this way vows to kill off the state Department of Economic Development, it is difficult to take his promises seriously. He accuses the Legislature of being ''bought by union campaign contributions,'' but he never mentions the huge donations that he and other business leaders have made.
After years of greasing Albany's gears -- and accepting its gifts -- it is ludicrous for him to claim to be anything but an insider.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); CORPORATE GIVING (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); ZONING (76%); PROPERTY LEASES (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (74%); CITIES (72%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (71%); PARKING LOT OPERATORS (71%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BUFFALO, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2010



228 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1029 words

HEADLINE: China Central Bank's Chief Backs Gradual Rise in Currency

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The head of China's central bank said Friday that he favored letting the Chinese currency rise in value, but only gradually, as exchange-rate tensions overshadowed an international meeting of finance ministers and central bankers.
Gathered here for the annual meetings of the International Monetary Fund, the top finance officials of Britain, France and Japan all expressed concern about rising currency tensions -- but did not adopt the urgent language the United States has used in prodding China to act. The head of the I.M.F., Dominique Strauss-Kahn, said the question was not whether, but when the Chinese currency, the renminbi, would rise in value. 
In a forum sponsored by the I.M.F. and the British Broadcasting Corporation, Zhou Xiaochuan, the governor of the People's Bank of China, said that China ''needs a market-based exchange-rate regime'' and would ''try to move the exchange rate gradually to more equilibrium.'' But the process had to occur ''in a gradual way,'' he said, ''rather than shock therapy.''
Mr. Strauss-Kahn, who has been urged by American officials to play a greater role in speaking out on the exchange-rate issue, struggled to toe a diplomatic line, encouraging China without appearing to criticize it. ''For a long time I've repeatedly said that the renminbi is undervalued,'' he said at the forum, with Mr. Zhou seated to his left, ''but the solution to this is not to expect that China will revalue its currency overnight.''
Joseph E. Stiglitz, a Columbia University economist and a former chief economist of the World Bank, cautioned that a currency revaluation alone would not do much to reduce the large American trade and current account deficits with the rest of the world. Those reductions, he said, require fundamental changes in private and public savings in the United States.
''The focus on just the exchange rate is detracting attention from much more fundamental issues,'' he said during the forum with Mr. Zhou and Mr. Strauss-Kahn.
Last year, the Group of 20 economic powers agreed on a framework for ''rebalancing'' the global economy as part of their response to the global financial crisis. Under that agreement, the United States is supposed to shift toward saving and investing more and spending and borrowing less.
Mr. Zhou said the Chinese government was committed to doing its part by encouraging growth of its service sector, which would lessen its dependence on the export-oriented manufacturing sector; by improving its health care and retirement pension systems, which would allow Chinese consumers to save less; and by spending more on rural development to lessen the economy's dependence on rapidly urbanizing coastal areas.
''The package may be the better thing to focus on,'' rather than just the currency issue, Mr. Zhou said.
But many of those structural changes will take time, while Western patience on the currency issue appears to be running thin.
In separate news briefings, officials acknowledged that the currency issue threatened to overshadow the I.M.F. annual meetings, which have tackled other themes like how to harmonize changes in international financial regulation and how rich, debt-burdened nations could cut back public spending without harming the fragile recovery. But they avoided comments that might antagonize China.
George Osborne, Britain's chancellor of the exchequer, said, ''We do need to move toward market-oriented exchange rates that reflect fundamentals,'' and added that the I.M.F. and the Group of 20 had to play a role in addressing the imbalances.
Christine Lagarde, the French finance minister, played down talk of a currency war, saying ''we want to talk about peace.'' Japan's finance minister, Yoshihiko Noda, said he expected ''steady implementation'' of China's promise in June to permit greater exchange-rate flexibility, even though the renminbi has risen only slightly in value since then.
Japan is one of several countries, like South Korea and Brazil, that has taken recent steps to halt or slow the appreciation of its currencies. Those currencies have risen in value, in part, because investors in Europe and the United States, where interest rates are extremely low and growth is sluggish, have gone overseas in search of higher yields. The result has been a surge in capital into rapidly growing economies in Asia and Latin America.
Mr. Noda said Friday that Japan's intervention was intended primarily to moderate volatility in exchange rates and not as a large-scale, permanent policy.
In an interview, the financier George Soros, who has argued that movement on China's currency is essential for avoiding a global currency conflict, said he saw merit in China's caution but noted that international pressures were mounting.
''A 20 percent or more jump in the value of the renminbi would create widespread bankruptcies in the export industry, and the objective of increasing consumption would be undermined by increasing unemployment,'' Mr. Soros said, expressing sympathy with the position of China's premier, Wen Jiabao, who warned this week that rapid appreciation of the currency would cause major social disruptions.
''On the other hand, 10 percent annual appreciation should be tolerable for the Chinese economy, and it would be a tremendous relief both for the United States, and for the other developing countries that are currently bearing the brunt of the capital flows,'' Mr. Soros said.
''It is no longer just a conflict between the United States and China,'' he said. ''The rest of the world -- Japan, Europe and the developing world -- are all up in arms.'' Mr. Soros said that China was threatened by inflation, and the United States by deflation. Rebalancing would help to reduce both threats, he said.
The currency issue increasingly looks to be the dominant theme of the Group of 20 summit meeting that President Obama and other world leaders will attend in November in Seoul, South Korea.
''Currency issues must be debated, must be discussed, must be resolved in pretty closed circles -- and sometimes, behind closed doors as well -- to be efficient,'' said Ms. Lagarde, the French finance minister.
''But that clearly has to happen,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Zhou Xiaochuan, head of the People's Bank of China, above, with Donald L. Kohn, formerly the vice chairman of the Fed, at Friday's annual meeting of the I.M.F. The financier George Soros, left, said he saw merit in China's stand on its currency. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSHUA ROBERTS/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXCHANGE RATES (91%); BANKING IN CHINA (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (72%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (67%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (62%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (61%); URBANIZATION (60%)

COMPANY: PEOPLE'S BANK OF CHINA (93%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); BRITISH BROADCASTING CORP (70%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%)

PERSON: DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (89%); GEORGE SOROS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (92%); FRANCE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2010



229 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 608 words

HEADLINE: DAYS TO ELECTION 24: From Other Side of Aisle, Endorsements for Reid

BYLINE: By ASHLEY PARKER

 BODY:
5:11 p.m. Updated Harry Reid can now boast a second Republican feather in his cap, of sorts. Less than 24-hours after earning the endorsement of Bill Raggio, a highly influential Republican and Nevada state senator, the Senate majority leader on Friday landed the support of Dema Guinn, the wife of the former governor who died unexpectedly this year.
In a statement, Mrs. Guinn described the commitment of her husband, Kenny Guinn, to education, concluding: ''That is why I am supporting Senator Harry Reid for reelection.'' 
''Senator Reid's unwavering support for vital education programs such as the Millennium Scholarship, together with his tireless efforts to create new jobs and protect Nevada businesses from the unprecedented challenges we have faced during these trying economic times earned my respect, and my vote,'' Mrs. Guinn said.
Mr. Guinn, the former Republican governor of Nevada, passed away this summer after falling from the roof of his Las Vegas home.
Mrs. Guinn discussed in her statement how her husband's unexpected death gave her greater resolve to speak out on issues she might have otherwise remained silent on, and implied that he, too, would have supported Mr. Reid's bid.
One day earlier, Mr. Reid received an unlikely - and reluctant - endorsement in a blistering statement issued by Mr. Raggio, in which he criticized Sharron Angle and supported Mr. Reid.
The statement from the veteran lawmaker assailing Ms. Angle, a fellow Republican and Tea Party favorite, and ''her extreme and often even radical ideas and positions,'' was big news in the Silver State.
''What is difficult to overlook is her record of being totally ineffective as a four-term assemblywoman, her inability or unwillingness to work with others, even within her own party, and her extreme positions on issues such as Medicare, Social Security, education, veterans affairs and many others,'' his two-page statement read. ''I am lifelong Republican and unlike Ms. Angle, I have never changed parties. I have always supported Jeffersonian principles of free enterprise, low taxes, limited government and fiscal responsibility.''
He concluded that he was ''unable to support Sharron Angle'' because ''we need someone in the U.S. Senate who can be effective, work with others, and best represent the interests of our state.''
Ms. Angle unsuccessfully tried to defeat Mr. Raggio two years ago in a bitter primary battle for state senator, and his statement acknowledges the bad blood between them but dismisses their contentious history as ''personal issues'' he was willing to put behind him. The decision to endorse Mr. Reid, he makes clear, was not an easy one.
''Having said this, I am not pleased or supportive of many of the issues which Senator Reid has supported and I have told him so,'' Mr. Raggio's statement continued. ''With that caveat, I will reluctantly vote for Senator Reid's re-election.''
Mr. Reid, who is facing a tough fight against Ms. Angle, was happy to accept the endorsement.
''I am honored to have the support of Senator Bill Raggio, a man I deeply respect not only for his commitment to public service, but his love for this state,'' Mr. Reid said in his own statement.
Mr. Raggio is not the first Republican to turn on Ms. Angle. Bob Cashell, the Republican mayor of Reno, called her an ''ultra right-winger'' who is ''just too far to the right'' for him to support.
Ms. Angle's spokesman, Jerry Stacy, dismissed Mr. Raggio's unlikely endorsement as coming from one of the ''good ol' boy career politicians [who] do not believe in Republican principles.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (69%); VETERANS (69%); JOB CREATION (69%); MEDICARE (62%)

PERSON: HARRY REID (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%) NEVADA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2010



230 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1243 words

HEADLINE: Nobel Peace Prize to Activist Poses a Challenge to China's Rejection of Democracy

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG; Jonathan Ansfield contributed reporting, and Li Bibo and Zhang Jing contributed research.

 BODY:
BEIJING -- Few nations today stand as more of a challenge to the democratic model of governance than China, where an 89-year-old Communist Party has managed to quash political movements while creating a roaring, quasi-market economy and enforcing a veneer of social stability.
With the United States' economy flagging and its global influence in decline, some Chinese leaders now appear confident in asserting that freedom of speech, multiparty elections and constitutional rights -- what some human rights advocates call universal values -- are indigenous to the West, and that is where they should stay.
The awarding of the Nobel Peace Prize to Liu Xiaobo, 54, was a sharp rejoinder to that philosophy. Of course, it was a Norwegian panel that gave him the prize, providing Chinese officials and their supporters with ample ammunition to denounce the move as another attempt by the West to impose its values on China. 
But anticipating the criticism, the judges underscored the support in China for the imprisoned Mr. Liu's work and his plight, which they said proved that the Chinese were as hungry as anyone for the political freedoms enjoyed in countries like the United States, India and Indonesia.
''The campaign to establish universal human rights also in China is being waged by many Chinese, both in China itself and abroad,'' the Norwegian Nobel Committee said. ''Through the severe punishment meted out to him, Liu has become the foremost symbol of this wide-ranging struggle for human rights in China.''
The Dalai Lama, the exiled Tibetan spiritual leader who won the prize in 1989, highlighted the grass-roots Chinese push for political reform in a statement praising Mr. Liu, saying that ''future generations of Chinese will be able to enjoy the fruits of the efforts that the current Chinese citizens are making towards responsible governance.'' Yet the Dalai Lama stands as proof that the struggle for rights in China is a hard one, and that winning the Nobel is no guarantee of achieving even minimal success.
Nevertheless, the number of signatures on Charter 08, the document that Mr. Liu co-drafted that calls for gradually increasing constitutional rights, shows that at the very least, there is an appetite in this country to openly discuss the kind of values that hard-line Communist Party leaders dismiss as a new brand of Western imperialism.
The 300 initial signatures on the document snowballed to 10,000 as it spread on the Internet, even as the government tried its best to stamp it out. Certainly many of those who signed it were intellectuals, not exactly representative of most Chinese, but China has a rich history of political reform led by its elites. Chinese lawyers, journalists, scholars, artists, policy advisers -- many among them will be heartened by the Nobel Committee's decision.
''Today, many people are making efforts,'' said Wan Yanhai, the most prominent advocate for AIDS patients in China and one of the initial signers of Charter 08; he left China temporarily for the United States in May because of what he called police harassment. ''They're hidden, but they're there,'' he said. ''People are organizing different resistance movements, sometimes in a peaceful way, sometimes in a violent manner.''
Cui Weiping, a social critic who teaches at the Beijing Film Academy, said the rights struggle was moving from a local stage to a global one. ''Like everything that happens in China today, the democracy movement here exists in a global context,'' she said. ''So this will be a lesson to China: it can't bottle up the democracy movement forever.''
The Internet, the vehicle that carried Charter 08 to prominence, simmered with Chinese support for Mr. Liu early Friday night despite extensive government filtering. Liu Xiaobo was the most common topic on Sina.com's Weibo, a popular microblog forum. Microbloggers burned with enthusiasm for the prize and hurled invective at the government: ''Political reform and the Nobel Prize, is this a new start? This day has finally come,'' wrote a user named Nan Zhimo. Another user, Hei Zechuan, said, ''The first real Chinese Nobel Prize winner has emerged, but he is still in prison right now; what a bittersweet event.''
Even before the announcement Friday afternoon, a group of supporters gathered outside the Beijing apartment building where Liu Xiaobo's wife, Liu Xia, lives. They showed little fear of the black-uniformed police officers surrounding them.
''I believe this award will massively open up room for political discussion in China,'' said one of those standing outside the building, Li Yusheng, 66, a retired journalist, Charter 08 signer and founder of a group that aims to help the poor. ''And it will exert pressure on the authorities to change their old ways, so that they will not be able to jail people like Liu Xiaobo in the future. They will have to change or else be driven out of power.''
But the authorities clung to their habits on Friday night, as police officers showed up at celebratory gatherings in Beijing and Shanghai to haul people off to police stations, according to Twitter feeds.
Some political experts here say that even China's more liberal-minded leaders have little appetite for pushing vigorously for greater political rights, and will continue to hold back as jockeying intensifies ahead of the 2012 leadership succession -- a time when hard-line attitudes tend to dominate. A sharp taste of that came in March 2009, when Wu Bangguo, the head of the National People's Congress, a rubber-stamp Parliament, made a speech in which he dismissed any move toward Western-style democracy, mentioning it no fewer than nine times.
''We will never simply copy the system of Western countries or introduce a system of multiple parties holding office in rotation,'' he said, adding that ''although China's state organs have different responsibilities, they all adhere to the line, principles and policies of the party.''
Some Chinese liberals like Mr. Wan say they see a compatriot in Prime Minister Wen Jiabao, who as recently as August publicly extolled the virtues of political change. ''Without the guarantee of political system reform, the successes of restructuring the economic system will be lost and the goal of modernization cannot be realized,'' Mr. Wen said, according to People's Daily.
Some liberal economists like Yang Yao and Wu Jinglian have also come out strongly in support of political restructuring, arguing that China's economy, where state-owned enterprises tied to the Communist Party continue to dominate the largest industries, can reach maturity only with the checks and balances that come with democracy.
The exact form of democracy is often left vague in these discussions. Liberals know that calling for multiparty elections -- a direct challenge to the primacy of the Communist Party -- is a red line. Mr. Wen, whom many Chinese praise but whose actual power is dubious, shies away from mentioning elections. Mr. Liu and the co-writers of Charter 08 were also careful to avoid calling for any immediate, drastic change to the Communist Party's hold on power.
''Our intention was not to threaten the party or the government,'' said Zhang Zuhua, one of the charter's main authors. ''It was to put forth this framework of universal values, and build a consensus within society around it, among both those within and outside the system.''
''Except the government,'' he said, ''clearly does not affirm these universal values.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Protesters outside the Chinese Foreign Ministry in Hong Kong on Friday demanded the release of Liu Xiaobo, winner of the Nobel Peace Prize. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE CLARKE/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AWARDS & PRIZES (93%); NOBEL PRIZES (91%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%)

PERSON: DALAI LAMA (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (89%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); HONG KONG (79%); INDIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); TIBET (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2010



231 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1298 words

HEADLINE: Gaffe Puts Jerry Brown, Poetic and Profane, Under Fire Again

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY; Adam Nagourney contributed reporting from Los Angeles and Malia Wollan from San Francisco.

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO -- On Wednesday night, at a party held for young San Francisco Democrats, Jerry Brown took the microphone and gave the kind of stirring, if somewhat eccentric, speech that has defined his 40 years in politics.
''California is not only a state of place, it's a state of imagination,'' Mr. Brown said. ''This is the place of Hollywood movies, it's the place of rocket ships, it's the place of wind machines. It's the place of all sorts of ideas,'' Mr. Brown riffed, quickly building in a crescendo, saying that California politics were ''screwed up'' and broken.
''But if we can summon up the spontaneity and the creativity in California,'' he said, ''we can transform what is a breakdown into a breakthrough. And that's why I'm running for governor.''
The crowd roared in approval. But just a day later, it was a different kind of episode that would raise questions about Mr. Brown's campaign, after The Los Angeles Times posted a muddy audio recording on Thursday night in which a campaign aide is heard calling his Republican opponent, Meg Whitman, a ''whore.'' 
The Brown campaign apologized soon after, and the political fallout from the comment -- which Ms. Whitman's camp called ''an appalling and unforgivable smear'' -- is uncertain. It is not clear whether Mr. Brown even heard the remark, or acknowledged it, but the episode is serving as a reminder for Democrats of the sometimes vexing dichotomy of Mr. Brown's long career: a politician prone to both dreamy idealism and cold pragmatism, capable of being both poetic and profane in the same sentence and often surrounded with starry-eyed do-gooders and the occasional fringe character.
''He is most definitely not the blow-dry-haired, antiseptic, focus-group-tested candidate that most are used to in this day and age in politics,'' said Christopher Lehane, a Democratic consultant. ''And that cuts both ways.''
A serious student and literal son of California government -- his father, Edmund G. Brown Sr., was governor from 1959 to 1967 -- Jerry Brown, now 72, has worked to throw off a past image as the bad boy who dated Linda Ronstadt and earned the sobriquet ''Governor Moonbeam'' (for his unorthodox political outlook) during his own two terms as governor, from 1975 to 1983.
Nor is it the first gaffe to strike the current campaign. In June, Mr. Brown compared Ms. Whitman's advertising blitz to Hitler's propaganda minister, Joseph Goebbels, after meeting a local radio reporter during a jog in the Oakland hills near his home. (Mr. Brown later said that he believed his remarks, which the reporter blogged, were off the record.)
Mr. Brown, of course, has always seemed to relish being seen as a little bit out there, something in clear view in what may be his last campaign, this time against Ms. Whitman, a billionaire who has largely kept to her talking points.
''I think from the beginning Brown has tried to turn his weakness into an asset,'' said Bill Whalen, a research fellow at the Hoover Institution at Stanford and a conservative political consultant. ''The quirkiness that once was 'Governor Moonbeam' is being woven into the narrative of the campaign, in that she is at all times very scripted, and Jerry strays.''
But the recorded conversation also showed another side of Mr. Brown: a political player with an often brusque approach to political adversity. It was apparently taped in early September when Mr. Brown called a Los Angeles-based police union to ask for its support and left a voice-mail message. After the call is completed, Mr. Brown tries to hang up, but the recording continues. Mr. Brown's voice rises as he worries aloud that he might lose the group's endorsement to Ms. Whitman, amid the union's concerns about his position on public employee pensions.
''Do we want to put an ad out?'' Mr. Brown is heard to say. ''I've been warned if I crack down on pensions, I will be -- that they'll go to Whitman, and that's where they'll go because they know Whitman will give 'em, will cut them a deal, but I won't.''
Then an unidentified person speaks, saying: ''What about saying she's a whore?''
There is a jumble of sound, before Mr. Brown is heard again. ''Well, I'm going to use that,'' he says. ''It proves you've cut a secret deal to protect the pensions.''
On Friday, Sterling Clifford, a campaign spokesman, said that Mr. Brown was not agreeing with or that he even recognized the ''whore'' comment, but was addressing the issue of whether Ms. Whitman ''was currying favor with the union.'' The campaign also said it was working to determine who made the comment.
Mr. Lehane, the Democratic strategist, said that the remarks might cause Mr. Brown to ''lose a news cycle or two,'' but that it could actually play into his favor if he is seen as not caving in to unions, which have contributed millions to his campaign. ''The bigger takeaway is that he's not your average politician,'' he said. ''And I think that's served him well over time.''
But in such a tight race -- and with questions still lingering about Ms. Whitman's treatment of an illegal immigrant once in her employ -- others said that the question of Mr. Brown's maturity could alienate voters, and particularly women, already wary of his rough edges.
''There's a line which women find totally unacceptable, and most men, when you're discussing a woman's character,'' said Victoria Budson, executive director of the Women and Public Policy Program at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard. ''And whoever said this, this is way over that line.''
She added that such language also raised questions about those close to Mr. Brown. ''And who you surround yourself with is an extraordinary statement about who one is,'' Ms. Budson said.
That said, Mr. Brown has abandoned more controversial advisers, including Jacques Barzaghi, a gurulike figure whose black-on-black wardrobe was a constant in Mr. Brown's camp for decades. Mr. Brown's spokesman said Mr. Barzaghi was fired in 2004 while Mr. Brown was Oakland's mayor after allegations arose about improper behavior by Mr. Barzaghi away from the office.
A longtime bachelor, in 2005 Mr. Brown married Anne Gust, the former chief administrative officer of the Gap, who serves as a fund-raiser and informal adviser on the campaign. In a debate last month, Mr. Brown made light of a question about another possible presidential bid (he ran in 1976, 1980 and 1992).
''I now have a wife, I come home at night,'' he said. ''I don't try to close down the bars in Sacramento like I used to do when I was governor of California.''
That humor and fight have been more and more evident in recent weeks as Mr. Brown's campaign, which was largely quiet until Memorial Day, began to pick up steam, particularly after a pair of feisty debate performances occasionally peppered with mild curse words. Polls have shown him with a slight lead, despite Ms. Whitman spending more than $120 million of her fortune on her bid.
Last week in Fresno, for example, he hammered his opponent over her treatment of Nicky Diaz Santillan, a Mexican citizen Ms. Whitman employed for nine years before firing her in 2009. ''I don't think it's really decent,'' Mr. Brown said after the debate. ''I don't think the people of California are going to think it is.''
Now, Mr. Brown may face similar scrutiny over remarks from his campaign. On Wednesday in San Francisco, such concerns seemed a million miles away, as he spoke to a crowd of supporters and volunteers.
At the tail end of his six-minute speech, he railed against the ''unlimited money'' they faced. But he ended on a upbeat note.
''There's a magic when the power of the people comes together,'' he said. ''They can overcome whatever the obstacle is, whether it's a tyranny or massive spending or bad ideas. When the people come together they can overcome.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jerry Brown, second from left. An aide was recorded making a crude remark about his opponent (PHOTOGRAPH BY JONATHAN ALCORN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
Linda Ronstadt and Jerry Brown in 1979, during his time as governor of California. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A13) CHART: Same Candidate, Different California: 1974 AGE 36 JOB California secretary of state SLOGAN ''New Spirit'' STATE POPULATION 21.2 million UNEMPLOYMENT RATE 9 percent 1975 BUDGET $554 million surplus PREDECESSOR Ronald Reagan, Republican former actor REPUBLICAN OPPONENT Houston I. Flournoy, state controller RESULT Elected, with 50 percent of the vote.
 2010 AGE 72 JOB California attorney general SLOGAN ''Let's get California working again'' STATE POPULATION 37 million UNEMPLOYMENT RATE 12.4 percent 2011 BUDGET Balanced after spending cuts to close a $19 billion deficit PREDECESSOR Arnold Schwarzenegger, Republican former actor REPUBLICAN OPPONENT Meg Whitman, former chief executive of eBay 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (68%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (66%); FOCUS GROUPS (61%); FILM (56%)

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (68%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (68%)

PERSON: JERRY BROWN (94%); MARGARET C WHITMAN (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2010



232 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 499 words

HEADLINE: The September Report

 BODY:
There was no good news in the September employment report. The economy lost another 95,000 jobs last month, as a modest gain in private-sector jobs was swamped by big losses in government jobs. 
Worse, most of the new private sector jobs do not appear to be particularly good ones -- bars and restaurants added the most positions of any sector, followed by temporary hiring services. Meanwhile, state and local governments cut good jobs, including 58,000 teachers and other education workers who were not called back for the new school year.
The job market is not stalling, it is regressing. There is no evidence that employment will recover on its own. Corporations now hold an astounding $1.6 trillion in cash, but they are not hiring. Government could help, but Republicans in Congress -- for political and ideological reasons -- have relentlessly delayed and blocked action.
Congressional Democrats have managed to keep jobless benefits flowing and pass bills for a hiring tax credit, bolstered aid to states and help for small businesses. None of these moves are up to the scale of the problem. President Obama recently proposed $50 billion in infrastructure investments, as well as generous tax credits for business investment. He will need to push a lot harder if there is any hope of persuading Congress to sign on.
The Republicans' antigovernment pitch is playing well in the polls. The jobs report should be the best argument against that.
Here are some more truths that need airing: Republicans revile last year's stimulus law, but without it, unemployment -- at 9.6 percent -- would be up to 2 percentage points higher, according to the Congressional Budget Office. With the stimulus waning, the unemployment number would be higher, but for the grim fact that some 3.5 million people have either quit looking for work or not entered the labor force during the downturn.
In all, September's job tally shows that more than 1 in 6 American workers is either officially jobless, no longer looking for work, or working part time because they can't find a full-time job.
What will it take to get companies to invest and hire again? Businesses need to believe that customers will be willing to spend, but high joblessness calls future spending into question, causing companies to sit tight. A big government agenda for jobs -- including public/private partnerships in energy and transportation -- could change that mind-set, attract corporate investment and create jobs. That is, if Washington's politicians -- of both parties -- had the courage to lead rather than pander.
So what are corporations doing with all of their money? Instead of investing in the country's future, some are beginning to buy back their shares or buy other companies. That will enrich shareholders but is unlikely to lead to more hiring.
President Obama needs to lay out and fight for an ambitious, detailed job-creating agenda. Americans need to understand that the alternative is more grim jobs reports for years to come.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); LAYOFFS (78%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (73%); TAX LAW (73%); POLITICS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (73%); RESTAURANTS (71%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (71%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); SMALL BUSINESS (67%); SHAREHOLDERS (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2010



233 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 169 words

HEADLINE: Wholesale Inventories and Sales Rose in August

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (AP) -- Businesses have been restocking store shelves since the recession ended, a sign that they expect the economic recovery to continue. 
Inventories and sales at the wholesale level rose 0.8 percent in August, after a 1.5 percent increase the month before, the Commerce Department said Friday. Sales rose 0.5 percent, a slightly smaller gain than the 0.8 percent rise in July.
Businesses helped drive the early stage of the recovery last year by rebuilding inventories that grew thin during the recession. The economic crisis led wholesalers to cut their inventories for 13 consecutive months starting in September 2008. When they started restocking last year, that bolstered orders to factories in the United States and helped spur overall economic growth.
A series of disappointing data this summer fed fears that the economy could slip into another recession. July's strong results eased those concerns. The August data confirms economists' view that the recovery is continuing at a slow, steady pace.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); INVENTORIES (90%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (90%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (88%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (88%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); FACTORY ORDERS (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2010



234 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1348 words

HEADLINE: Religious Persuasion

BYLINE: By ROBERT WRIGHT. 
Robert Wright, a senior fellow at the New America Foundation, is the author, most recently, of ''The Evolution of God'' and the editor in chief of Bloggingheads.tv.

 BODY:
AMERICAN GRACE
How Religion Divides and Unites Us
By Robert D. Putnam and David E. Campbell with the assistance of Shaylyn Romney Garrett
Illustrated. 673 pp. Simon & Schuster. $30
At first glance, the authors of ''American Grace'' would seem to suffer from very bad timing. Between the completion of their manuscript and its publication, the dispute over the Islamic center in Lower Manhattan erupted, followed by the Koran-burning controversy, and somewhere along the way a New York cabdriver was stabbed, apparently for being a Muslim. All this gives a quaint air to their declaration, in the book's first chapter, that ''America peacefully combines a high degree of religious devotion with tremendous religious diversity.'' And it seems to render moot one of their main goals: to illuminate the source of this interfaith tolerance.
Actually, though, the story told in this book, by the social scientists Robert D. Putnam of Harvard and David E. Campbell of Notre Dame, is urgently relevant to the recent surge in interfaith tension. 
True, America's tradition of peaceful religious coexistence is largely about harmony among Christian denominations, and so doesn't speak directly to the question of Islam's place in America. But it's also true that there was a time when many American Protestants viewed Roman Catholics no more charitably than a certain Pentecostal preacher in Florida views Muslims. In the 19th century, a Massachusetts convent was destroyed by anti-Catholic rioters, and civil unrest in Philadelphia -- set off by rumors that Catholics wanted to rid the public schools of Bibles -- led to some two dozen deaths and the destruction of two churches.
The question of how this changed, how Protestants came to stress their commonality with Catholics, is, generically speaking, the question of the day: How do mutual fear, hostility and suspicion give way to amity, or at least tolerance? How do supposedly deep doctrinal chasms recede from view? The answers offered by Putnam and Campbell deserve the attention of everyone concerned about America's future cohesion.
This is a big, multifaceted work, with scores of graphs, as well as narrative vignettes that put flesh on the book's analytical skeleton. (A tour through the Rev. Rick Warren's Saddleback megachurch, for example, helps explain the power of state-of-the-art evangelism.) The topics covered range from the dynamics of conversion to the role in religion of gender, ethnicity and class to the question of how civically engaged believers are. (Putnam gained fame for his lament, in ''Bowling Alone,'' about the seeming decline of civic engagement.) But the dominant theme is, as the subtitle puts it, ''How Religion Divides and Unites Us.''
Putnam and Campbell pay particular attention to the past half-century, which has shown how fluid fault lines can be. In 1960, the marriage of a Protestant to a Catholic was often unwelcome on both sides of the aisle, and the presidential candidate John F. Kennedy faced intense Protestant skepticism. Today churchgoing Catholics and Protestants often feel as if they're on the same team.
They tend toward conservatism on social issues, opposing a liberal coalition that includes lapsed Catholics, mainline Protestants of often modest devoutness and growing legions of the avowedly nonreligious. Putnam and Campbell write, ''By the 2000s, how religious a person is had become more important as a political dividing line than which denomination he or she belonged to.''
This leads to a puzzle. If the devoutly religious increasingly constitute one big family, why aren't Muslims a part of it? Why was the would-be 9/11 Koran burner not an atheist but a minister from an evangelical church (if, in fairness to mainstream evangelicals, an eccentric evangelical church)? Why are Newt Gingrich and other politicians who aim to harness fear of Muslims directing their message toward evangelicals with, apparently, some success?
The answer may lie in the final chapter. Here the authors explain the observation they started the book with: America's religious diversity hasn't generally involved much intolerance. Indeed, believers seem willing to bend basic doctrines in the name of interfaith amity. Most Christians, even most evangelical Christians, believe that non-Christians can go to heaven, notwithstanding the New Testament's repeated assertions that Christ is the only path to the Kingdom of God.
The authors' explanation for this bigheartedness is common-sensical: ''Most Americans are intimately acquainted with people of other faiths.'' Americans have, on average, at least two friends who don't share their faith, and at least one extended-family member who fits that description. And who wants to tell friends or relatives that they're going to hell -- or even believe that a friend or relative is going to hell? More broadly: getting to know an adherent of an otherwise alien faith tends to humanize the aliens.
Obviously, there's a chicken-and-egg issue here. Are we tolerant because of our diverse social networks, or do we have diverse social networks because we're tolerant? Putnam and Campbell, aware of the problem, wield an analytical tool that, though not dispositive, is unusually subtle. They conducted surveys with the same large pool of people in consecutive years and tracked changes in both social milieus and attitudes. They conclude, for instance, that gaining an evangelical friend leads to a warmer assessment of evangelicals -- by seven degrees on a ''feeling thermometer,'' to be exact -- and gaining a nonreligious friend brings four degrees of added warmth toward the nonreligious.
In this view, a recipe for being viewed coolly is to be a religious group that is both small and geographically concentrated; that way, most Americans don't have a chance to meet anyone from your group. This is the authors' posited explanation for why Buddhists, Mormons and Muslims get particularly low feeling-thermometer readings.
Of course, Muslims suffer from an additional problem. If most Americans don't personally know any Muslims, they've seen some on TV -- Osama bin Laden, for starters. That may help explain why, though 54 percent of evangelicals say non-Christians can go to heaven, only 35 percent say Muslims can.
Even so, the authors' 2007 survey found that evangelicals, like mainline Protestants, viewed Muslims no more coolly than they viewed Buddhists. But black Protestants viewed Muslims more positively than they did Buddhists, perhaps, the authors point out, because many black Christians are acquainted with black Muslims.
The claim here isn't that mere social contact is Miracle Glue. Drawing on longstanding social theory, the authors suggest that certain ingredients -- sharing a goal, for example -- make acquaintance more likely to bring affinity. Still, given that many Muslims are aligned with evangelicals and churchgoing Catholics on various social issues, that particular ingredient would seem to be in place; maybe the contact itself is what's mainly lacking.
There are two basic schools of thought on religious strife. Essentialists believe that religions have a firm character, grounded in Scripture and theology and doctrine, and that religious conflicts are thus deep-seated and enduring. The more optimistic view is that clashing beliefs aren't the big problem; underlying the conflict, and driving it, are less ethereal and in some cases more pliable issues: economic grievances or insecurities, resentment of perceived arrogance, fears of domination (like the perceived threat of Western cultural or political hegemony, or of worldwide Shariah).
Putnam and Campbell are closer to the second camp. Repeatedly, they show how fluid religious doctrine and practice are, how responsive to social and political context. In that sense, their subtitle is subtly misleading; this intellectually powerful book suggests that religion per se is often not the thing that actually divides us. This view, though common in academia, is hardly gospel among the public at large. But it may turn out to be gospel in the literal sense of the term: good news.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY HASAN JAMALI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (97%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (92%); BOOK REVIEWS (91%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); WRITERS (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (89%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); CELEBRITIES (77%); QURAN & ISLAMIC TEXTS (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (74%); ETHNICITY (69%); RIOTS (64%)

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: American Grace: How Religion Divides and Unites Us (Book)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2010



235 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; CONSUMED; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 869 words

HEADLINE: Shared Tastes

BYLINE: By ROB WALKER

 BODY:
For some, the old cliche that you are what you eat has taken on increasingly complex implications: food choices can be a stand-in for social, ideological, even political identity and beliefs. Eaters can form communities of a sort, and businesses are built catering to them. Surely this has contributed to the interest in ''incubator'' programs designed to give new opportunities to aspiring food entrepreneurs. The concept has all the foodie do-gooder trimmings, often involving local cooks making cuisine linked to their immigrant backgrounds.
On the other hand, none of that quite fits with the goal of a typical business incubator, which is to help start-ups achieve success in the marketplace. Markets and communities have similarities but also differences. For an example of how this gets reconciled by a ''kitchen incubator,'' it's useful to look at one of the better-known examples of the form, La Cocina, in San Francisco, which opened in 2005. A communal dimension is a core of the enterprise -- but it's at the back end: a shared commercial kitchen, used primarily by low-income women, mostly immigrants, who want to build a food business but wouldn't have the resources to do so on their own. 
The program, a nonprofit, also offers practical business training and mentoring. The upshot is about 40 independent enterprises operating out of one kitchen. One such business is El Buen Comer, owned by Isabel Caudillo. Caudillo used to cook and sell traditional Mexican food from her home kitchen; now she rents space at La Cocina, has a catering business and sells at the Noe Valley Farmers Market. El Buen Comer can produce more with access to a professional kitchen, and La Cocina helps Caudillo reach new consumers, for instance by helping out with a Web site that both advertises her food and tells her story.
That back story, combined with authentic recipes and ingredients, is perfect for the deeper-meaning-of-food consumer. And yet that conceptual framework means very little to someone like Caudillo, observes Caleb Zigas, La Cocina's executive director. When she was cooking out of her home, her customers were neighborhood workers whose ideas about food were to fill up on something tasty for a good price. That attitude, Zigas continues, is a lot closer to the hardheaded business thinking La Cocina looks for and tries to instill in its participants, a point that sometimes gets lost. ''The value they offered for the food they make is really good,'' he says. (In fact, he adds an amusing anecdote about another participant, Veronica Salazar, the owner of El Huarache Loco, telling an interviewer that she didn't use organic ingredients. She finally admitted that, actually, she does -- but avoids saying so because to many of her customers it simply ''sounds expensive.'')
Even so, it seems reasonable to assume that at least part of what attracts consumers to these incubated food makers is the halo effect of entities like La Cocina. The concept isn't exactly new. The ACEnet Food Manufacturing and Commercial Kitchen Facility in Athens, Ohio, has been around for years and is shared by around 150 food entrepreneurs. (It's part of the Appalachian Center for Economic Networks, which offers broader business-incubation programs as well.) The Food Innovation Center at Rutgers University operates a 23,000-square-foot shared facility. Zigas says La Cocina gets about a call a week from some entity or other looking to start a kitchen-incubation program.
Assumptions aside, it may be that the most successful food entrepreneurs put the least emphasis on the societal impact of their mission. La Marqueta, a revival of an East Harlem market underneath a stretch of elevated Metro North tracks, will include a food-incubation program, operated by Hot Bread Kitchen. It is a new step for the founder and executive director Jessamyn Waldman, but her nonprofit has a few years of experience selling its line of breads (focaccia, challah, corn tortillas, Armenian lavash, Moroccan m'smen), as well as granola and other products, all baked by foreign-born women looking for a pathway into the food business or for the chance to start a business of their own. She has drawn some conclusions in that time. One is that not everyone is cut out to be an entrepreneur. Another is that a positive back story helps, but it's not the right centerpiece for a food brand, because in the end it ''isn't going to make the sale,'' Waldman says.
The 4,600-square-foot professional kitchen will be ready to go by the end of the year, and Hot Bread is currently seeking potential participants to share it. New York, Waldman points out, has an unusually vibrant culture of food hounds sniffing around for the hidden-away kimchi joint or fresh tortilla source. There's an identity-signaling factor in that community, but it's not so much about food ethics as about alpha-eater taste status. That's the highly demanding market that La Marqueta vendors will need to remember. Hot Bread is a nonprofit that depends in part on direct donations from a public that cares about its mission, but despite this, Waldman is careful about spending too much time telling its story: ''I don't want to sell too much granola with our granola.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: AFFORDABLE COMMERCIAL COOKING SPACE. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAL C IZEK/AFP/GETTY IMAGES)
TECHNICAL SUPPORT AND GUIDANCE (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILIPPE LOPEZ/AFP/GETTY IMAGES) DRAWINGS: LOW-INCOME ENTREPRENEURS
 LA COCINA 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); COOKING & ENTERTAINING (89%); CATERING SERVICES (78%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (78%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (74%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (66%)

COMPANY: YOU ARE WHAT YOU EAT INC (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (91%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2010



236 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; POP-UP COMMUNITY CENTER; Pg. 58

LENGTH: 3363 words

HEADLINE: Pie + Design = Change

BYLINE: By JOHN T. EDGE. 
John T. Edge, director of the Southern Foodways Alliance at the University of Mississippi, writes the monthly column United Tastes for The Times's dining section.

 BODY:
ON A SUN-SPLASHED afternoon in August, blueberry pies and peach pies cooled on wire racks inside PieLab, a white brick cafe with floor-to-ceiling windows on Main Street in Greensboro, Ala. Behind a counter made of planks salvaged from abandoned sharecropper shacks, two young women slid pie tins into a double oven stack. At trestle tables, beneath industrial pendant lights, four young men, on lunch break from their G.E.D. classes, dug into slices of taco pie and made weekend plans.
If there was any thought that this was just a typical small-town cafe, the blue flag above the front door dispelled the notion. As the fabric rippled in the breeze, the words inscribed at the edges came into view: ''Pie & Conversation, Optimism & Design.'' Pie might be served inside, but this cafe aspired to something more. 
Founded by a design collective known as Project M, PieLab came to life last year as a combination pop-up cafe, design studio and civic clubhouse. Greensboro, the 2,700-person seat of Hale County, might seem an odd place for a group of well-intentioned young graphic-designers to set up a cafe. Situated in the Black Belt, a former cotton-producing region where the soil is dark and rich, Hale County appeared to be a lost cause. About one-third of the children there live in poverty. In 2002, The Birmingham News called the Black Belt ''Alabama's Third World.'' How could the baking and serving of pie help tackle entrenched social and economic ills?
Project M aimed to answer just such questions. Part of what has become known as the ''design for good'' movement, Project M was established by a designer named John Bielenberg in 2003. Based in Belfast, Me., it functions as a kind of idea incubator, where young designers are invited to two-week programs to generate solutions to social problems and enhance public life. Since 2007, Project M has been operating regularly in Greensboro. One of Project M's most successful projects in the area, Buy-a-Meter, was built around a series of pamphlets that helped raise money to hook up area residents to running water. Bielenberg, a contrarian who likes to challenge participants to ''reject linear thought pathways,'' had turned to food before to promote social change. In Connecticut, Project M and a design group named Winterhouse held an event called Pizza Farm, inviting local farmers to an area park and using their produce to make pizza for residents, while educating them about where their food could come from.
PieLab first began to take shape in March 2009 at a bar in Belfast, where 14 members of Project M gathered over burgers and beer. ''We realized that we couldn't solve global warming,'' recalled Megan Deal, a native of suburban Detroit, who, like most of the other Project M members, was a recent college graduate. ''And we couldn't fix the plummeting economy. Before pie came to us, we were kind of paralyzed.''
They started out small. Their first foray was Free Pie Day, during which Project M members stood on a Belfast street corner and handed out slices of pecan pie, pumpkin pie and apple pie to passers-by. The idea was to spur community and conversation, one slice at a time. Free Pie Day inspired similar efforts in Washington, Brooklyn and elsewhere. Most important, it inspired PieLab.
''WHEN I SAW THEM out front, I walked over,'' Charles Johnson, a beauty-shop owner, said. ''I saw the sign'' -- the one that spelled out LAB with stainless-steel pegs and washers -- ''and I asked, 'Is this some kind of radio technology or space-center stuff?' ''
PieLab opened in a makeshift space on a Greensboro side street in May of last year. Five of the original Project M team members in Maine had come south at the invitation of the Hale Empowerment and Revitalization Organization (HERO), a housing-advocacy nonprofit, which also sponsored community-minded local initiatives. The Project M team conceived of their pie shop as a pop-up -- a temporary cafe -- describing it as a ''negative-energy inverter, fueled by pie.''
The term ''pop-up'' implies that a concept may be too cutting-edge to sustain. And so it was with PieLab. No one expected this pop-up to last, least of all the designers who transformed the original space in a breakneck three-week stretch and managed it with gusto for the rest of the spring and summer.
But that first day at the PieLab was a success. There was music, courtesy of a customer with an acoustic guitar. The crowd was diverse. Ideas were exchanged. Intergenerational friendships were forged. The take, at two bucks per apple-pie slice, was something like $400.
PieLab had visual style. And PieLab had a formula, a back-of-the-bar-napkin equation, sketched in Maine and refined on the ground in Greensboro:
PieLab = a neutral place + a slice of pie.
A neutral place + a slice of pie = conversation.
Conversation = ideas + design.
Ideas + design = positive change.
Yet for all its ambition, PieLab never had a business plan or a firm grasp on what sort of change was sought. This was intentional. Bielenberg wasn't much interested in long-term goals; he believed in setting something in motion and letting the momentum guide the effort.
The plan was simply to open PieLab's doors, begin conversations with the people of Greensboro and encourage them to create progressive inititatives of their own. ''We had an idea,'' said Brian W. Jones, a collaborator from Virginia. ''That was it. We opened without a business license or the complete approval of the health inspector.''
PieLab's logo -- two crimp-crusted pie slices, positioned tip to tip to form a double beaker, an hourglass or some other old-school scientific apparatus -- said it all. Here food wasn't just fuel. And design wasn't merely a way to arrange your living room furniture. Design, when applied to food, could be a catalytic force for good, even if the good wasn't specified.
PieLab operated out of temporary quarters for four months. HERO, under the direction of Pam Dorr, served as host and landlord. Six years earlier, Dorr left a job as a production manager for the Gap in California to join the social-service efforts in Hale County. Dorr collaborated with Project M on earlier projects, finding practical applications for their ideas. To support PieLab, she secured government grants, helped build ties in the community and served as a hands-off adviser.
That first PieLab space, in a tin-roofed clapboard home behind the HERO offices, was spare and studied, with glossy white walls, high ceilings and open shelving. A hand-cranked cash register sat on the front counter, alongside a silverware tray and a decommissioned library card catalog. Inscribed with the names and check-out histories of old books, the cards served as sketch pads and, on occasion, order pads for $3 slice-and-coffee combos.
The earnestness was palpable. The Project M crew baked pie and brewed coffee. They crimped crusts with forks and piled on pears and pecans gathered and delivered by neighbors. They designed Web sites for the Hale County Humane Society and created logos for the nearby city of Northport.
For the socially engaged members of Project M, PieLab was a clubhouse. For small-town characters, it was a magnet. College students from Sewanee, Tenn., ate through all the pecan pie one afternoon. A film director just back from Thailand came in for coffee and talked about his next project, a Big Foot horror movie.
Over time, the Project M folk befriended Scott Hamilton, an aspiring artist. They designed a Web site on which he posted his paintings of cities of the future, shaped like skyscraping minarets. When Charles Johnson, a regular, was in a good mood, he performed on the pine floors, moving to a line-dance routine called the Cupid Shuffle.
Within a few months of opening, following a spate of positive design-industry press, PieLab-inspired efforts popped up in cities like Portland, Ore. In Greenville, Ala., southwest of Montgomery, Nancy Rhodes recently opened Polka Dots Cafe, cater-corner from the town's Confederate memorial. She serves kolaches, a Czech pastry popular in Texas. Inspired by PieLab, she plans to operate a ''neutral space,'' where people of all races and classes can gather.
''THAT FIRST SPACE was really grass roots,'' Megan Deal recalled. ''It was so easy to build, so easy to run. There was an honesty about it, a purity. It was all about pie and conversation. All about what we intended. It worked.''
More significant, it seemed to work in the Black Belt, a region that a New York Times writer, in the days before the cotton economy went bust, described as a ''garden of slavery.'' Poverty rates may register higher in other counties in the region, and racial disparities have proved wider, but Hale County has long been the Black Belt's front porch. Hale was where James Agee and Walker Evans drew their famed portrait of Depression-era tenant farmer life, ''Let Us Now Praise Famous Men,'' a book that has served as a primary text for students of rural America in the decades since. And Hale was where Samuel Mockbee and D. K. Ruth established the Rural Studio, a design-and-build program for Auburn University architecture students, focused on creating high-concept, low-cost homes for indigent residents. Don't be ''house pets to the rich,'' Mockbee told his charges, sounding a clarion that inspired, among others, John Bielenberg.
All this attention to social ills did not come without social costs. Almost 75 years have passed since Agee and Evans traveled the county to document the lives of poor white folk, but their work still has the power to inflame residents. If outsiders see Evans's photos and Agee's text as a candid examination of an ailing region, insiders often see the book as the product of crusading interlopers, the sort of people who parachute into the region today with little understanding of local concerns.
Amanda Buck is not the only Project M collaborator who has walked into the Hale County Library on Main Street to check out ''Let Us Now Praise Famous Men'' and learned that lesson. ''Everybody who comes down here wants to read that book,'' Buck recalled a librarian saying as she handed her a copy. ''You know this doesn't paint the whole picture. There are other perspectives.''
BUCK, A NATIVE OF Brunswick, Ohio, who was a member of the original 2009 Project M program and later traveled south to work at PieLab, showed up thinking that she was to be a ''change agent.'' But when she talked about change, many Hale County residents heard condemnation. No matter, she thought. ''What are we doing here if we're not working for change?''
In the Black Belt, Project M collaborators could afford to be idealists. They worked hard, but their lives unspooled like summer-camp deferments. ''On weekends we swam in the river,'' Brian Jones recalled. ''We wandered down Main Street at sunset and admired the way the light bounced off the buildings.''
They ate lunches of fried whiting and fried okra at Flava, a soul-food cafe set in a brick compound one block off Main Street. And they listened as Eugene Lyles, who built the restaurant in the 1960s, told them that, back when the black-power movement was ascendant, he was an idealist, too. Weekday afternoons, they walked the town, past shuttered storefronts. At night, they sometimes played four-square games on Main Street, sidestepping pulpwood trucks as they downshifted from the highway. They measured success in modest exchanges. Buck and Robin Mooty, another early PieLab worker, designed and painted a new sign for Charles Johnson's salon. In return, Johnson took Buck and Deal golfing.
PieLab efforts played well to the news media. Here was hope, and apple pie, and a seemingly robust new economic engine in the Black Belt, a seemingly hopeless American place. And here was an effort that aligned nicely with the national trend toward food activism. ''PieLab provides a neutral environment in a traditionally segregated town where people from every race and class are welcome to sit together and talk candidly about whatever is on their mind,'' Brian Jones told Fast Company magazine.
PieLab, along with projects like Mission Pie in San Francisco (which employs at-risk youth and uses local ingredients for its pies), is part of an American movement to deploy food-focused initiatives, including restaurant operation and artisanal food production, to foster social change. The culinary establishment embraced PieLab. The magazine Southern Living, the prevailing arbiter of middle-class regional taste, dubbed its apple pie one of the South's best. The James Beard Foundation named the Main Street PieLab space one of three 2010 finalists for its restaurant design award.
All the attention buoyed the PieLab collaborators. But it also created problems. When Project M first arrived in Greensboro, some folk bristled at the language it employed. The conflicts began with the 2007 Buy-a-Meter project. To get the initiative under way, Project M used stark black-and-white photos (and starker messages) to draw attention to area families who lacked access to the municipal water supply. The pamphlet campaign raised about $50,000. HERO, working in conjunction with Project M, used this money to purchase and install more than 100 water meters. Beyond Alabama, Buy-a-Meter was celebrated as a financial and critical success. But back home, the slogan -- ''In Hale County, Alabama, Water Is Not a Right,'' splayed across a gatefold photograph of Greensboro's Main Street -- did not always play so well. Tensions increased when a group of designers proposed a National Design Center for Rural Poverty Programs in Greensboro. To make clear the need, they described Hale County as a place where an ''impoverished population suffers from substandard housing, education, health care and job opportunities.''
In Greensboro, such sweeping generalizations, no matter their accuracy, stung. ''What does some guy in Maine know about my life in Alabama?'' asked Ann Langford, chief clerk of the Hale County Probate Court and onetime Rural Studio administrator. ''Who gave him the right to speak for us?''
By that point, a number of new voices were speaking for the Black Belt. At least seven windmill-tilting organizations were doing good works in Hale County, including Project Horseshoe Farm, a residential mental-health facility. Those programs brought youthful energy to Greensboro. They also brought trouble.
''You have the same town-and-gown tensions here that you would find in a small Massachusetts college town,'' said Winnie Cobbs, a retired college professor who operates a local bed-and-breakfast. As she talked, two young women, wearing jogging bras and college mascot tank tops, race-walked through downtown. Inside PieLab, a Horseshoe Farm fellow hunched over her laptop, filling out medical-school application forms.
''It's universal,'' Cobbs said. ''You hear the same talk about the loose morals of young kids. And you hear the same suspicion of the motives of outsiders.''
''I WAS NAIVE,'' BUCK SAID. ''I knew nothing about baking pies and running a business.''
As Buck talked, she squirmed in her chair in what was the original pop-up PieLab space and is now used by AmeriCorps Vista volunteers who run BikeLab, a bicycle-repair and reclamation project also initiated by Project M and HERO. ''We came with preconceived notions about what we would find in Alabama,'' she said.
In October 2009, as the PieLab crew worked to refurbish their new brick-fronted space on Main Street -- the one with polished wood floors and a balloon-whisk bathroom light fixture -- tensions reached a pitch in what came to be known as the ''cake thing'' or the ''poster incident.''
Designed by a couple of the PieLab workers, the poster was printed in an array of colors, the most arresting of which was bright red. Rendered in a bold, black font and capped by an exclamation point, were the words: ''Eat pie.'' Stacked beneath, in far smaller type, was a command that began with a sexually explicit four-letter word and ended with the word ''cake.''
To the PieLab crew, the poster was an over-the-top exercise in sloganeering. To members of the Greensboro community, who followed the workings of PieLab on various Web sites, the document was a totem of the group's cultural insensitivities.
''The humor might have played well in Brooklyn,'' Buck said, taking pains to explain that the posters were never intended for local distribution. ''But here it wasn't funny at all.''
Posters quickly found their way into the hands of city and county powerbrokers. Things came to a head during a heated conversation in the street, which Pam Dorr, of HERO, playfully described as a ''near riot.''
''I understand what they intended,'' Winnie Cobbs said. ''It was playful and frivolous. I got the Marie Antoinette reference. It takes us back to the time of the French Revolution. But you have to pick your place to use that word. And posters, plastered around this town, would not have been that place.''
Ann Langford still keeps a rolled copy beneath her desk at the courthouse. ''I can't take a poster with that word on it home,'' she said. Langford understands youthful indiscretion. Yet she still gets agitated when she talks about the incident.
''So is that the best that you can come up with after going off to college?'' she asked a group of PieLab workers who came to apologize. ''Is that what your parents sent you to school to learn? I thought y'all were supposed to set examples.''
THREE MONTHS HAVE now passed since ''the takeover.'' That's the term that Pam Dorr uses to describe the process by which she jettisoned the design side of the PieLab equation. Her technique was simple: Rather than renew some of the governmental programs under which the original crew was employed, Dorr allowed certain sources of financing to lapse. One by one, the founders departed.
Under Dorr's leadership, PieLab may still realize some of the transformative goals imagined by the original crew. Early in the process, PieLab began working with YouthBuild, a job-training-and-remedial-education program, affiliated with the U.S. Department of Labor. At first, 20-somethings from programs like that were ancillary to the PieLab effort. Now job training appears to be primary. Some of the changes have been more pragmatic. PieLab no longer opens at 9 in the morning, as it did when the Project M crew ran the show. Gone are the stacks of take-one, leave-one cards with recipes for graduate-student fodder like tofu stroganoff. Gone, too, is the pie-only menu. PieLab now serves homemade biscuits at 7 in the morning to farmers and construction workers. In the afternoon, it sells butter-crusted quiches, piled with precut nubs of ham, to lunchtime tourists, drawn by glossy photos in magazines like Bon Appetit.
One recent morning, Melvin Webster, who is studying construction skills through YouthBuild while working on his G.E.D., drank coffee and talked of how he learned to blend pecan butter from cracked nuts for a HERO-sponsored initiative called Pecans! It was a task in which he seemed to take great pride. Across the counter, Sam Heartsill, a mother of two whose work at PieLab is financed in part by a federally subsidized employment program, drained a bottle of lemon-juice concentrate into homemade custard. At PieLab, both the food and the focus are still works in progress. Dorr leads the progress. As executive director of HERO, she has helped dozens of Hale County families move from busted trailers to tidy bungalows. Now, in her work with PieLab, she has proposed courses for young cooks to learn about the virtues of local produce and traditional techniques. And she holds hospitality classes for those aspiring to careers in the food industry.
When Dorr talks about PieLab, she typically drops the word ''lab'' and the baggage associated with it. As in, ''Let's go down to Pie and get a slice.'' Or, ''Modern Woodmen of America are having their lunch meeting at Pie.'' Or, ''Let's go see what the girls are up to down at Pie.''
''It began as cool place to drink coffee and eat pie,'' she said between bites of a blueberry-and-cream-cheese pastry cup. ''Now it has the chance to be more than that. It may not be as cool, but it's a life-full place.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Let Us Now Praise Lemon Icebox Pie: Scenes from PieLab. (MM59)
Despite their status as outsiders, the PieLab crew brought a sense of vitality to Main Street Greensboro. Elsewhere, as on Tuscaloosa Street, signs of neglect persist. (MM61)
 Pam Dorr, executive director of a local housing nonprofit that now runs PieLab. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ALESSANDRA SANGUINETTI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MM62) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (89%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (72%); FARM LABOR (72%); POOR POPULATION (69%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (65%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (64%); CHILD POVERTY (50%); GLOBAL WARMING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TUSCALOOSA, AL, USA (78%) ALABAMA, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2010



237 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: Kidnapped Scottish Aid Worker in Afghanistan Is Killed During Rescue Raid

BYLINE: By ALISSA J. RUBIN; Sharifullah Sahak contributed reporting from Kabul, and Elisabetta Povoledo from Rome.

 BODY:
KABUL, Afghanistan -- A Scottish aid worker who was taken hostage two weeks ago by the Taliban in eastern Afghanistan was killed by her captors early Saturday during an unsuccessful rescue raid, according to the British Foreign Office.
Also Saturday, four Italian soldiers were killed by a roadside bomb in western Afghanistan while escorting a convoy that was transporting building materials for a new operating base in the Gulistan District of Farah Province.
The aid worker, Linda Norgrove, 36, was regional director of a jobs program financed by the United States Agency for International Development for Afghanistan's eastern region. 
Former colleagues described her as a person of enormous warmth and kindness who was deeply committed to helping people in poor areas of the world and who had spent years in Peru and Laos as well as in Afghanistan.
''It is a tragedy that Linda was taken whilst doing the job she loved in a country she loved,'' Britain's foreign secretary, William Hague, said in a statement.
Ms. Norgrove was taken on Sept. 26 as she drove with two other cars from Jalalabad, the largest city in the eastern part of the country, to Asadabad, the capital of Kunar Province, an area heavily infiltrated by Taliban and Hizb-e-Islami insurgents. Kidnapped with her were three Afghan men, two drivers and a local employee of DAI, the American company for which she worked. The three Afghans were released last Sunday, according to officials involved in the case.
NATO forces undertook Saturday's predawn raid after the American and British militaries received information about where Ms. Norgrove was being held in Watepur District. ''We decided that, given the danger she was facing, her best chance of safe release was to act on that information,'' Mr. Hague said.
As American forces closed in, her captors killed her. A suicide vest was found nearby, but it was not clear if it had been detonated or if other explosives had been used to kill Ms. Norgrove, according to Western officials in Kabul. They said several of her captors were also killed.
The British and American militaries use raids when they fear a captive is in imminent danger or might be moved to a location, like Pakistan, where it is harder to stage a rescue.
Three other aid workers have been captured this year in Kunar Province; all of them worked for nonprofit organizations and were released after negotiations with the kidnappers.
However, in early August, nine medical aid workers, who similarly worked for a nonprofit group, were killed in Badakhshan Province in northern Afghanistan.
Ms. Norgrove loved Afghanistan from the first time she arrived in 2005 on a United Nations mission, colleagues said. While many United Nations workers stay for a year or two, she stayed for more than three years working on environmental programs and helping to administer an alternative livelihoods program for farmers in poppy farming regions.
When she left in 2008 to take a United Nations position in Laos, she returned to Afghanistan for her annual leave, hiking in the far north.
In her latest job she was the only expatriate in the Jalalabad office of DAI, directing about 200 Afghan professionals and coordinating with Afghan ministries and local companies. Sensitive to local tradition, she always wore the long, loose tunic and trousers known as a shalwar kameez and covered her hair with a large scarf. ''I've seen few people among Afghan and Muslim people like her,'' said a man who worked with her who gave his name as Bakhtiar. ''She was very kind, very helpful, a lovely lady, a very respectful woman.''
Steve O'Connor, the communications director for DAI, who spent several days visiting her in Jalalabad this year, said he was struck by her commitment. ''She was a very quiet, very dignified, completely committed development professional,'' he said. ''She was very thoughtful, very understanding, very attuned to the local culture and her Afghan counterparts; she worked mostly with men, who respected her enormously.''
Brought up on the remote Isle of Lewis in Scotland, Ms. Norgrove grew up on a farm and attended a tiny rural school. Her parents were similarly enthusiastic about developing countries, taking the family on five-week trips to such places every other year.
The four Italian soldiers killed Saturday were with the Seventh Regiment, Alpini mountain corps, and were normally stationed in Belluno, Italy, said a Defense Ministry spokesman, Gen. Massimo Fogari. Defense Minister Ignazio La Russa said that after the explosion went off, rebels engaged the convoy in a firefight that lasted about half an hour.
Italy has about 3,500 military personnel in Afghanistan, and the bombing raised the country's total deaths to 34 since the beginning of combat operations.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Linda Norgrove 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (90%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (90%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (90%); HOSTAGE TAKING (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (75%); ARMED FORCES (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (57%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (93%); JALALABAD, AFGHANISTAN (79%) AFGHANISTAN (97%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SCOTLAND (91%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2010



238 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; BEHIND THE WHEEL 2011 SCION TC; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1224 words

HEADLINE: A Canvas You Can Paint With Cash

BYLINE: By JONATHAN SCHULTZ

 BODY:
THE road to cheap automotive thrills is pockmarked with caveats and compromises. Manufacturers seeking customers for budget-performance cars will mate an eager engine to a laterally stiff chassis, only to imbue the surrounding sheet metal with the charisma of a gym locker. In other cases, a deceptively stout steering wheel might engage the rack and pinion with all the exuberance of a limp handshake.
It is a rare car that blends performance, price and aesthetics in optimal measure -- a formula many automakers aspire to, but few accomplish.
Scion, Toyota's youth-oriented subsidiary, has been pursuing this ideal since the brand was born in 2003. Though perhaps best known for its small, breadbox-shaped xB wagon, Scion has long hitched its cheap-speed ambitions on the tC. 
The two-door tC offered a generous spread of standard features (panoramic glass moonroof, premium sound system, big alloy wheels), spirited if not scorching performance and a sporty if not outright pretty silhouette for around $18,000.
Sales outpaced expectations. Jack Hollis, Scion's brand manager, says 310,000 tC's are zipping along American roads. However, in 2006, a polarizing redesign of the xB, coupled with the economy's developing agita -- which disproportionately affected Scion because it claims the youngest median-age buyer in the United States -- put the brand in a swoon from which it still hasn't recovered.
The revamped tC is the company's first product-led attempt to end this slide. It will be followed next spring by the iQ, a microcar sold in Japan and Europe as a Toyota model.
From a value standpoint, the 2011 tC arrives in open water. Priced at $18,995 with a 6-speed manual transmission or $19,995 with a 6-speed automatic, the car comes with 18-inch wheels, a 300-watt, 8-speaker Pioneer sound system, the gorgeous moonroof, 4-wheel disc brakes, traction control and, crucially, 180 horsepower -- a bump of 19 from the outgoing model. Competitors may try, but none offers such a robust set of standard features for the price.
So the tC continues the outgoing model's value proposition by offering more equipment and improved performance with a fairly negligible price increase. A dubious development, however, is the car's unsettled new shape. Students of budget performance might glimpse a circa-1990 Audi Quattro Coupe in the boxy profile, especially when outfitted with a rear lid spoiler ($395 extra). Slab-straight metal between the axles evokes the drag-strip sleeper Chevrolet Cobalt SS, and the tall deck harks back to the sublime Acura RSX.
The issue here is that those cars are not made anymore. Like a Cliffs Notes of cheap-speed-design tropes, the tC synthesizes two decades of tuner specials and hot-hatch cliches into a vague study of surface grooves and fender flares. The results are not bad, but they are awfully plain.
Stylistic shortcomings, however, should not trouble the tC faithful. As with the first-generation xB, the tC is regarded by its fervent fans as a blank canvas, encouraging a visit to the Toyota Racing Development catalog of exterior accessories and performance bits. This, along with the thriving Scion aftermarket, is where many tC owners will turn to impart the distinctiveness that the brand's Southern California design studios omitted, willfully or unwittingly, from the Gen-2 car.
Fitted in various combinations of T.R.D. tackle, a group of tC's was recently at my disposal at a Scion press event in the Hudson Valley of New York. I began with the most factory-standard automatic model, which, sitting on aggressive stock 18-inch tires, nonetheless looked as if at least one T.R.D. option box had been ticked. A walk-around revealed a chrome exhaust tip and racy lower-bumper sculpturing, both welcome signs.
Inside, the dashboard plastics reflect a fastidiousness uncommon even in Toyota products, with a dimpled effect akin to a golf ball enveloping the center instrumentation, offset by a raked surface atop the dash and smoother textures at the glovebox level. The thick steering wheel, which tilts and telescopes, exudes more purposefulness than any you'll find this side of a $24,000 Volkswagen GTI -- and the sporting pretensions, I soon learned, were not bluster.
That said, bluster thrives in the lowest revs of the engine, a 2.5-liter 4-cylinder. From a stop, with the accelerator pinned to the floor, the exhaust caterwauls like a wet-vac with little immediate forward movement to show for it. But in its midrange of 3,500 to 5,500 r.p.m., the car alters its comportment beyond mere acceleration. Steering feel, which is finger-touch-light at low speed, smartly tightens; the exhaust note focuses its once-feral protest into a pleasingly agitated churn.
On twisting onetime carriage roads above the Hudson Palisades, the automatic transmission compliantly held its gear when entering turns much faster than the posted limits, and the wheels stayed planted when exiting an apex. This chassis -- shared only with a distant Toyota Europe relative, the Avensis sedan -- can be shaken, but only at the driver's unambiguous command.
With 0-to-60 m.p.h. acceleration in 8.2 seconds, according to Toyota, the automatic tC cedes the sprint advantage to the manual, which achieves the feat in 7.6 seconds. The economy rating is 23 miles per gallon in town, 31 on the highway.
Sight lines from the well-bolstered driver's seat are fantastic, an accomplishment given the wide rear roof pillars, which somehow do not impede over-the-shoulder visibility to the rear. People in the two rear buckets will appreciate the roofline's forgiving slope, though taller rear passengers may find that using the 10-degree recline feature puts their heads against the rear glass.
I switched into a manual car festooned with a la carte T.R.D. features like front and rear sway bars ($550), an enhanced brake package ($1,675), low-profile 235/35/19 tires on 19-inch alloy wheels with special lugs ($2,199) and a performance exhaust system ($699). All told, that was $5,123 in go-fast gear.
Naturally, the manual afforded a more tactile drive than the auto, despite clutch-pedal action dialed to a toddler's leg strength. Yet all the performance upgrades did not unleash some hitherto dormant beast. The brakes bit down a little harder, the suspension felt somewhat more taut over dips and rolls, the exhaust note more readily fell into key. But the cash outlay for these subtle benefits would place the tC in the schoolyard of some formidable but not-so-cheap speedsters, including the GTI at $24,414 and the Honda Civic Si at $22,955, not to mention two tarmac bullies: the blistering $24,090 Mazdaspeed 3 and the $26,215 Subaru Impreza WRX. Despite its virtues, a tC cannot hang with this bunch.
Rather than develop an inferiority complex, the driver should revel in the standard tC's advantages over arrivistes like the Kia Forte Koup, which, despite almost matching its horsepower, getting better mileage and undercutting its price, doesn't put the dynamic pieces together as well.
Scion's most devout customers will muddle the tC's value case with options-list sprees at the dealer and on the Internet. Shoppers who resist the T.R.D. siren call will get a well-equipped, engaging daily driver that may not turn heads, but ticks virtually every other box.
INSIDE TRACK: A well-balanced stock requiring no additional ingredients.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PARTY MIX: Scion hopes a new version of its tC will lure young customers back to its showrooms. (AU1)
 FEELING GOOD: Rich textures elevate the interior of the tC. (AU4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); BRANDING (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); EUROPE (75%); JAPAN (70%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2010



239 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1241 words

HEADLINE: As Hanoi Marks 1,000th Birthday, Some Are Cynical

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS

 BODY:
HANOI, Vietnam -- A musical refrain blared from a loudspeaker as this weekend began -- ''Hanoi, Hanoi, Hanoi'' -- and on the sidewalk below, Nguyen Thi Thuy was selling red heart-shaped decals printed with the gold star of Vietnam's flag.
''I've been waiting for this day for a long time,'' said Ms. Thuy, a 20-year-old college student, who had pasted one of the decals on her cheek. ''This day only comes once every thousand years.''
With parades and concerts and flamboyant propaganda kitsch, Hanoi is celebrating its 1,000th anniversary on Sunday, and much of city life has stopped to make way for it. 
Ms. Thuy was selling her decals at Hoan Kiem Lake, in the heart of old Hanoi, for 10,000 dong, or about 50 cents, after buying them for 5,000 dong each. ''Yes, capitalism,'' she cried, delighted at the thought.
High above her on the wall of the central post office, the country's Communist patron, Ho Chi Minh, looked down at her from a poster that read: ''Live, fight, work, study according to the example of the great Uncle Ho.''
The dissonance was emblematic of Hanoi today, a Communist capital hurrying into a more market-driven future -- bigger, faster, noisier than ever, grasping for a new identity as it embraces the modern world.
Like most of their countrymen, few Hanoians, absorbed in getting and spending, live their lives to the rhythms of the patriotic marching tunes that filled the air last week.
But in the symbolism of the celebration, the Communist Party ruled supreme, just three months before a once-every-five-years party congress, at the pinnacle of a history that includes royalty and feudalism as well as revolution.
Red flags with their single gold stars filled the streets, and banners celebrating the city's 1,000 years of history were trumped by others that declared, ''The Vietnamese Communist Party will live forever!''
In the 35 years since the end of the war, both the nation and the party have evolved, moving from a failed experiment in doctrinaire communist economics to the tumultuous capitalism of today.
While loosening the economic reins, the party has kept a tight grip on political control, much as China's party has done.
The pervasive propaganda of the anniversary contrasts with the strict controls it places on a free press. Limits on speech have intensified as the party seeks to manage discussion ahead of its congress in January.
A target of American bombing in the 1960s and 1970s, then a moribund postwar cityscape of poverty and rationing, Hanoi is now experiencing some of the ills of urbanization -- overcrowding, traffic jams, pollution -- more quickly than its benefits.
Its population is more than six million, with some of the most expensive and most densely populated real estate in the world.
For some people here, weary of propaganda and cynical about the country's leaders, the gaudy and expensive celebrations were an occasion for discontent.
''I keep asking myself, a thousand years of what?'' said the writer Vo Thi Hao in a widely quoted essay. ''The whole country is flooded with flags, but people remain poor, and corruption is widespread along with many other social evils.''
Vietnam's economy has grown significantly since postwar controls were loosened. In a country overview, the World Bank calls the country's poverty reduction and economic achievements ''one of the most spectacular success stories'' in development.
Corruption is slowing this progress, which has also brought with it many of the social problems of an open, fluid society.
Nguyen Qui Duc, who owns a bar and art gallery, reflected on what it means to be a Hanoian.
''Tacky things, bad taste, expensive decorations,'' he said. ''But what is it we are celebrating? Taoism, Confucianism, communism, capitalism -- Hanoi has everything, but it adds up to nothing.'' As an urban landscape, though, Hanoi seems mostly to be succeeding, where other Asian cities have failed, in integrating development with preservation.
Zoning laws have maintained the low-rise heart of the city with its trees and broad sidewalks. Most development has been shifted to the western suburbs.
Many of the elegant villas of the old French quarter have been preserved, and the bustling Ancient Quarter, choked with tourists and commerce, survives. The area around Hoan Kiem Lake has so far resisted development.
''I very strongly believe that everything that has happened in the inner area has been good,'' said Lawrie Wilson, an Australian urban planner who has worked in Vietnam since the early 1990s.
But it is a rule of thumb, he said, that for a city this size roads should cover 15 percent of land space. In Hanoi, the figure is just 5 percent, and traffic has begun to choke the city.
The buzz of motorbikes and the constant beep-beep-beeping of their horns are a jarring backdrop to life in Hanoi even if, after a while, they fade into white noise.
It is sometimes said that traffic patterns reflect the character of a nation, and on Hanoi's chaotic streets, no one gives ground, no one compromises. Everyone single-mindedly pursues his or her own route. ''The gridlock happens all the time, everywhere, all day and all night,'' Mr. Wilson said.
''And if it rains, there is an unwritten law here that you totally ignore traffic laws,'' he added. ''You drive up on the footpath, you drive through public parks and you just do what you like.'' In recent weeks, the gridlock has intensified, and complaints have multiplied during last-minute construction and cleanups for the anniversary.
As people from the countryside came by the busload to view the spectacle, many residents fled.
Others embraced the occasion, like Nguyen Thi Hoa, 28, a journalist, who posed for pictures in her wedding dress recently near Ho Chi Minh's mausoleum.
''I chose this date because I want to link our wedding to the anniversary,'' she said. But so many other people had the same idea, she said, that she had had to postpone her ceremony.
On Thursday, on roads closed to traffic, tens of thousands of marchers rehearsed the Sunday parade, winding through the streets like a living propaganda poster of socialist unity.
There were workers in blue uniforms and bureaucrats in neckties; students in their caps and gowns along with peasants, journalists and medical workers; overseas Vietnamese, ethnic minorities and in-line skaters.
A group of people dressed as Buddhist monks, Roman Catholic nuns and Muslims in skullcaps marched together carrying little red flags with the Communist hammer and sickle. Aging veterans of Vietnam's wars, the workhorses of Communist Party propaganda, paraded with rows of medals on their chests.
Basking in the occasion, Vu Trong Thuan, 80, a former captain in the army medical corps, put on his uniform, a little loose at the neck, to stroll through the decorated streets with his nieces.
He was proud, he said, to have defended his city against the armies of France and the United States, but admitted to nostalgia for the old Hanoi, poorer but more intimate.
''I miss eating ice cream on Trang Tien Street,'' he said. ''I miss the sound of the electric train.''
As the city's modernization picks up pace, it seems, the pace of nostalgia accelerates with it.
Duc Duy, an 18-year-old economics student, wears an ''I (heart) Hanoi'' T-shirt, and says he means it. But he too said that he was nostalgic for the quieter city of his very recent childhood.
''I would love to see Hanoi be like the way it was a few years ago, when it was clean,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Vietnamese flags decorated the homes and shops of Hanoi's old quarter ahead of Sunday's celebration of a millennium, in a city rushing to modernize.
 Students near Ho Chi Minh's mausoleum in Hanoi. Communists have kept a tight grip on political control in Vietnam. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JUSTIN MOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANNIVERSARIES (89%); CITY LIFE (74%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (69%); CITIES (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); URBANIZATION (60%); BOMBINGS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HANOI, VIETNAM (93%) VIET NAM (94%); VIETNAM (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2010



240 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 601 words

HEADLINE: Recession Theater

BYLINE: By ANN HOOD. 
Ann Hood is the author, most recently, of ''The Red Thread.''

 BODY:
Providence, R.I.
''THAT dark summer,'' said Ed Shea, of the economic collapse. ''I thought for the first time, 'Maybe this won't last.''' Ed's Second Story Theater company had gone from selling out shows before the recession to struggling to fill seats.
Up until then, Ed had enjoyed huge success. I was in the audience on one of Second Story's first nights, in 2001. Before the show, Ed had come out onstage, grinning. ''If you like what you see,'' he said, ''tell four friends.'' There was no air-conditioning, the sound of sirens and motorcycles came through the open windows -- but something extraordinary went on in that room, that elusive electricity that live theater should create but often doesn't. 
When the show was over, I went out and told four friends. And apparently so did everyone else in the audience. Second Story tickets became one of the hottest commodities in an already crowded theater scene in the Providence area.
The story of how Ed Shea, who barely graduated from high school in nearby Portsmouth, got to run his own theater company is worthy of its own play. A scruffily handsome 52-year-old with a shaved head and devilish blue eyes, Ed calls himself an idiot savant. ''I didn't know what a metaphor was until I was 30,'' he admitted. After performing in a few high school plays, he worked as a waiter, saving up money to move to New York and become an actor. But when he saw a production in Newport, he realized good theater was happening locally.
By age 21, Ed helped open the first Second Story Theater above a bar on Newport's Long Wharf. For four years, he put on plays in that smoke-filled loft, charging $3 a ticket to audiences drinking beer from Harry's downstairs. Later on, he joined the ensemble of Trinity Rep, Rhode Island's grande dame theater, and directed at the Rhode Island Shakespeare Company.
Despite his success, Ed was embarrassed that he didn't have a college degree, and in the fall of 1996, at 38 years old, he entered Brown as a freshman. When his comparative literature professor wrote on his A+ paper about ''The Wide Sargasso Sea'' that it was the best close reading of a text he'd ever read, Ed sat in his car and cried. ''I realized for the first time that I was smart,'' he told me.
After his time at Brown, he had an epiphany: he had to start another theater company. So he rented a 5,000-square-foot space over a restaurant in Warren. Second Story plays sold out and often went into extended runs. Within two years, he owned the building. Then the recession hit in 2007.
Fund-raising letters, extra seasonal plays, private donors and grants kept the Second Story afloat, raising almost $1 million dollars for repairs, renovations and the small stipends paid to the actors. But attendance dropped 20 percent. Ed first tried putting on Depression-era plays, which turned out not to be a great idea. ''People are living it,'' he told me. ''They don't want to watch it too.'' Tough intellectual and avant-garde plays didn't sell tickets either. ''They just didn't want to see them,'' he said.
The 2010-2011 season, he decided, would be ''A Year of Comedy,'' featuring ''funny plays that will help you forget your troubles'' like John Millington Synge's ''Playboy of the Western World.'' ''People are more willing to pay if they feel good after seeing the show,'' Ed explained. Then he added: ''Comedies represent the frame of mind I want to be in too.''
Still, the premiere of the season opener, ''Kimberly Akimbo,'' had an audience of fewer than 40. Ed remains hopeful, though, that those 40 people enjoyed themselves enough that they each told four friends.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MATT DORFMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (92%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); THEATER COMPANIES (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); MOTOR VEHICLES (69%); RESTAURANTS (64%); LITERATURE (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (93%); NEWPORT, RI, USA (90%) RHODE ISLAND, USA (93%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (72%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2010



241 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: Fee Dispute Hinders Plan For Reactor

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Constellation Energy said on Saturday that it had reached an impasse in negotiations for a federal loan guarantee to build a proposed third nuclear reactor at its Calvert Cliffs site near Washington.
The decision would appear to kill the project unless Congress or the White House steps in. Constellation said in a letter to the Energy Department that the Office of Management and Budget was seeking a fee of $880 million on a guarantee of about $7.6 billion, which it said would doom the project, ''or the economics of any nuclear project, for that matter.''
The fee is to compensate taxpayers for the risk of default. The company argues that because the plant's model is being proven in Finland, France and China, and because it has a strong partner, Electricite de France, the fee should be 1 to 2 percent. 
The project had once been hailed as a cornerstone of a nuclear power renaissance.
In 2005, President George W. Bush spoke at Calvert Cliffs, the first presidential visit to a nuclear plant in 30 years. ''It is time for this country to start building nuclear power plants again,'' he said. The last successful groundbreaking for a nuclear reactor in the United States was in 1973.
The federal government authorized a loan guarantee program in 2005 intended to spur nuclear power development, and Congress agreed to finance it in 2007. So far, however, only one guarantee has been issued, for two new units at the Southern Company's Vogtle plant, near Waynesboro, Ga.
Ground has been broken there, and also for two more reactors across the Savannah River in South Carolina, a project that is proceeding without loan guarantees. But a variety of utilities around the country have stepped back from plans to build reactors.
Constellation, which serves a large area of Maryland and owns generating plants nationwide, announced its decision Saturday after the impasse was reported by The Washington Post.
On Saturday, James L. Connaughton, executive vice president of Constellation and an environmental official in the Bush White House, stopped short of saying the project was dead. ''We were in the middle of discussions,'' he said.
The government had proposed a lower fee if Constellation agreed to buy three-quarters of the power and Constellation and EDF guaranteed completion of the plant, said Mr. Connaughton, but he said those conditions were too onerous.
The site in question is 40 miles south of the District of Columbia where Baltimore Gas & Electric, a predecessor to Constellation, finished two reactors in the 1970s. They remain in operation.
In a statement, EDF said it was ''extremely disappointed and shocked to learn that Constellation has unilaterally decided to withdraw from the Calvert Cliffs 3 project.'' It added, ''We were at the finish line with the Department of Energy and were making significant progress.''
Constellation said EDF would have to decide whether to proceed alone, although by law it needs an American partner. The companies had hoped to build a series of identical reactors around the United States, with local partners.
A spokeswoman for the Energy Department said they were surprised by Constellation's announcement.
Constellation had been hinting for weeks that it had reservations. In September, Mayo Shattuck, the company's chief executive, speaking at a Chamber of Commerce luncheon in Washington, referred to the differences in economics between Calvert Cliffs and the Vogtle plant.
The Georgia plant, he said, falls under traditional regulations that pass the costs of construction on to power customers; Calvert Cliffs, he said, was in a ''merchant'' environment, where companies build at their own risk, and sell power at market rates.
Experts have pointed out that the current economic climate is not favorable to nuclear construction, in part because the price of natural gas is so low.
Congress has authorized loan guarantees of up to $18.5 billion for new reactors, with $8.3 billion now earmarked for Vogtle. President Obama has proposed an additional $36 billion. The sums are simply guarantees by the government to repay lenders if the builder cannot do so.
Their cost to the Treasury is unclear; if the reactors are built as planned and run profitably, the cost would be zero. In fact, the Treasury could make a profit on fees paid by the borrowers. While the negotiations are secret, Constellation has been complaining for months that the fee Treasury sought was too high.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR ENERGY (91%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (91%); POWER PLANTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); BUDGETS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%)

COMPANY: SOUTHERN CO (84%); ELECTRICITE DE FRANCE SA (EDF) (74%); WASHINGTON POST CO (53%); BALTIMORE GAS & ELECTRIC CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (57%)

TICKER: SO (NYSE) (84%); EDF (PAR) (74%); WPO (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (84%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (84%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (84%); SIC8731 COMMERCIAL PHYSICAL & BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH (74%); SIC5063 ELECTRICAL APPARATUS & EQUIPMENT (74%); SIC4939 COMBINATION UTILITIES, NEC (74%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (53%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (53%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (51%)

PERSON: JAMES CONNAUGHTON (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (53%) MARYLAND, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); FRANCE (71%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2010



242 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 622 words

HEADLINE: Preventing Credit Score Dings

BYLINE: By LYNNLEY BROWNING

 BODY:
IF you're looking to refinance or buy a home, potential lenders and mortgage brokers will be checking your credit scores. And if those scores are being verified, chances are they are going down.
Yes, you read that correctly. Each time a credit score is pulled from one of the three credit bureaus as part of a loan application, it can decline by as much as 20 points, or more. Call it the Great Credit-Score Ding.
Despite the flood of news on how credit scores are calculated and used, few buyers know this goes on -- or what to do about it. 
''Most consumers are unaware that this happens,'' said Paul Stephens, the director of policy and advocacy for Privacy Rights Clearinghouse, a consumer advocacy group in San Diego.
The term ''credit score'' typically refers to your FICO score, a figure ranging from 300 to 850 that is based on algorithms provided by FICO.
FICO sells the algorithms to the three credit bureaus -- Equifax, Experian and TransUnion -- which each then use different formulas to compute a consumer's creditworthiness.
Those with high credit scores are most likely to obtain the most favorable interest rates. The average score for mortgage borrowers is 750, according to the Federal Housing Finance Agency, which oversees Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the government-sponsored companies that set underwriting standards.
It is the ''hard pull'' inquiry -- in which lenders and brokers learn that you are in need of money, and check your credit in order to process your application -- that can most damage your score.
Credit bureaus can choose to knock 20 points or more from your FICO score each time you authorize a lender to check it, said Rod Griffin, the public education director at Experian.
At TransUnion, the average ding for a ''hard pull'' is five points, according to Steven R. Katz, the bureau's senior director of corporate communications.
While credit inquiries stay on a borrower's credit report for two years, their impact on FICO scores generally lasts only a year, said Craig H. Watts, the public affairs director of FICO.
So how can borrowers minimize the blow, especially those shopping for the best mortgage rates and working with more than one lender or broker?
If all the requests are made within a short time, they usually will count as only one check.
Experian and TransUnion say they treat all credit score checks conducted as part of a mortgage application as one check, if made in 14 to 30 days, depending on which FICO algorithm they use. Equifax generally treats credit checks as a single request if made within 30 days, according to the company's spokeswoman, Jennifer Costello.
That time frame may leave home buyers feeling rushed, but they should not in any case drag out the process over several months in hopes that rates will fall further.
''You've basically got 15 days to go to various lenders and get quotes and kind of go hog-wild,'' said Patrick Ritchie, the author of ''The Credit Road Map'' (Success Road Map Press, 2007).
Meanwhile, borrowers who check their own credit scores through a less invasive ''soft pull,'' to get an estimate of creditworthiness and of loan rates, do not see their scores go down. You can ask lenders to do a soft pull before deciding which loan to go with, at which point a formal inquiry is made.
But it's best not to apply for credit cards or other new loans when applying for a mortgage, because the ''hard pulls'' for all those applications count as separate checks.
Mr. Griffin of Experian argues that solid borrowers shouldn't worry about the impact of credit checks of any kind. But he acknowledged that borrowers considered riskier, in part because of a low credit score, may find their scores declining enough to cause denial of their mortgage applications.

GRAPHIC: CHART: INDEX FOR ADJUSTABLE RATE MORTGAGES: 1-year Treasury rate (Source: HSH Associates) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER CREDIT REPORTING (91%); CREDIT BUREAUS (91%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); LOAN BROKERS (89%); MORTGAGE RATES (78%); CREDIT REGULATION (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EXECUTIVES (74%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (74%); CONSUMER LAW (69%)

COMPANY: FAIR ISAAC CORP (FICO) (92%); EQUIFAX INC (91%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (83%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (82%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY (55%)

TICKER: FICO (NYSE) (92%); EFX (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (92%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (92%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (91%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (83%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (83%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2010



243 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1211 words

HEADLINE: Anatomy of an Uprising

BYLINE: By ALAN BRINKLEY. 
Alan Brinkley is the Allan Nevins professor of history at Columbia and the author, most recently, of ''The Publisher: Henry Luce and His American Century.''

 BODY:
GIVE US LIBERTY
A Tea Party Manifesto
By Dick Armey and Matt Kibbe
Illustrated. 265 pp. William Morrow/HarperCollins Publishers. $19.99
BOILING MAD
Inside Tea Party America
By Kate Zernike
Illustrated. 243 pp. Times Books/Henry Holt & Company. $25
THE WHITES OF THEIR EYES
The Tea Party's Revolution and the Battle Over American History
By Jill Lepore
207 pp. Princeton University Press. $19.95 
Trying to describe the ideas of the Tea Party movement is a bit like a blind man trying to describe the elephant. The movement, like the elephant, exists. But no one, not even the Tea Partiers themselves, can seem to get hands around the whole of it. Jonathan Raban, who attended the first National Tea Party Convention and wrote about it in The New York Review of Books, was struck by how little agreement there was among ''members'' as they talked about their grievances and aspirations. And yet the Tea Party uprising is the most visible and energized political phenomenon of the last year. Whether it will remain a viable movement remains to be seen, but it shows no sign yet of running out of steam.
What lies behind the Tea Party movement? Some of it is purely partisan. It has close ties to the Republican Party. It is opportunistically promoted by Fox News. One of its best-known leaders is Dick Armey, former Republican majority leader in the House of Representatives, who spent much of the last year or so promoting the new movement through FreedomWorks, an organization he helped to create. Its program is presented in ''Give Us Liberty,'' by Armey and the group's president, Matt Kibbe. It is a simple set of goals, consistent with those professed by Republicans over the last 25 years: ''lower taxes, less government, more freedom.'' But if that were all there were to the Tea Partiers, they would be indistinguishable from the Republican Party itself.
Kate Zernike, a national correspondent for The New York Times, has interviewed a number of Tea Partiers in an effort to understand what they believe and what they want. Her book, ''Boiling Mad: Inside Tea Party America,'' is an anecdotal description of the movement, supplemented by an April 2010 New York Times/CBS News poll (already a generation away from the fast-moving character of the insurgents). Her interviews, too few to be of any statistical significance, are nevertheless illuminating as a picture of how different some Tea Partiers are from the Republican establishment's view of the movement.
At some points, Armey describes the Tea Partiers as loyal Republicans who do not want to divide the party. At others, he talks about a ''hostile takeover,'' although he is not clear about what that would mean. Zernike's interviews reveal that some of the most outspoken Tea Partiers are disgusted with both major parties. They are enraged by the fecklessness of Wall Street (and the huge bailout in 2008). They argue that cutting government costs (without raising taxes) is the only way to reduce the frightening deficit. They insist that almost everyone in power is corrupt and out of touch with the public. And they believe that the Constitution has been perverted by liberal judges and academics and the political world in general -- stretching its meaning well beyond what the founders intended. The people Zernike interviewed rarely expressed bigotry, prejudice or racism, but there are many self-identified Tea Partiers who detest immigration and fear the prospect of an America in which white people will be a minority. Older white men, who seem to constitute the majority of the movement, often rally around the cry ''Take Back Our Country.'' There is little doubt as to whom they wish to take the country back from.
Jill Lepore, a historian of the American Revolution and a staff writer at The New Yorker, has written a brief but valuable book, ''The Whites of Their Eyes: The Tea Party's Revolution and the Battle Over American History,'' which combines her own interviews with Tea Partiers (mostly from her home state, Massachusetts) and her deep knowledge of the founders and of their view of the Constitution. The architects of the Constitution, she makes clear, did not agree about what it meant. Nor did they believe that the Constitution would or should be the final word on the character of the nation and the government. It was the product of much compromise, and few were satisfied with all its parts.
There were enormous omissions -- among them the failure to define citizenship, the lack of a clear definition of suffrage, the evasion of most of the issues connected to African-Americans and Native Americans. Jefferson insisted that ''laws and institutions must go hand in hand with the progress of the human mind.'' Madison asked in Federalist 14, ''Is it not the glory of the people of America, that, whilst they have paid a decent regard to the opinions of former times and other nations, they have not suffered a blind veneration for antiquity, for custom, or for names, to overrule the suggestions of their own good sense, the knowledge of their own situation, and the lessons of their own experience?'' The reality of the creation of the Constitution is a far cry from the idea that it instituted immutable limits to what government could do.
Listening to the many and diverse demands and ideas that the Tea Partiers express in their rallies, pamphlets and oratory does relatively little to explain why so many Americans are so angry. After all, most of those railing against government deficits (mostly created by Reagan and Bush tax cuts), protesting against taxes (the rates on the top income bracket are lower than at any time since before World War II, with the exception of a brief period two decades ago), and complaining about violations of the Constitution were, only a few years ago, much less concerned about these and many other issues that now loom so large in their vision of the future. Without the economic crisis, these same issues would remain unaddressed. Similar outbreaks of outrage and blame have accompanied most major economic crises over the last century and more. The populist movement during the adversities of the 1890s spawned the People's Party, a powerful but short-lived organization based on hostility to corporate malfeasance and the gold standard. The Great Depression produced multiple movements that reviled the power of bankers and the concentration of wealth. In both cases, as in our own time, the movements soon became immersed in innumerable other grievances and prejudices.
We should not be surprised that so many Americans are angry. Almost four decades of growing inequality have left most of them no better off than they were in 1970, and many worse off. The recklessness and greed of much of the financial world -- the principal causes of the crisis -- have done far more damage than taxes or the deficit. The corruption and dysfunction of Congress and much of the rest of the government have disillusioned many. Everyone should be angry about these injustices, even if no one has proposed a workable solution to them. The Tea Partiers are right to be angry. But the objects of their outcries -- taxes, deficits, immigration and supposed violations of the Constitution -- are of far less consequence than the great failures that plague the nation.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (92%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (74%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); TAKEOVERS (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (64%); HISTORY (56%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (82%); HARPERCOLLINS PUBLISHERS INC (58%); PA ACQUISITION CORP (58%); HENRY HOLT & CO PUBLISHING (58%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (57%)

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (82%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (58%); SIC5947 GIFT, NOVELTY, & SOUVENIR SHOPS (58%); SIC2771 GREETING CARD PUBLISHERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: Give Us Liberty: A Tea Party Manifesto (Book); Boiling Mad: Inside Tea Party America (Book); Whites of Their Eyes: The Tea Partys Revolution and the Battle Over American History, The (Book)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2010



244 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 904 words

HEADLINE: I Can Afford Higher Taxes. But They'll Make Me Work Less.

BYLINE: By N. GREGORY MANKIW. 
N. Gregory Mankiw is a professor of economics at Harvard. He was an adviser to President George W. Bush.

 BODY:
AN important issue dividing the political parties is whether to raise taxes on those earning more than $250,000 a year. Democrats say these taxpayers can afford to chip in a bit more. Republicans say raising taxes on those who already face the highest marginal tax rates will hurt the economy.
So I thought it might be useful to do a case study on one of these high-income taxpayers. Fortunately, I have one handy: me. 
As a professor at Harvard and the author of some popular textbooks, I am comfortably in the income range that would be hit by this tax increase. I have been thinking -- narcissistically, to be sure -- about how higher taxes would affect me. Maybe these thoughts can shed some light on some of the broader policy issues.
First, I have to acknowledge that the Democrats are right about one thing: I can afford to pay more in taxes. My income is not in the same league as superstar actors and hedge fund managers, but I have been very lucky nonetheless. Unlike many other Americans, I don't have trouble making ends meet.
Indeed, I could go so far as to say I am almost completely sated. One reason is that I don't aspire for much more than a typical upper-middle-class lifestyle. I don't fly around on a private jet. I have little desire to own a yacht or a Ferrari. I own only one home, in which I have lived since 1987. Paying an extra few percent in taxes wouldn't create a lot of hardship.
Nonetheless, as Republicans emphasize, taxes influence the decisions I make. I am regularly offered opportunities to earn extra money. It could be by talking to a business group, consulting on a legal case, giving a guest lecture, teaching summer school or writing an article. I turn down most but accept a few.
And I acknowledge that my motives in taking on extra work are partly mercenary. I don't want to move to a bigger house or buy that Ferrari, but I hope to put some money aside for my three children. They will never lead lives of leisure, but I hope they won't have to struggle to find down payments to buy their own homes or to send their kids to college.
Suppose that some editor offered me $1,000 to write an article. If there were no taxes of any kind, this $1,000 of income would translate into $1,000 in extra saving. If I invested it in the stock of a company that earned, say, 8 percent a year on its capital, then 30 years from now, when I pass on, my children would inherit about $10,000. That is simply the miracle of compounding.
Now let's put taxes into the calculus. First, assuming that the Bush tax cuts expire, I would pay 39.6 percent in federal income taxes on that extra income. Beyond that, the phaseout of deductions adds 1.2 percentage points to my effective marginal tax rate. I also pay Medicare tax, which the recent health care bill is raising to 3.8 percent, starting in 2013. And in Massachusetts, I pay 5.3 percent in state income taxes, part of which I get back as a federal deduction. Putting all those taxes together, that $1,000 of pretax income becomes only $523 of saving.
And that saving no longer earns 8 percent. First, the corporation in which I have invested pays a 35 percent corporate tax on its earnings. So I get only 5.2 percent in dividends and capital gains. Then, on that income, I pay taxes at the federal and state level. As a result, I earn about 4 percent after taxes, and the $523 in saving grows to $1,700 after 30 years.
Then, when my children inherit the money, the estate tax will kick in. The marginal estate tax rate is scheduled to go as high as 55 percent next year, but Congress may reduce it a bit. Most likely, when that $1,700 enters my estate, my kids will get, at most, $1,000 of it.
HERE'S the bottom line: Without any taxes, accepting that editor's assignment would have yielded my children an extra $10,000. With taxes, it yields only $1,000. In effect, once the entire tax system is taken into account, my family's marginal tax rate is about 90 percent. Is it any wonder that I turn down most of the money-making opportunities I am offered?
By contrast, without the tax increases advocated by the Obama administration, the numbers would look quite different. I would face a lower income tax rate, a lower Medicare tax rate, and no deduction phaseout or estate tax. Taking that writing assignment would yield my kids about $2,000. I would have twice the incentive to keep working.
Now you might not care if I supply less of my services to the marketplace -- although, because you are reading this article, you are one of my customers. But I bet there are some high-income taxpayers whose services you enjoy.
Maybe you are looking forward to a particular actor's next movie or a particular novelist's next book. Perhaps you wish that your favorite singer would have a concert near where you live. Or, someday, you may need treatment from a highly trained surgeon, or your child may need braces from the local orthodontist. Like me, these individuals respond to incentives. (Indeed, some studies report that high-income taxpayers are particularly responsive to taxes.) As they face higher tax rates, their services will be in shorter supply.
Reasonable people can disagree about whether and how much the government should redistribute income. And, to be sure, the looming budget deficits require hard choices about spending and taxes. But don't let anyone fool you into thinking that when the government taxes the rich, only the rich bear the burden.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID G. KLEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX INCREASES (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CHILDREN (86%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (76%); CELEBRITIES (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); WRITERS (75%); TEXTBOOKS (75%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (73%); CASE STUDIES (71%); HEDGE FUNDS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2010



245 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1676 words

HEADLINE: The Dollar Made Them Do It

BYLINE: By MARC SANTORA

 BODY:
IN boom times and bust, international buyers play an integral role in the Manhattan residential marketplace, stabilizing prices in lean years and driving demand when the market is ascendant. They make up an estimated 10 to 15 percent of all sales in the city almost every year, brokers say.
But while the number of foreign buyers largely stays the same, the players change. In the 1980s, it was the Japanese who came house-hunting in droves, while in the 1990s it was Middle Eastern investors flush with oil-profits cash or newly minted Russian tycoons who rose from the rubble of the fallen wall.
The last great influx of investment came from Europeans who rushed to take advantage of the record strength of the euro against the dollar in 2007. 
Foreigners are once again buying in Manhattan, energizing the still-fragile market. In recent months, according to brokers and developers, the money has been just as likely to come from South America or Mexico as Europe or the Middle East.
The dollar, more than anything else, drives international sales, and because it remains weak globally, New York is still a good deal for many buyers.
Jaime Gorozpe, the founder of an upscale travel agency in Mexico City, spends about 200 nights a year in hotel rooms, including 80 nights in New York City. So instead of paying more than $500 a night for a luxury hotel room in Manhattan every time he visited, he decided to invest in an apartment.
''It's better to have a small place of my own than a five-star hotel,'' he said as he walked through his newly purchased one-bedroom apartment in the Centurion at 33 West 56th Street, designed by Pei Partnership Architects. He talked about where he would place a favorite Eames chair, and where he would hang some paintings that he had bought at the Gagosian Gallery. Mr. Gorozpe, 38, also enthused about a major draw of the elegant building: it's within walking distance of Central Park.
''For me,'' he said, ''the park is New York City.''
In recent years, much of the new development in Midtown, whether large projects like the Setai Fifth Avenue, a 60-story hotel-condo, or smaller ones like the Centurion, with 48 apartments, has been directly marketed to foreigners. Centrally located iconic buildings like the Plaza also do well with this market.
Nearly half of the units in the Centurion -- ranging in price from nearly $2 million to $13 million -- have been sold, all but one to a foreign buyer, according to Kari Neering, an associate vice president of Rubenstein Public Relations, who is doing publicity for the building.
The area around the Centurion is known to brokers as the golden triangle, home to some of the city's most expensive hotels -- the Peninsula, the Four Seasons, the St. Regis -- and some of the properties that foreign buyers now find most desirable.
Native New Yorkers might prefer the brownstone streets of the West Village or Park Slope, but brokers say foreigners gravitate toward the amenities and convenience of shiny new apartment towers. With little construction on the horizon because of the difficulty developers have had securing financing, some overseas buyers are eager to get it while it lasts.
Midtown and the financial district are preferred neighborhoods. The hustle and bustle of Midtown in particular conforms with the image many have of the City That Never Sleeps. Proximity to Central Park, renowned restaurants and transportation is high on the wish lists of house-hunters from overseas.
Forces at play beyond American borders influence this market. Some countries have eased banking rules that regulate the transfer of currency, making transactions simpler. Many investors are also concerned about political instability in their own countries and view New York real estate as a safe haven.
''I think foreigners are coming back into the New York City market with a vengeance,'' said Khashy Eyn, the chief executive of the boutique brokerage Platinum Properties, which has opened an office in Paris to serve the New York market. Mr. Eyn says 80 percent of his business comes from overseas.
For Europeans, with the euro trading at 1.34 to the dollar, ''their money is worth 34 percent more now; it is a very safe bet for them,'' Mr. Eyn said.
Nevertheless, Antonio Cosentino, an associate broker at Corcoran, said that while the international money once chased New York, New York now chases the money.
Mr. Cosentino, who specializes in international sales, recalled a business trip to Italy in 2007. ''We would set up in a conference room at the Four Seasons in Milan for three days and from 8 in the morning until 10 that night we would have people coming in looking to make deals,'' he said. The tab for his airfare, hotel and local advertising were picked up by the developer of a Manhattan property. ''We didn't even have time for lunch.''
Last November, Mr. Cosentino went on a scouting trip to Shanghai.
''It was a disappointment,'' he said. While he loved the city, business was slow. ''There were two main obstacles,'' he said. ''The Chinese government does not allow currency exports over a certain amount, and for those who could get around those banking rules, there were concerns about getting a visa.''
Many foreigners, not just the Chinese, complain about the strict enforcement of visa regulations by the United States since Sept. 11, 2001.
China is one of the two markets that most interest Manhattan brokers. The other, India, also restricts the amount of money that can be taken out of the country.
While some wealthy Chinese and Indians have overseas bank accounts, many do not. Those without must find creative ways to put together the cash they need when they shop for properties in the United States. For instance, Mr. Cosentino says he has worked with Indian buyers who give five or six relatives $100,000 each to send out of the country -- the maximum allowed for an individual -- so they can make a down payment.
More and more, to reach potential clients, brokers and developers must rely on small networks of investors they have cultivated over the years rather than large trade shows or direct advertising in local markets.
''My brokers that focus on foreign buyers tend to hyperfocus on specific countries,'' said Pamela Liebman, the chief executive of the Corcoran Group. Whether it is going to London to meet with private bankers or to Rio to make contacts with brokers who could lead them to clients, she said direct engagement was key.
''I had one broker a couple of years ago move to Italy to work the whole Italian market,'' Ms. Liebman said.
One challenge for brokers and developers is convincing sometimes skeptical investors that Manhattan stands apart from the national real estate market while at the same time tamping down unrealistic expectations about the kinds of bargains that might be available.
''Some people think they are going to find properties going for 50 cents on the dollar in the New York market,'' said Amy Williamson, the vice president for sales at Prodigy Network, which specializes in international sales. ''That can be a problem.''
Daniela Sassoun, an associate broker at Corcoran whose focus is the South American market, said she recently received a call from someone who wanted ''a distressed property on Fifth Avenue going into foreclosure.''
''I was, like, let me know and I will buy it myself,'' she joked. ''Manhattan is not Phoenix.''
International buyers often need someone to actively manage the property, overseeing everything from renovations to renting.
Jason Feng, a general manager of a business in Taiwan, said he had worked with Ms. Williamson to buy a two-bedroom apartment in Chelsea for his daughter when she moved to New York in 2008.
''A good, patient agent makes the property purchasing process much more transparent, and thereby easier,'' he said, ''especially for a foreigner who is unfamiliar with the market.''
Mr. Feng later bought a second apartment, a one-bedroom in the financial district, as an investment. For two years, he said, Ms. Williamson has helped ensure that the place is rented out.
Ms. Sassoun, who often manages her clients' properties for no fee, finds that these days buyers are less interested in short-term investments. And, she said, because of the headache that securing financing has become, many buyers come armed with much more cash for down payments than in the past.
Recently, she added, there has been a surge of interest from Brazil and Venezuela, although for different reasons.
''In Brazil, it used to be very difficult to send money from a bank in Brazil to a bank in America,'' she said. As restrictions were eased, more Brazilians came to New York. It also does not hurt that the Brazilian real is trading at about 1.7 to the dollar.
And it helps that Manhattan real estate has remained stronger than in markets traditionally favored by South American buyers, especially Miami.
Nervousness over the political situation at home can also translate into a New York apartment.
''We see a lot of capital flight, especially from Venezuela,'' Ms. Williamson said. ''People are terrified of losing their savings.''
South Americans, she said, have a different standard for economic instability. ''You have to understand that for buyers coming from South America, this is not a volatile market,'' she said.
Although international buyers today may come from far-flung corners, they often arrive with a deep knowledge of Manhattan -- even, for instance, seeking an apartment on a certain street or near a favored restaurant.
''As a foreigner,'' Mr. Gorozpe said, ''you want to be at the heart of it all. For me, there is no better place to be.''
Correction: October 17, 2010, Sunday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: Because of an editing error, an article last Sunday about foreign buyers investing in New York real estate misstated the name of the firm that designed the Centurion in Midtown Manhattan, where a businessman from Mexico City bought a one-bedroom apartment. It is Pei Partnership Architects, not Pei Partnership Associates with I. M. Pei.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A PLACE IN THE CITY: Amy Williamson shows a buyer from Europe an $18.5 million town house at 14 East 95th Street. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
NO MORE HOTELS: Jaime Gorozpe of Mexico City in his other home, the Centurion on West 56th. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (RE8) DRAWINGS (DRAWING BY MARGARET RIEGEL) (RE1)
 DRAWING (RE8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); PAINTING (75%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (75%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (73%); EURO (70%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (66%); TRAVEL AGENTS (51%)

COMPANY: GAGOSIAN GALLERY (64%); AQUANTIVE INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS453920 ART DEALERS (64%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (52%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (52%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (52%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (52%)

PERSON: LARRY GAGOSIAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (87%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (93%); MIDDLE EAST (88%); EUROPE (87%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2010



246 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ESSAY; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: A Stimulus Plan, Disguised as Censorship

BYLINE: By JOHN SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
I'VE been thinking a lot lately about ''Operation Dark Heart.''
It is an Afghan war memoir by Anthony A. Shaffer, a former officer with the Defense Intelligence Agency. And it's also the name of my secret plan to revive the floundering economy. Bear with me on this.
This is the book that the Pentagon made into a best seller. The manuscript passed muster by Army reviewers with some redactions, and made its way toward publication at the end of August. But late in the game, the Defense Intelligence Agency and other espionage agencies cried whoa -- the book still had more than 200 passages that, officials said, could harm national security. 
Faced with a serious problem, the government came up with a truly bold solution: rounding up the books and destroying them. The Pentagon paid the publisher, St. Martin's Press, $47,300 for 10,000 copies of the first run that were still in the warehouse. Redacted copies have been printed since.
Here's why this is visionary and not simply stupid. Getting rid of a lot of books may sound uncomfortably like censorship -- a kinder, gentler version of that preacher in Florida threatening to burn copies of the Koran. While destroying a holy book is a desecration, buying 10,000 copies of a war memoir is economic stimulus.
Publishers are ecstatic over the first good news they've heard in years. Over at Twelve, part of the Hachette Book Group and a rival of St. Martin's, the publisher, Susan Lehman, and the associate publisher, Cary Goldstein, conferenced me in via speakerphone to say that they saw the government's move not just as a stimulus, but as an incentive.
''We're going to be publishing all kinds of national security secrets,'' Ms. Lehman said, adding that they might even change the name of the imprint to ''Twelve Secrets.''
''We're actually waiting for a call from the government right now,'' Mr. Goldstein added.
Mark S. Zaid, Mr. Shaffer's lawyer, noted that the incident bolstered sales. The book, now in its fifth printing, has become a best seller. Mr. Zaid, who handles a lot of challenges of national security reviews, told me, ''I can only wish that the government would destroy more of my clients' books!''
Could it be that President Obama has found an innovative way to inject financial adrenaline into the beleaguered publishing industry? And the beauty of the maneuver is that the military is a part of the executive branch, so he doesn't have to ask obstructionists in Congress for permission.
I'd love to have my books shredded, too. Readers haven't been moved to buy my latest effort in large-enough numbers to let me pay off my children's college loans, and I can't figure out a way to file for relief from the $20 billion fund for victims of the Gulf of Mexico oil spill. How do I apply for this new program?
Other authors seem to agree that the ban is a boon -- so much so that Christopher Buckley, who writes wickedly about the foibles of government, wants to make a case for foreign aid as well.
''My next novel is about China,'' he wrote in an e-mail to me. ''I've just made arrangements with the government there to buy up 1 million copies and burn them on Tiananmen Square. Since my novels have a typical first printing of about 50,000, this should have a brilliant effect on sales. Why didn't we think of this before?''
The Obama publishing stimulus plan isn't limited to publishers and authors. Booksellers are loving their experience with the few copies of ''Operation Dark Heart'' that slipped out before the Pentagon lumbered into action.
First editions have sold for more than $2,000. Nicholas Watson, director of online sales at the Housing Works bookstore in Manhattan, was stunned to see a copy of the book sell on its site for $250. The bookstore is a nonprofit operation whose proceeds go to fight homelessness and AIDS, so Mr. Watson said the Pentagon assist was more than welcome. ''You can't buy P.R. like that'' for a book, he said.
Marvin Minkler, who runs Marvin Minkler Modern First Editions in St. Johnsbury, Vt., told me that he was thrilled with his recent sale of an unredacted copy, which brought him a net profit of more than $100. The fact that the Pentagon caused the value to rise so steeply does not surprise him. ''Look at the prices they get for toilet seats,'' he said.
So, Mr. Obama, here is my challenge to you. Ban more books. Buy more books. Your nation's publishers, and readers, need your help.
But why stop there? Buy cars. Not those old clunkers, but new ones, to really stimulate Detroit. Take the whole run of new Cadillac Escalades, for example, and plant them in the ground to expand Stanley Marsh's CadillacRanch outside of Amarillo, Tex. As you have said, Mr. President, gas guzzling increases our dependence on foreign oil and is a threat to national security. The sexy aura that the cars will acquire from the plan will almost certainly turbocharge sales.
Your critics can go all Tea Party about this and call it welfare. Cite the economist Frederic Bastiat's parable of the broken window and call the plan wasteful. But I call it genius. Twisted, beautiful genius. And, besides, Bastiat was French.
IN fact, this great nation has many secrets that, seen in a certain light, threaten national security and must be bought immediately.
For example, the government should be buying push-up bras from Victoria's Secret. After all, who knows what they've done to our nation's image in prudish cultures overseas? And Pop Secret popcorn! We can't let its buttery goodness fall into the hands of our enemies. And let's not forget Secret antiperspirant.
And while you're at it, Mr. President, would it kill you to buy some newspapers?

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DANIEL VASCONCELLOS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); ESPIONAGE (90%); CENSORSHIP (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLISHING (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (86%); ARMIES (78%); COMPANY NAME CHANGES (76%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); QURAN & ISLAMIC TEXTS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (91%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: Operation Dark Heart (Book)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2010



247 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; LIVING IN BOROUGH PARK, BROOKLYN; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1517 words

HEADLINE: Where Ritual Sets the Rhythm

BYLINE: By GREGORY BEYER

 BODY:
IN late September, during the final days of the weeklong holiday of Sukkot, young boys in white shirts and black hats could often be seen lining the streets of Borough Park, a large neighborhood in southwest Brooklyn. Standing behind folding card tables arrayed with long, thin willow branches to be waved in synagogue, they called out in Yiddish, hoping to attract customers from among the crowds of shoppers who exited, bags in hand, the kosher markets of 13th Avenue.
The neighborhood is home to one of the largest Orthodox and Hasidic Jewish populations in the United States -- ''the Jewish capital of the United States'' and a ''kosher utopia,'' according to David G. Greenfield, who lives and works in Borough Park, in addition to representing it in the City Council.
Religious tradition and ritual touch nearly every aspect of neighborhood life. During Sukkot, sidewalks and apartment balconies sprouted sukkahs, the traditional wooden booths commemorating the structures that ancient Israelites lived in after their exodus from Egypt. 
Borough Park's commercial strips, 13th and 16th Avenues, are lined with independently owned businesses, many of them religious-themed. The few chain stores -- Rite Aid, Duane Reade, the Children's Place -- are closed on Saturdays in observance of the Jewish Sabbath.
Although Orthodox Jews make up the majority of Borough Park's residents, other groups are represented. Residents like Amy Sicignano, who was brought up amid the neighborhood's considerable Italian and Irish populations, have ended up acquiring an appreciation of Orthodox rituals.
Ms. Sicignano, 63, has a childhood memory of her parents' being asked to turn on the lights in Orthodox neighbors' houses on Saturdays. The reason for such requests -- the Orthodox rule prohibiting the operation of anything mechanical or electrical on the Sabbath -- remained a mystery to her until adulthood, when she gained familiarity with Orthodox traditions and holidays through a job in a neighborhood flower shop.
''Living in Borough Park is living in another world, really,'' she said.
Borough Park (sometimes written Boro Park) is about 200 blocks in area, and has a population of more than 100,000, census figures show. The abundance of children, and strollers, is a striking feature of street life -- a reflection of the Hasidic tradition of raising large families. And the 711-bed Maimonides Medical Center, which abuts Borough Park, is said to deliver more babies than any other hospital in New York State, according to Eileen Tynion, a spokeswoman. In 2009, 7,704 babies were delivered; Ms. Tynion said projections for 2010 exceeded 8,000.
In addition to its abundance of independent stores, Borough Park demonstrates its self-sufficiency through a variety of all-volunteer service groups. In September four members of Shomrim, a volunteer security patrol, were wounded by gunfire in a confrontation -- an unsettling anomaly in this generally low-crime neighborhood, residents and officials say.
There is also Chaveirim, a free service much like AAA, for residents who find themselves with a flat tire or locked out of their houses. Aron Kohn, Chaveirim's founder and director, said its hot line received about 150 calls a day.
WHAT YOU'LL FIND
Bounded by Fort Hamilton Parkway to the west, 60th Street to the south, McDonald Avenue and Bay Parkway to the east, and McDonald Avenue to the north, the neighborhood is home to more than 300 religious institutions, according to Councilman Greenfield. Most are Jewish: yeshivas and synagogues abound, some of them huge, their exteriors bearing Hebrew signage, others smaller and less noticeable.
But there are also exceptions, like St. Frances de Chantal, a Roman Catholic Church on 58th Street, delivering Masses in English and Polish; a statue of Pope John Paul II stands out front.
''There are four houses of worship on my block,'' said Mendel Zilberberg, a lawyer who lives with his wife, Zissie, and children, 9 and 10, in a six-bedroom house on 55th Street. Mr. Zilberberg is involved with several area schools and social organizations, as well as his synagogue, across the street from his home.
''In a community like this, which is really set up to help its fellow man,'' he said, ''you cannot simply be on the receiving end.''
The typically large family size is reflected in the housing. Although there are some detached single-family homes, they are far outnumbered by large brick multifamilies. (In recent years, these have spread beyond the neighborhood's southern boundary on 60th Street.) With space at a premium, three- and four-story homes are common, and many are built out nearly to the sidewalk. ''Every square inch is being utilized here,'' Mr. Greenfield said. In neighboring Bensonhurst, the contrast is evident: there is simply more space between houses, many of which have front yards and landscaping -- rarities in Borough Park.
In 1968, after moving out of her childhood home on 51st Street, Ms. Sicignano moved five blocks away into her current house, a five-bedroom two-bath single-family previously occupied by relatives.
Ms. Sicignano, whose husband died eight years ago, put her house on the market in May, at $849,000. The thought of leaving Borough Park pains her, she said, but she would like to be closer to her son and his family on Long Island.
Jack Favaloro, who grew up in the area and owned an electronics repair store on 11th Avenue, remembered a street of detached and semidetached houses. ''It's like day and night,'' he said. ''Now it's wall-to-wall brick houses, three and four stories high.''
Mr. Favaloro, who is in his late 50s, now lives in Staten Island. A few months ago he learned of the Facebook group ''Old Boro Park Brooklyn,'' and visits the site two or three times a week, to chat about the area and view photos posted by other former residents.
Karol Joswick, the assistant district manager of Community Board 12, described affordable housing as a perennial concern. In August, the City Planning Commission approved a proposal for the construction of about 68 units of affordable housing on the site of a former elevated subway line in the north of the neighborhood. The plan awaits the City Council's review.
Other changes are afoot. An application has been filed with the Department of City Planning for the conversion of Maple Lanes, a bowling alley, into 116 residential units and a synagogue, a department spokeswoman said.
WHAT YOU'LL PAY
Brokers and residents say Borough Park prices are largely recession-proof. Since observant Jews must live within walking distance of their synagogues, demand is high. Detached single-family houses and semidetached multifamily houses routinely fetch more than $1 million, said Charles Fabbella, an agent with Ben Bay Realty Company of Bay Ridge, though smaller apartments in the $300,000 to $400,000 range can be found. The average list price in the neighborhood is $773,000, Mr. Fabbella said, adding that about 20 properties are currently listed. Homes average 30 to 45 days on the market; last year, he said, the selling process would often last more than six months.
In recent years, Asian-Americans have been buying homes in the neighborhood, brokers say. Still, the majority remain Orthodox Jews, in large part because children tend to settle close to their parents, said Joseph Devito, an agent for Fillmore Realty.
WHAT TO DO
There are dozens of shops and restaurants on the commercial thoroughfares of 13th and 16th Avenues: schnitzel bars; the fast-food restaurant Kosher Delight; hat and wig shops; men's and ladies' clothing stores; maternity shops. Eichler's, a ''Judaica superstore,'' is stocked with music, children's books, clothing, and framed photographs of prominent rabbis. Toys include the Jewish Viewer, a viewfinder with slides showing scenes from Jewish history.
The Living Torah Museum, on 41st Street, exhibits ancient artifacts.
The Brooklyn Public Library branch is on 43rd Street at 13th Avenue.
THE SCHOOLS
In addition to the wealth of yeshivas and religious schools, public elementary schools include Public School 164 Caesar Rodney, on 14th Avenue, serving prekindergarten through Grade 5. Last year 52.5 percent of fourth-graders met standards in English, 78.3 percent in math, versus 45.6 and 58.4 citywide.
Among the closest public middle schools is Junior High School 223 the Montauk, on 16th Avenue, serving Grades 6 through 8. Last year, 35.9 percent of eighth-graders met standards in English, 53 percent in math, versus 37.5 and 46.3 citywide.
Franklin Delano Roosevelt High School, on 20th Avenue, serves Grades 9 through 12. SAT averages in 2009 were 390 in reading, 489 in math and 387 in writing, versus 434, 458 and 432 citywide.
THE COMMUTE
Borough Park is served by the F and D trains; it is about 30 minutes from Midtown Manhattan. Bus lines include the 16, which runs along 13th and 14th Avenues, and the 11, which runs along 49th and 50th Streets.
THE HISTORY
The neighborhood's first synagogue was built in 1904, and the construction of the elevated New Utrecht Avenue train line -- now the D -- fueled the area's growth after World War I.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: TAKING THE AIR: Dress shirts left to dry outside a house on 12th Avenue in Borough Park, where large families are prevalent and religious tradition is much in evidence. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BENJAMIN NORMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (92%); JEWISH HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (91%); JEWS & JUDAISM (91%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (78%); FAMILY (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); CUSTOMER ACQUISITION STRATEGY (76%); RETAILERS (71%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); CENSUS (64%); VOLUNTEERS (60%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (60%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); EGYPT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2010



248 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: Foodies on Food Stamps

BYLINE: By ROBIN ROMM. 
Robin Romm is the author of ''The Mother Garden'' and ''The Mercy Papers.''

 BODY:
Portland, Ore.
MY friend Allegra's had a bad year. First, she tore a ligament in her knee playing soccer. Two weeks later, she was let go from the two jobs she worked to pay her rent in a large, worn house just east of Portland's Broadway Bridge.
''Yeah, it pretty much bites,'' she said. We were walking our dogs at Sandy River Delta, a stretch of grassy meadow near the Columbia River. Allegra's tight blond curls caught the sun, as did her polyester flowered miniskirt. I asked her how she was getting by, and she just shrugged. ''Unemployment. And my SNAP benefits work at the farmers' market,'' she said, referring to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program -- that is, food stamps. ''Some of the markets have this program where if you spend a dollar in SNAPs, they match you a dollar.'' 
Allegra pulled out a little plastic bag. ''Here,'' she said, gesturing to a bunch of ripe blackberries bursting on a tangle of bushes, which we started to pick. ''I got jars at Goodwill. I'm making jam.''
I went with Allegra to a small neighborhood farmers' market a few weeks later to experience the match program. The sky was a clogged mess of white and gray, and the market felt lazy and slow.
Allegra doesn't believe in taking anything unless you really need it. But she can't work until after her surgery -- a surgery that Oregon Health and Science University Hospital is paying for in full because she is uninsured. She gets about $200 a month to spend on food.
While we were shopping, we ran into a friend of Allegra's, a beautiful young woman with loosely pinned black hair, holding a baby. Allegra gave her a hug and cooed at the pudgy 6-month-old. ''Are you on food stamps?'' she asked her friend, explaining that I was researching an article for this newspaper. Her friend looked momentarily horrified at the exposure, but conceded that, yes, her family was on food stamps. She had recently completed acupuncture school and her husband had just finished a graduate program in art history.
''I spend nearly all my food-stamp money at the market,'' said Allegra's friend. ''If you avoid packaged foods, the money goes a long way. And it's a better way to eat.''
It's hard not to draw unhappy comparisons between Portland's markets, where fruit spills from boxes, artisanal sausage sits politely on wooden boards and vats of chevre soften in the air, and the farmers' market in Las Cruces, N.M., the city I left a few months ago. Las Cruces sits at the base of the Organ Mountains, craggy, ruthless peaks that cast a shadow over the dry and barren Chihuahua desert. There's just a short growing season for the smattering of farms and the diversity of crops is limited. Late in the spring and summer, the market does have tomatoes, squash, spinach and basil, but none of it is organic.
I spoke by phone to the farmers' market coordinator there. ''We can't really offer organic food,'' he explained. ''It's just too expensive for our population. We have to compete with Wal-Mart or we won't get the customers we need.'' The median family income in Las Cruces is $45,211 (as compared with Portland's $64,193). In an indication of what the farmers at the market in Las Cruces are up against, the busiest vendor, week after week, is the man selling kettle corn.
The coordinator said that the city did have programs to help low-income families, the elderly and pregnant women or nursing mothers buy fresh produce at the market. The most money you'd get to spend at the market would be $28.
''A week?'' I asked.
''A season,'' he said. ''We'd love to be able to take food stamps, but SNAP benefits come on a card and the issue is the electronic swiper,'' he explained. Unlike the Portland markets, the market in Las Cruces doesn't have the money to buy them.
Allegra decided that she wanted some extra squash. She changed a few more of her SNAP benefits into wooden market coins. I didn't need much, so I picked up a small bundle of organic kale for $2.50 and a pint of golden raspberries for $3. Two ingredients for $5.50. In most of the little restaurants in Las Cruces, that would buy an entire meal of tortillas, beans, meat and soda.
Allegra ruminated over blackberries. On the one hand, she wanted to make a pie. Here, she'd need to spend $9; if she drove 40 minutes to the dog park, she might be able to pick them for free. But would they be ripe? Was it worth it?
Then she turned longingly toward the flowers under a white tent. Dahlias, irises and hydrangeas all clustered together in white tubs, a little chorus of color contrasting with the clouds.
''You can't buy those with food stamps,'' Allegra said. For flowers, she uses her savings.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MATT DORFMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHEESE (74%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (74%); FOOD INDUSTRY (74%); SOCCER (73%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (64%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (64%); HISTORY (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (90%) OREGON, USA (93%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2010



249 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1193 words

HEADLINE: Sold on Pork Bellies (and Other Commodities)

BYLINE: By TIM GRAY

 BODY:
IN 2005, K. Geert Rouwenhorst and Gary B. Gorton, now finance professors at Yale, published a paper about the investment benefits of an asset class that was then the province of specialists: commodities. Contrary to the prevailing conventional wisdom, the researchers suggested that pork bellies, coffee and crude oil had a place in individual portfolios alongside stocks, bonds and cash.
Five years later, commodities have become an investing vogue, and Professor Rouwenhorst has jumped, part time, into money management. As a partner in SummerHaven Investment Management in Stamford, Conn., he helped create the United States Commodity Index fund, an exchange-traded fund that opened to investors in August. SummerHaven manages the fund's assets for its sponsor, United States Commodity Funds in Alameda, Calif.
The new E.T.F. is one of a flurry of commodity offerings that have appeared since the professors published their research. In the intervening years, EPFR Global of Cambridge, Mass., a tracker of mutual fund flows, counts a fivefold increase, to about 200, in the number of commodity funds and commodity E.T.F.'s. 
And these funds are scooping up money at a time when stocks have often been stumbling along and bonds are offering skimpy yields. This year through September, investors plowed $18.3 billion into commodity offerings, versus $11.9 billion for the first nine months of 2009, EPFR said. Equity funds, by contrast, have had net outflows.
An E.T.F. that invests across commodity sectors does not buy actual commodities -- that is, barrels of oil or buckets of wheat -- but instead purchases derivative securities called futures. Futures give investors exposure to price movements of commodities without forcing them to own and store the products.
Despite the current gush of enthusiasm, some investment experts say commodity offerings, particularly indexed E.T.F.'s that are passively managed, haven't proved that they can provide retail investors with the combination of simplicity and low costs that, say, a stock index fund built around the Standard & Poor's 500 can.
Compared with a simple stock fund, an indexed commodity E.T.F. can be expensive and complex. As for cost, the iShares S.&P. GSCI Commodity-Indexed Trust, for example, carries expenses of 0.75 percent of assets, while S.& P. 500 index funds from Fidelity and Vanguard have expense ratios of 0.1 percent.
As for complexity, the indexes and approaches of commodity funds and E.T.F.'s, can be hard for average investors to understand. For that reason, Vanguard doesn't offer them.
''Most individual investors don't get the difference between owning a futures contract and a bar of gold,'' said John Ameriks, Vanguard's head of investment counseling and research.
Recently, some indexed commodity E.T.F.'s have not delivered much in the way of performance. ''I can't say that passive investing in commodities won't have its time,'' said Paul Justice, director of North American E.T.F. research at Morningstar. ''But it hasn't worked in the last two to three years.''
The broadly diversified commodity mutual funds and E.T.F.'s followed by Morningstar lost an average of about 10 percent, annualized, over the three years through Sept. 30, while the S.& P. 500 lost 7.2 percent, annualized.
As Professors Rouwenhorst and Gorton contend, the argument for commodities investing via futures is straightforward: Over the long run, it provides stocklike returns, inflation protection and diversification. The professors' work has found an audience among investment firms and helped popularize the idea that commodities futures have a place in retail investors' portfolios.
Their findings have not been the only factor in the rising popularity. James B. Rogers Jr., an author and investment manager, has evangelized about commodities' potential for years. The industrialization of developing economies, like those of China and India, has also brought favorable attention. These countries will have to gorge on raw materials like oil and iron ore to sustain their torrid growth.
''China accounts for roughly half the growth in global demand for iron ore,'' said Frederick Sturm, manager of the Ivy Global Natural Resources fund.
Though the commodity story can captivate, difficulties can arise in executing the strategy. Even the matter of building a commodity index stirs debate. Unlike large-capitalization United States stocks, for which the S.& P. 500 is a de facto standard, the sector hasn't settled on a benchmark. Investment companies build their funds and E.T.F.'s around different ones, and new indexes continue to arrive.
''There's no clear, dominant index that's written into pension-plan policies or ingrained in individual investors' heads,'' said Christopher A. Burton, manager of the Credit Suisse Commodity Return Strategy fund.
The first index that came into widespread use was the S.& P. GSCI, created by Goldman Sachs and now owned by S.& P. It apportions weight to various commodities based on world production volumes. Critics say it overemphasizes energy, which recently accounted for about 70 percent of the index's value, and have offered alternatives. The Dow Jones-UBS Commodity Index, for example, uses production volume and trading activity to calculate weights. It caps the heft of any single commodity group at 33 percent.
The E.T.F. that Professor Rouwenhorst helped create has its own index, the SummerHaven Dynamic Commodity Index. To build it, SummerHaven screens 27 commodities monthly and, from those, picks the 14 that show signs of having the lowest worldwide inventories. These 14 are then equally weighted in the index and, by extension, the E.T.F.
Disagreement over basic questions like benchmarking is partly why Morningstar suggests actively managed funds for average investors who want to invest in commodities.
''You want a manager who can go long and short and has flexibility to pick whatever commodities and maturities he wants,'' Mr. Justice said. Futures, like bonds, come with maturities, and some index funds automatically buy the futures whose maturities are shortest.
One actively managed fund that Morningstar recommends is Pimco Commodity Real Return Strategy, though Mr. Justice cautions that the expense ratio of its Class A shares, at 1.29 percent, is higher than he likes to see.
Campbell R. Harvey, a finance professor at Duke, also argues for active management when venturing into commodities. Like Professors Rouwenhorst and Gorton, he dug into commodity returns before the asset class was fashionable. But he and his co-author, Claude B. Erb, a fund manager at TCW in Los Angeles, arrived at a different conclusion.
In a paper published in 2006, they found ''no premium for passively investing in commodities'' as a group over the long term, Professor Harvey said. And technological change may explain why. When faced with rising prices and shortages, humans find ways to produce and use commodities more efficiently or replace them, he said.
As whale oil, for example, became scarce, people replaced it in lamps and candle wax with petroleum-based oils and waxes. Innovation counterbalances the scarcity that would raise prices over time.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Iron ore in China. The industrialization of developing economies like China's has helped to popularize commodities. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHEPHERD ZHOU/FEATURECHINA, VIA EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (BU14) CHARTS: Turning to Commodity Funds: Returns on commodities have gyrated, but funds specializing in them have attracted much investment. (Sources: EPFR Global) (BU14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); PORK (90%); BONDS (90%); FUTURES (89%); EXCHANGE TRADED FUNDS (89%); INDEX FUNDS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (56%) CONNECTICUT, USA (78%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (77%); CALIFORNIA, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2010



250 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 662 words

HEADLINE: Au Revoir, Gopher!

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DOERR. 
Anthony Doerr is the author, most recently, of ''Memory Wall.''

 BODY:
Boise, Idaho
MY wife grows things: children, cucumbers, dahlias. This past summer she filled her backyard vegetable beds with a shamanistic brew of worm castings, coconut husks and interplanetary dust; the vegetables that leap out of that dirt appear to glow with inner light.
But this fall my wife has encountered an old nemesis: the gopher. We wake up one morning to find 100 dead flowers and 15 pitcher's mounds of sand scattered across the lawn. When the gophers take out the coneflowers, she frowns. But when they come for the lettuce, she puts a bounty on their heads. 
Listen, I say, isn't this part of living in Idaho? Wasps in the gutters, mice in the crawlspace, a screech owl in the garage -- isn't it useless to believe we can sterilize the places we live?
''Hush up, Nature Boy,'' she says. ''The gophers have to go.'' So we call a guy. He shows up in a matching cap and polo shirt, stuffs a hose into a gopher tunnel and pumps it full of propane gas.
''How's business?'' I ask.
''Terrible,'' he says. ''Keep that garden hose ready. This could start a fire.''
Then he blows up our yard. The detonation is so loud a window in our living room shatters.
Two days later, the gophers have replaced our green beans with three volcano-shaped mounds of soil. So I call Mike Ogden, the acting president of the Idaho Chapter of the National Wildlife Control Operators Association. Six hours later, Mike's truck is parked in our driveway.
He wears Wranglers and boots; a half-dozen tools are clipped to his belt. Deep reservoirs of calm float in his eyes. If the world suddenly went bad, I decide, Mike is the kind of guy who could amble into the mountains with his Leatherman and feed himself for a year.
Within a minute he's on his stomach in our backyard, his arm buried to the shoulder in a gopher tunnel.
How's business? ''I haven't taken a day off in six months,'' says Mike.
This is not something one hears very often around here. The Treasure Valley still has a 9 percent unemployment rate. Among the country's largest 100 metropolitan areas, Boise's economy remains among the 20 weakest. More than once this fall I've heard friends declare they now work for the Government Fishing Team -- that is, they collect unemployment and go fishing as much as possible.
Mike, on the other hand, has recently leased a new shop; soon he'll be adding employees. ''The Lord has blessed me with work I love to do,'' he says, ''and work that needs to be done.''
Mike has trapped beavers on the Boise River and bats in the attics of mansions in Sun Valley. A self-described ''frustrated Boy Scout,'' he has sorted out homeowners' conflicts with rattlesnakes, skunks, foxes, feral cats, voles and pigeons. ''My business is growing because people are becoming aware that there is somebody out there who's trained and qualified to resolve these issues for them. It's easier to find a heart surgeon than a guy who does what I do.''
Out here we live at the crossroads of suburbia and something much older. A bull snake lies flattened and looped in the supermarket parking lot; a pregnant raccoon tears off a crawlspace vent and makes itself at home. Everyone's heard the stories: a mountain lion crossing the cul-de-sac, a black bear knocking over the trash cans. Lately, mountain bikers whisper that wolves may have returned to the Boise foothills.
''In the old days,'' Mike says, ''people demonstrated their success by building houses in the city limits, close to hospitals, closest to culture. Now people demonstrate their success by building homes in the wilderness.''
My wife and I stand at the kitchen window as Mike extracts one trapped gopher, and then a second, from our lawn. It's a strange thing to finally see a nuisance that has remained hidden for a long time; you expect it to be bigger. You expect a villain. Instead you get a bucktoothed hamster.
Beyond Mike, beyond the backyard fence, clouds paint the foothills with shadows. I wonder: Who are the intruders here? The gophers? Or us?

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MATT DORFMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (78%); WILDLIFE (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (64%); MOUNTAINS (61%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (60%); ANIMAL CONTROL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOISE, ID, USA (91%) IDAHO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2010



251 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION CONNECTICUT; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 934 words

HEADLINE: Fair-Housing Inquiry in Darien

BYLINE: By LISA PREVOST

 BODY:
THE United States Department of Justice is investigating the Fairfield County town of Darien for possible violations of the Fair Housing Act.
According to a letter sent in May to the first selectman, David Campbell, the department's civil rights division is specifically concerned with wording in part of a new zoning regulation that requires larger developments to include affordable housing.
Called ''inclusionary zoning,'' the ordinance, adopted last year, requires developers of multifamily housing and subdivisions of five or more homes to offer 12 percent of the units at below-market rates. 
The provision under scrutiny designates six ''priority populations'' that are to be given preference for the affordable housing: Darien residents who volunteer as first responders; Darien public employees; Darien residents who work in town; Darien residents; nonresidents who work in Darien; and former residents who want to move back.
Fair-housing specialists said last fall that Darien's list of preferences could potentially be discriminatory in impact because the town has such a small minority population: about 5 percent.
Residency preferences for affordable housing are not illegal. But communities accepting federal housing funds are required to give equal preference to qualified applicants from groups locally in the minority.
Town officials have denied intent to discriminate. Mr. Campbell publicly acknowledged the investigation only last month; he said that when the letter arrived, he passed it on to the Planning and Zoning Commission, which had written the ordinance along with the town's counsel.
The town has since provided Justice Department officials with the information requested, and is waiting to hear back from them, Mr. Campbell said.
A Justice Department representative would not comment on the scope of the Darien investigation other than to confirm that it was in progress.
The planning chairman, Frederick Conze, did not respond to a request for comment.
An affluent suburb long favored by Wall Street executives and hard-driving professionals, Darien has some of the highest-priced housing in the region. Little affordable housing has been built since AvalonBay Communities developed an apartment complex near the train station in 2003. In recent years, however, town officials have grappled with how to alleviate the burden on retirees and public employees.
Inclusionary zoning was one strategy for accomplishing that goal. The policy hasn't been used yet, as no qualifying developments have been approved since it went into effect in May 2009.
The federal inquiry came to light last month, when Christopher and Margaret Stefanoni, a local couple who have sought approvals for two affordable-housing developments in town, told local news organizations that they had been contacted by a Justice Department lawyer.
That lawyer ''wants to understand our experience as affordable-housing developers in Darien,'' including reactions to their proposals from local officials and residents, Ms. Stefanoni said.
Those interactions have often been fiery. The Stefanonis have been controversial figures since 2005, when they proposed an affordable-housing development for retirees on the site of their home in the Noroton section. The Stefanonis filed the application under the state's affordable-housing law, known as 8-30g, which allows developers to sidestep local zoning restrictions in communities with a small percentage of affordable housing.
Opposition was fierce. After two years, when the Stefanonis had obtained nearly all of their approvals, the local land trust stepped in to buy the one-acre plot for more than $4 million.
In 2008, the two again accepted a buyout offer for a single-family property they had bought in the Tokeneke section. Mr. Stefanoni said that right after he inquired about a demolition permit at Town Hall, a lawyer for a resident of an abutting property phoned him to ask, ''How much do you want for it?''
The couple are currently in litigation with the town over their 8-30g proposal for a 16-unit age-restricted condominium complex at the corner of Leroy and West Avenues. The zoning commission denied the application on the ground that the development would be too dense for the site.
Mr. Stefanoni says that he and his wife relish going up against what he calls the rich ''bullies.'' ''I do not do this for the money,'' he said. ''I do it for the fight.''
This year the zoning panel approved another 8-30g application, from Garden Homes Management Corporation, which is converting an office building on the Post Road into 35 small rentals, 11 to be classified affordable.
But at the same time town officials are seeking to halt any further such developments. Earlier this year they filed an application with the state Department of Economic and Community Development for a four-year moratorium on 8-30g applications. In order to qualify, Darien must prove that at least 2 percent of its housing stock meets the standard of ''affordable,'' as calculated through a complex point system.
Darien wants a reprieve to plan for and guide the placement of affordable housing on its own terms, Mr. Campbell said.
''The moratorium to me isn't what's important,'' he said. ''It's much more important to get housing in the right places.''
The Stefanonis have submitted to the state two lengthy reports disputing Darien's point calculations. They are adamant that Darien doesn't qualify for a moratorium, but they aren't taking any chances that one might go into effect: over the summer, they filed two more 8-30g applications for age-restricted housing projects on two more sites.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: SET ASIDE: An office building at 397 Post Road in Darien is being converted into small units, some of which are to be offered below market rates. Opposition to other such projects has at times been fierce. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUGLAS HEALEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ZONING (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); ORDINANCES (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (89%); APPROVALS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); CITIES (78%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); LAWYERS (78%); LAND SUBDIVISION (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (74%); PUBLIC HOUSING (73%); LAND USE PLANNING (73%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2010



252 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1331 words

HEADLINE: A Big-Picture Way To Run a Portfolio

BYLINE: By CONRAD DE AENLLE

 BODY:
THERE may be something to that adage about the devil being in the details. The strong interest in world allocation funds suggests that investors think so, anyway -- or maybe that they just think details are devilishly difficult for money managers to get right.
Instead of filling their portfolios one stock or bond at a time, the way conventional funds do, world allocation funds seek to outperform through big-picture calls. In the investment style of hedge funds, they may make significant bets on or against broad asset classes or geographic regions, based on macroeconomic factors or social or industrial trends.
The bets are sometimes huge. A very large sale of stock index futures by a Waddell & Reed world allocation fund was blamed by federal regulators late last month for initiating the flash crash -- the sharp, brief plunge in the stock market on May 6. 
In world allocation funds, managers can move on to other investments when they have decided that the economic or commercial landscape has changed -- or if they just think something else will work better. These funds, known colloquially as go-anywhere funds, recently held $192 billion in assets, a 2.6 percent increase in three years, according to Morningstar. That may sound like nothing special, but assets in conventional stock funds plunged 27.1 percent in the same span, as a result of weak performance and investor disenchantment.
''There was a perception among a lot of investors that traditional asset allocation did not work to their expectations in the last bear market,'' Kevin McDevitt, a Morningstar analyst, said in explaining the interest in world allocation funds. Investors had assumed that ''as long as they were properly diversified, they would be protected in a downturn, and the feeling is it wasn't the case.''
''They began looking for actively managed funds where the manager makes broad value judgments across all asset groups,'' Mr. McDevitt said. ''It seems to be a contradiction, but there's an expectation that some managers will be able to make good relative value calls and get you ahead of the next crisis.''
Contradiction or not, the idea holds water. In the five years through September, the average world allocation fund had a compound annual return of 4.4 percent, less than the 5.5 percent gain of the average bond fund but well ahead of the 1.7 percent return of the average domestic stock fund.
Analysts like the idea of world allocation funds, but they often express reservations and caveats. Emphasizing broad decisions is a sound strategy, but other approaches are valid, too, they say, and funds' charters may limit their ability to ''go anywhere.''
Across the industry, practitioners of the approach remain a small minority, despite its rising popularity and recent healthy returns. Portfolio managers continue to try to beat their rivals mainly by accumulating many small victories rather than a few big ones.
''A lot of time and effort and skill and money go into trying to arbitrage differences between Merck and Pfizer or Bank of America and Citigroup, and very little trying to arbitrage discrepancies between U.S. Treasury TIPS and small caps or emerging-market bonds and European large value,'' said Ben Inker, head of asset allocation and manager of four world allocation funds at GMO, an investment firm in Boston. Having few competitors doing what he does helps his performance, he said.
Mr. Inker's portfolios had a substantial investment in TIPS, or Treasury inflation-protected securities, earlier this year, but he cut his exposure after yields fell. Lately, he has been buying high-quality American stocks, stocks in emerging markets and such esoteric fare as Australian and New Zealand bonds.
Ryan Caldwell, co-manager of Ivy Asset Strategy and Waddell & Reed Asset Strategy, two almost identical portfolios, has high hopes for China, though they have hurt returns in the short run. A big stake in Chinese stocks, which suffered some sharp drops in the global decline this spring, has left his funds trailing many peers this year.
MR. CALDWELL'S funds were alluded to in the flash-crash report released by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, which regulate stock and futures markets, respectively. Sales by a mutual fund of futures contracts worth $4.1 billion over 20 minutes were one of several factors that combined to send stock prices tumbling, the report said. It did not name the fund, but officials later said the manager was Waddell & Reed.
Mr. Caldwell confirmed that large amounts of futures contracts were sold for his portfolios on the day of the flash crash, but he said that similar trades had been made on several other occasions without incident. He added that the trades on the crash day did not significantly hurt his performance.
He was unavailable when sought for comment on the government report.
Big runs of strength and weakness are common for world allocation funds. ''We know that concentrating and taking bigger bets can increase risk and inject a lot of volatility,'' Mr. Caldwell said. The Ivy and Waddell funds continue to have the best five-year performance among world allocation funds, however. The Waddell fund, for example, returned more than 11 percent, annualized, in the five years through Sept. 30.
He has 13 percent of his portfolios in gold because, he said, he is ''negative on every developed market currency.'' He has 77 percent of assets in stocks spread broadly worldwide and a 50 percent short position in stock index futures; that leaves a net 27 percent exposure. The rest is in cash.
That ability to bet against something and not just for it is essential for a world allocation fund, said Ron Carson, head of the Carson Wealth Management Group in Omaha.
''Performance has been hurt on a lot of these funds because they can go anywhere but remain fully invested,'' he said. He prefers managers ''who have an ability to go anywhere and also to hedge exposure or go short.''
Another criticism of world allocation funds is their expense. Security selection is a secondary consideration, but it still must be done. The cost of scouring the world for the best markets and then picking stocks or bonds can make the funds more expensive to operate than a typical stock fund, Mr. McDevitt at Morningstar said. Still, he finds them potentially useful holdings.
''They have the whole equity universe to draw from, so if foreign stocks or emerging market stocks look expensive, they can overweight U.S. stocks,'' he said. ''The average investor has a hard time doing that. The funds are worth considering, at the very least.''
Roger G. Ibbotson, a professor in the Yale School of Management and founder of Ibbotson Associates, says he is not convinced that a broad asset-allocation approach is best. In his view, it may be harder to beat the competition by getting a small decision right, but the sheer number of opportunities makes it worth the effort.
''At the micro level, the individual stock level, there are thousands of possibilities for distortions,'' Mr. Ibbotson said. ''At the macro level, everyone else is looking at the same data.'' While some investors may be able to interpret the data better, ''there is no special information.''
But he says he has no special knowledge himself about the superiority of one path over the other. ''Either strategy could work,'' he said. ''It's not clear which one is better. It's easier at the micro level to find examples where it works, but at the macro level, especially in a crisis, you can find people who make good bets.''
Mr. Carson says he wouldn't put all his assets into go-anywhere funds, but he suggests that managers who don't sweat the details could have an edge on their peers. ''For sure, picking the right market is more important'' than stock-picking, he said. ''If I'm right about the market, I can afford to make selection mistakes, but if I'm wrong about the market, I need to be perfect in my selection and I may still lose money.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ben Inker, who runs four world allocation funds, has been buying American and emerging-market stocks -- and Australian bonds. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK OSTOW FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); BONDS (89%); FUTURES (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); BOND FUNDS (78%); TRENDS (75%); HEDGE FUNDS (73%)

COMPANY: WADDELL & REED FINANCIAL INC (56%); WADDELL & REED INC (56%)

TICKER: WDR (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2010



253 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1017 words

HEADLINE: Live Large, Think Big, Skip Town

BYLINE: By BEN FOUNTAIN. 
Ben Fountain is the author of the story collection ''Brief Encounters With Che Guevara.''

 BODY:
Dallas
THE ''Welcome Back, President Bush and Laura!'' yard signs have for the most part disappeared from my North Dallas neighborhood. They were starting to look a bit worse for wear, and anyway the time has come for the new crop of midterm-election signs. The ''Had Enough? Vote Republican!'' model is so popular this fall, you'd think a kind of amnesia gas is seeping out from our storm-sewer drains. But then a strong sense of the past has never been a signal feature of the Dallas psyche.
These days you see about as many ''For Sale'' signs as the political kind. Two years after the bubble burst, Dallas residential real estate is ''stale,'' as my Realtor friend Peggye Johnson put it. I caught up with her one Sunday afternoon at an open house in Little Forest Hills. Comparing the current bust with the savings-and-loan meltdown of the 1980s, Peggye declared: ''This is worse. You had 100 percent financing, sometimes even 105 percent. You had lots of people getting loans who had no business borrowing money. And everybody knew there was massive overbuilding going on. 
''That's why,'' she gently but firmly added, ''I'm a big fan of banking regulation.''
A few potential buyers wandered through, one sporting an ''I'm Having an Out of Money Experience'' T-shirt. Peggye asked another prospective client his price range. ''This, and lower,'' was the gruff reply. Prices in Dallas haven't suffered a Vegas-style plunge -- maybe because we didn't get the extreme highs -- but the numbers, as even a cursory crunch of the multiple listing service shows, are bad enough.
Take, for instance, foreclosures in the outer suburbs and blue-collar neighborhoods. As of mid-September, 10 percent of home sales in Plano this year have been foreclosed properties; in Rockwall and Rowlett, upward of 25 percent; Mesquite, a blood-curdling 45 percent.
But the numbers don't tell the whole story, as with the Plano foreclosure whose listing describes these recent repairs: ''replace carpet, repair all drywall holes-blemishes, remove all wallpaper, complete int. paint, replace missing light fixtures and door knobs, replace toilet seats, replace garage door opener, repair fence, gates, etc.'' No, the numbers don't speak to the anger of the dispossessed, the ones who vacate their homes in a scorched-earth rage.
The numbers don't even tell the whole numbers story. Apparently, significant quantities of foreclosed and distressed properties change hands without ever being listed on the multiple listing service. And then there's the increasingly popular Z sale, where the stated sale price -- usually the original list price -- is noted with a ''Z,'' indicating that the actual sale price is, well, something else. But that bogus Z price goes straight into the numbers machine that cranks out the statistical sausage of trends, median prices and comps that are supposed to tell us where the market stands.
''It's poisonous,'' my friend Mark Kreditor told me over lunch, speaking of the Z phenomenon. It might help support the market in the short term by keeping lower prices out of the system, ''but it's like a drug that keeps you pumped up -- after a while it catches up with you.'' Mark, another veteran of the '80s bust, manages more than 1,500 rental properties in the Dallas area, and he has his own blunt take on the local market: a bubbling cesspool -- not quite his actual words! -- of bad credit and tenant noncompliance.
''From the outside, Dallas looks great to investors -- strong population growth, relatively strong employment, great weather, a transportation hub and so on, but you scratch away that veneer, it gets ugly pretty fast,'' he said. Dallas has one of the lowest consumer credit scores of any major American city. Tenants will skip at the drop of a hat, and shrug off nuclear threats to their credit rating. ''Property code by Smith & Wesson,'' is how Mark describes it. In any given year his company files more than 500 eviction proceedings, and can expect fully 20 percent of tenants to fail to fulfill their leases.
''Don't,'' he tells prospective out-of-town investors. ''Dallas is not a normal market.''
Compounding the problem is the seemingly endless prairie that stretches in every direction. Residential real estate in Dallas is all about what's new, fresh, clean and contemporary, and beyond last year's farthest-flung suburban outpost there is always more prairie, another slice of raw land on which to build this year's model of the luxe domestic dream. A sampling of high-dollar foreclosures shows the subprime version of that dream: ''Resort-style backyard w/ pool/spa, fountains and fireplace.'' ''Massive wrought-iron chandeliers.'' ''1,000-bottle wine grotto next to media room.'' ''Opulence abounds.''
With its substantial investments of time, money and energy, home ownership assumes some degree of longevity in a certain place and at a certain station in life, whereas latter-day corporate capitalism demands of its workers the exact opposite -- flexibility, mobility, liquidity, a knack for the fast downsize. Perhaps the average American family would have been better served these past 10 years by investing in a yurt, as opposed to an immovable luxury pile of bricks and mortar.
Lately, I've been reminded of drives to my in-laws' house in the early '90s, and how our route took us past a boarded-up Kroger in an empty field. That supermarket was the forlorn vestige of what was obviously meant to be a grand multi-use development, and some wit had spray-painted on the building's side, ''In time the prairie takes back its own.''
That old Kroger is now a bustling Tom Thumb grocery store that sits smack in the middle of a thriving mega-suburb. So the story has a happy ending? Farther out, though, the real estate turns back into land, and thickets of ragweed and sunflowers are growing over the construction debris. Maybe this track we like to think of as progress is just us going around in wider and wider circles.
''What's going to happen?'' I asked Mark Kreditor at the end of our lunch.
''Nothing,'' came the instant reply. Then he laughed. ''Except more of the same.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MATT DORFMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FORECLOSURE (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); REAL ESTATE LISTING SERVICES (88%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (74%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (74%); HOUSING BUBBLE (74%); SAVINGS & LOANS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (67%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (67%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (90%) TEXAS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2010



254 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1871 words

HEADLINE: Door-to-Door in Levittown

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SOKOLOVE. 
Michael Sokolove is a contributing writer for The New York Times Magazine.

 BODY:
LEVITTOWN, Pa.
PATRICK MURPHY, a Democrat who represents Pennsylvania's Eighth Congressional District, stood at a podium last week in the parking lot of a small business with the muscular name of Iron Horse Excavating. His campaign had made sure to put him right in front of a massive piece of earth-moving equipment, the sort of thing that suggests action and progress. The co-owner of Iron Horse, Troy Brennan, a barrel-chested man and former mixed martial arts fighter, was one of five local businessmen who stood with Mr. Murphy. The two-term congressman introduced them as ''the people who are leading us out of the biggest recession since the Great Depression.''
The campaign event took place on the outskirts of Levittown and about a mile from the old Fairless Works plant of United States Steel. Levittown has a defined past. It is where workingmen and women -- many of them migrants from Philadelphia's teeming neighborhoods or the coal-mining towns of northeastern Pennsylvania -- found an affordable home and a place in America's middle class. When political candidates come around now, the town's residents listen for some tangible hope of a future. 
Mr. Murphy, a former Army captain with the 82nd Airborne Division, was the first Iraq veteran elected to Congress -- and one of the first elected officials in Pennsylvania to throw his support to Barack Obama. He endorsed him in August 2007, ''when it looked like he had no chance,'' as Mr. Murphy put it. After Mr. Obama prevailed in November 2008, the congressman's close association with the new president seemed like a kind of political bragging point. But not now. One independent poll has Mr. Murphy trailing his Republican opponent, Mike Fitzpatrick, by a substantial margin in a district that has long swung between Democrats and Republicans. (Mr. Fitzpatrick represented the district for one term before Mr. Murphy unseated him in 2006.)
I grew up in Levittown, and twice during the presidential campaign of 2008 traveled back to report from there. It is a place that can seem like a relic: older, whiter and less educated than much of the rest of America. Its voters overwhelmingly preferred Hillary Rodham Clinton in the Pennsylvania Democratic primary, but that November they voted in big numbers for Mr. Obama, which was notable, in part, because Levittown was founded in the mid-1950s as a whites-only town.
I went back again last week to see how Levittown was faring and how Mr. Murphy was selling the Democratic economic program, and himself, in a community battered by the recession. Tens of millions of dollars in stimulus funds have gone into the Levittown area -- to the three school districts that serve it, to infrastructure projects and to local businesses. If the money has made a political difference, it is not yet apparent.
The teachers' union president in the Pennsbury School District, George Miller, told me that he did not know how many jobs may have been saved by the approximately $2.1 million the district received because the money went toward existing programs that might, or might not, have been financed without the stimulus. This is one of the problems with the stimulus across America. Jobs lost or gained are easily measured. Jobs saved or economic catastrophes averted -- if that is what has happened -- are more difficult to tally.
I drove over to the Levittown Beauty Academy, which trains about 75 cosmetologists a year and charges $15,000 for its yearlong course. It is listed on the ''Recovery Tracker'' Web page of ProPublica, a nonprofit investigative journalism group, because some of its students pay in part with Pell Grants, which were funded by the stimulus. But the beauty academy's owner, Nancy DeVenuto, said that if she was in some way a beneficiary of the stimulus, it was news to her. Her students have been using Pell Grants for years, she said, and nothing seemed to her to have changed.
About a mile up the road was another invisible stimulus beneficiary -- a beer store, or beer distributor, as they are called in Pennsylvania. It had received a $1 million loan guaranteed by the Small Business Administration under a part of the Recovery Act intended to make money available to small businesses after the private credit market seized up. The owner of the store, a Cambodian immigrant, did not want to talk to me. And, not surprisingly, there was no sign posted -- ''Your Stimulus Funds at Work'' -- for customers to see as they walked through the door to get their cases of Bud or cartons of cigarettes.
The Eighth Congressional District, which covers Bucks County, includes slightly more Democrats than Republicans, but 15 percent of its voters are not registered with either party. Adding to the electoral volatility, moderate Republicans in the prosperous middle part of the county and conservative Democrats in formerly industrial Lower Bucks, where Levittown is located, do not always vote with their party.
Plenty of Obama voters will surely stick with Patrick Murphy, some for reasons not directly related to the district or their personal finances. In 2008, I interviewed Joe Sinitski, a technician for a heating and air-conditioning company, just before he cast a vote he never expected to make -- for Mr. Obama, even though he said he had been ''brought up'' in such a way as to make him disinclined to vote for a black candidate. He has since been laid off from his job but said he would vote for the Democrat. ''The way it looks to me is the Republicans have gone to the other extreme,'' he said. ''It's like they're saying, 'O.K., if you can vote in a black guy, we'll counter that by putting up nut jobs for office.' ''
But most voters are looking inward, at more personal concerns. I walked with Mr. Murphy one evening for nearly three hours as he campaigned door to door in in largely Democratic, vote-rich Levittown. A boyish-looking 36, Mr. Murphy displayed the enthusiasm and earnestness of an Eagle Scout. ''I'm Patrick Murphy, the local congressman,'' he said to whoever answered the door. He talked about the 3,000 jobs he had saved in the district, including many ''green'' and high-tech jobs of the future.
The reception he got was eye-opening. The people Mr. Murphy encountered were angry, and none of them, as far as I could tell, were associated with the Tea Party movement. The very first voter he talked to that evening was a man in his mid-70s who said he had paid more than he expected for a recent hospital stay because of the health insurance reforms passed by Congress. Mr. Murphy told him he did not think that could possibly be the case and urged him to visit his district office so his staff could review the medical bills.
''Sir, I'm doing my best. I really want to help you,'' he said. It got him nowhere. ''I think you're all a bunch of sewer rats in Washington,'' the man told him.
There was no dancing in the streets on Election Night 2008 in Levittown, as occurred -- literally -- in nearby Philadelphia. But the Levittowners I talked to then were happy with the result, and I sensed a spirit of optimism, even among some who had voted for John McCain. That optimism now seems to have evaporated.
The current campaign in the Eighth District is a typically grinding, negative affair. Mr. Fitzpatrick has taken every opportunity to link Mr. Murphy with President Obama and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi -- while Mr. Murphy has relentlessly hammered Mr. Fitzpatrick for a 2005 vote on a Central American free-trade agreement that he claims cost the district jobs.
As Mr. Murphy moved from house to house, he tried to connect in any way he could, rattling off whatever biographical facts seemed to apply. He'd say he was in a ''mixed marriage'' -- his wife is an enrolled Republican -- or talk about his military background or his father, a retired Philadelphia police officer now working three part-time jobs. At a house with a pickup truck in the driveway plastered with Philadelphia Flyers bumper stickers, he remarked that he had played hockey as a child at a rink in neighboring Bristol Borough. To a woman wearing a crucifix, he said he had once been named altar boy of the year at his local parish.
Very few people seemed to want to actually listen to him. They jumped in with long lists of grievances: taxes, job losses, immigration, crooked local officials, junked cars in neighbors' yards.
Marge Reed, 75, opened her screen door and before he could complete a sentence said, ''You know what, Mr. Murphy, I don't believe anything anybody tells me anymore.'' She apologized for her frankness but said it was to be expected because of her Irish heritage. ''I'm Irish, too,'' Mr. Murphy said, as if she might not know that. ''So is your opponent,'' she said, and they both laughed. She told Mr. Murphy that she planned to vote for him, then continued giving him a piece of her mind.
Little of the anger Mr. Murphy encountered was aimed directly at him or even at President Obama. Mr. Murphy never once mentioned the president's name, and, oddly, over the course of three hours, neither did any of the Levittown residents. People just did not like their situation or the general drift of the country, and seemed to hold everyone in a position of power -- locally and in Washington -- responsible.
I called Marge Reed the next day. She had worked for the Spiegel catalog company at a store in Levittown where people picked up their orders. She said she had lost much of her retirement nest egg in the stock market and was living on $13,750 a year and having a hard time paying for her prescriptions. Her husband died in 1993. ''I don't feel like anybody cares about people like me,'' she said. ''I remember President Obama talking about how he worried about his mother paying her health bills when she had cancer. Well, I'm somebody's mother, too.''
Rick Rook, 59, a retired Air Force man, said he was not sure that he would vote at all. ''I know why people go into politics,'' he said. ''They're idealistic. But they get to Washington because somebody gave them money and then they've got to return the favor. I still believe in our system, but I don't believe in the politicians.''
Mr. Murphy's campaign has vehemently contested the accuracy of a late September poll that had him trailing Mr. Fitzpatrick by 14 points among likely voters, pointing out that the same pollster, G. Terry Madonna of Franklin and Marshall College, had him well behind in his 2006 race just weeks before the election. ''I'm not saying the race is over,'' Mr. Madonna said when I called him. ''The poll was taken at five weeks out and there were a large number of undecideds. Murphy could still win. I don't think, politically speaking, he's a dead man walking.''
My walk with Mr. Murphy in Levittown began in a steady drizzle, which as the night wore on became a cold, driving rain. He had an umbrella but didn't use it. I wondered at times why he, or anyone, would want to win office. The low regard for public officials that pollsters are finding could be viscerally felt.
Several people shook Mr. Murphy's hand and commented on how cold it was. They couldn't believe that he was outside on such a horrid night. But they let him stand at the door. No one invited him in for so much as a cup of hot tea.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: JAMON KELSEY, WITH HIS WIFE, RACHEL, AND THEIR DAUGHTER DANIELLE
MARGE REED
ANNE BELLUS
RICK ROOK
HOWARD STONER WITH HIS FATHER, HOWARD SPARKY STONER SR. (WK1)
 On the Edge: Representative Patrick Murphy, left, Democrat of Pennsylvania, campaigns with local businessmen. He faces a tough fight from the Republican he unseated in 2006. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SABINA LOUISE PIERCE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (WK4) GRAPHICS: A Democrat Trying to Hold On: Representative Patrick Murphy is running for a third term in Pennsylvania's 8th Congressional District. Here is how he fared in his first two victories (WK4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (86%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); RECESSION (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (74%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (73%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (73%); MARTIAL ARTS (70%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (70%); GREAT DEPRESSION (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT (57%); COAL MINING (52%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%)

COMPANY: UNITED STATES STEEL CORP (56%)

TICKER: X (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (56%)

PERSON: PATRICK J MURPHY (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); MIKE FITZPATRICK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2010



255 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1133 words

HEADLINE: Vilified or Not, Pelosi Insists She's Winning

BYLINE: By MARK LEIBOVICH

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO -- While polls were showing her to be among the country's most disliked politicians, Democrats were ducking her on the campaign trail and the Republican Party chairman was riding around in a ''Fire Pelosi!'' bus, the speaker of the House was checking out mattresses.
''Wow, this is great,'' said a sleep-deprived Nancy Pelosi as she stroked a plush specimen during a tour of the McRoskey Mattress Company here on Wednesday. While few politicians ever look comfortable on factory floors, Ms. Pelosi, the California Democrat, seemed particularly ill suited, her shiny pearls clashing with the goofy safety goggles she was required to wear.
On the brink of an election that could end Ms. Pelosi's four-year run as speaker, her recent doings underscore an enduring truth: This most vilified of politicians is also one of the most resolute. 
In recent months, the 70-year-old speaker's days have been packed with private fund-raising events across the country for many of the Democrats who have been publicly avoiding her like bedbugs. (Since the beginning of 2009, she has raised $52.3 million for Democratic incumbents, candidates and the party's Congressional campaign committee, second only to President Obama among Democrats.)
She has hammered home her party's ''Take America Forward'' message while campaigning in her district and for candidates across the country. And she has batted away a daily barrage of ''What if'' questions from friends, nervous incumbents and reporters -- as in ''What if Democrats lose their majority?'' (Would she run for minority leader? Would she quit Congress?)
Efforts to engage Ms. Pelosi on such questions are futile.
''We're not losing,'' she said in an interview after the mattress company tour. Through a tight grin, she dismissed an inquiry -- whether she would stay in Congress if Democrats lost -- as ''so D.C., like an insider thing,'' and she accused the news media of predetermining the election results. ''They're saying, 'This is how we see it, so this is how it will be, so prove to us it isn't,' '' she complained.
It is hard to find anyone who claims to have heard Ms. Pelosi entertain doubts about winning. ''She believes deep in her soul that the Democrats will keep the majority,'' said Larry Horowitz, a friend and adviser.
Whether that is denial, superstition, insight or spin is a subject of some debate. Ms. Pelosi is fully aware that the bad economy, the electoral map and historical trends favor Republicans, said Roz Wyman, a longtime Democratic activist in Los Angeles.
''She knows the situation and exactly what she is up against,'' said Ms. Wyman, a frequent late-night phone buddy. ''We pretty much talk about everything, especially our grandchildren. But we never talk about losing.''
By all accounts, Ms. Pelosi has been engaged in district-by-district assessments of races, a type of political card-counting she learned as the daughter of a Baltimore mayor and congressman. She knows which of her members are in trouble, which need her help -- and which ones absolutely do not want it. She can spout real-time reports on Republican chances of netting the 39 seats required for a majority.
Publicly, Ms. Pelosi is one of the most focused, disciplined and on-message politicians anywhere. Last week, she was trumpeting her party's commitment to keeping manufacturing jobs in the United States. During her mattress company tour, people kept saying, ''Welcome to San Francisco,'' which elicited a slight wince, given that Ms. Pelosi has represented the city in Congress for 23 years.
She took a few questions. ''The mattresses are beautiful,'' a San Francisco radio reporter opened. ''But the question is, four weeks before the election, how are you sleeping?''
Ms. Pelosi shook her head. ''Let's talk about 'Make It in America,' '' she said, the party's theme of the week.
Or let's not. A 10-minute news conference was dominated by questions like, ''Are you still as rosy in your assessment that you're going to hold on to the House and that you're still going to be speaker?''
''I feel that we will be in the majority and that I will be speaker of the House,'' she replied. ''But it's not about me, it's about the middle class.''
Next question: ''Do you even think about not keeping the House?''
''No, never.''
Of course, one of the first rules of electoral rhetoric is that politicians must never publicly acknowledge the possibility of defeat. When the White House spokesman Robert Gibbs allowed this summer that Republicans had a chance of winning the House, his comments drew rebukes from House Democrats, led by the speaker.
Ms. Pelosi has no patience for such ''noise,'' even when she is the center of it. Republicans have made her a favorite liberal bogywoman for the better part of a decade, never more so than now. She is cast as an ''extreme liberal'' and ''ruthless partisan,'' out of step with the mainstream.
While her Congressional seat appears safe, it often seems now as if Ms. Pelosi's name is on the ballot in every Congressional district in the country.
''My opponent wants to make this election about a congresswoman from California,'' Representative John Boccieri, Democrat of Ohio, told Roll Call, noting that his Republican rival, Jim Renacci, mentioned Ms. Pelosi's name 14 times in a recent debate.
And a recent NBC/Wall Street Journal poll revealed that Ms. Pelosi and Sarah Palin are two of the country's most polarizing political figures. Fifty-one percent of respondents said it was unacceptable for Ms. Pelosi to continue as speaker, a figure exceeding the percentage who say it would be unacceptable for Democrats to retain control of Congress.
Ms. Pelosi said she did not care that she was a target, as long as Democrats get re-elected -- even if that means distancing themselves from her. (On Thursday, Representative Bobby Bright of Alabama became the first Democrat to publicly say he would not support Ms. Pelosi for speaker if he were re-elected.)
As Ms. Pelosi held forth on mattresses and box springs in San Francisco last week, Michael Steele, the Republican chairman, was riding his bright red ''Fire Pelosi!'' bus into Stockton, Calif., as part of a coast-to-coast expedition. She flashed a hint of annoyance when a local television reporter asked her about it.
''It shows the bankruptcy of their ideas,'' she said. ''If you want to use something like that to get their attention, then after you get their attention, you have to say what you stand for.''
Ms. Pelosi said she understood that voters were restless, and impatient with their elected leaders.
''Everyone is looking up now, and they are going to make their choice,'' she said before posing for a photo with McRoskey's employees near a giant sign that said ''Exceeding Expectations for 112 Years.'' As she held her smile, she appeared to stifle a yawn.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Speaker Nancy Pelosi deflects questions about the chance of Democrats losing the House. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CLIFF OWEN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A26) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); POLITICS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MATTRESS MFG (89%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); FUNDRAISING (73%); BED BUGS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (65%)

PERSON: NANCY PELOSI (92%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2010



256 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2103 words

HEADLINE: A Shoemaker That Walks But Never Runs

BYLINE: By LIZ ALDERMAN

 BODY:
Sant'Elpidio a Mare, Italy
SOMETHING wasn't right about the black sport shoes that Diego Della Valle wore on a recent stroll around the sleek campus and factory that form the heart of the Tod's luxury shoe empire here.
''I don't like the way they feel,'' declares Mr. Della Valle, the chairman of Tod's, stopping mid-stride to study his feet more closely. ''It's the part around the toes,'' he says. ''It needs to be rounder.''
Mr. Della Valle does things the old-fashioned way: by instinct. To find out if a new style of shoes will work in the marketplace, he doesn't need focus groups or poll testing -- he wears them. After a few days, if they're not to his liking, he renders his verdict: ''These won't go into production.''
Despite running Tod's like a traditional, Old World family business, Mr. Della Valle has turned it into a successful multinational, multibillion-dollar company, whose buttery leather moccasins adorn the feet of Princess Stephanie of Monaco, Gwyneth Paltrow and thousands of other loyalists around the world. 
Around his sweeping white office, there are no computers and no iPhones; Mr. Della Valle, 56, feels more comfortable clinging to an outdated Motorola cellphone. Above him looms the painted silhouette of President John F. Kennedy, one of his idols.
His father, Dorino, 85, whose business in hand-cobbled shoes was transformed by Mr. Della Valle into a family empire, still shuffles in each day with a silver-knobbed cane to inspect things. Across the hall, Mr. Della Valle's younger brother, Andrea, manages operations; he is also co-owner of the Fiorentina soccer team that Tod's bought in 2002.
But if relying on tradition is a fading style in the modern luxury market, that is what has kept this company growing. ''We don't take risks,'' says Mr. Della Valle, who has kept the business concentrated on shoes and handbags. ''We want to guarantee our customers we're giving them the best.''
While he never gambles with Tod's itself, he occasionally does go out on a limb. Since 2009, he has amassed a 9 percent holding in Saks Inc., making him the second-largest shareholder, behind the Mexican billionaire Carlos Slim Helu.
Mr. Della Valle says he became interested in the retailer on his first visit to the United States as a youth, when he stopped in at a Saks Fifth Avenue store -- to which his father used to sell high-quality shoes -- and was ''overwhelmed by the size of the store and by the amount of people shopping.'' He says he views Saks as having ''enormous potential for growth with an excellent management in place.''
All the investment comes from Mr. Della Valle's own private purse and is not linked to Tod's. Though he refuses to say if he is pursuing a takeover, he bought the shares when they were a bargain and has said he has no plans to sell.
Something else he hasn't done is follow the trend of other Italian-based multinational companies that are moving production to cheaper points like China, even as the luxury industry stakes much of its future on the growing ranks of wealthy people there. Tod's has 24 stores in China, and Mr. Della Valle is making Beijing his first stop on an Asian tour this month.
A men's crocodile loafer, which retails for 3,500 euros, or about $4,850, costs 1,590 euros for Tod's to produce in Italy. Making it in China would reduce the cost by half. But while ''Made in Italy'' may cost more, Mr. Della Valle says he still thinks it is worth the price. He sniffs at companies like Geox, which has sent most manufacturing of its Italian-designed shoes abroad.
Thanks to cheaper labor, Geox had strong margins until the financial crisis hit, but now its performance has stumbled. Tod's, by contrast, must defend its margins by passing the costs of hand-stitching, expensive leathers and continued innovation on to consumers, which it can do only by promoting exclusivity.
''For true luxury brands, lowering prices by outsourcing is not something they could really ever consider as a strategy for growth,'' said Davide Vimercati, the chief analyst for luxury goods at UniCredit in Milan. On the other hand, he said, Tod's is ''certainly giving up some profitability because they don't spend less on manufacturing.''
Even if outsourcing shoes and handbags could plump the bottom line, the strategy of Tod's has paid off -- and seems likely to keep doing so as long as it stays a premium brand with universal appeal. It was one of the few luxury companies worldwide to increase sales and profits through the financial crisis: profit grew from 77 million euros in 2007 to 83 million in 2008 and 86 million last year.
Today, shares of Tod's have recovered to around 70 euros after falling to around 30 euros in 2008 and 2009, when frightened consumers -- and a worldwide flight from stocks -- sent the luxury industry reeling. And while the wisdom of Mr. Della Valle's holding in Saks remains a question, the investment will not ricochet back to the steady business that is Tod's.
''Tod's is proof that if you manage your brand consistently and you build brand equity over the years, you reach a stage where demand remains strong, even in tough times,'' Mr. Vimercati says.
COMING off a decade when Jimmy Choos and Manolo Blahniks flew from the shelves, Tod's marched quietly ahead by fabricating subtle variations of its signature gommini, or driving moccasin, into which tired feet could slip chicly when the stilettos came off.
The secret is pure Italian style, which Mr. Della Valle says is identifiable anywhere in the world. ''When I am walking in Central Park, I recognize the Italians,'' he says. ''Because an Italian, even when he jogs, he's dressed perfect.''
Mr. Della Valle says he makes sure this is reflected in Tod's shoes and handbags. ''There is a time to be chic and sportive, there is a time to be sexy and feminine, but it's hard to find the balance, and Tod's has done that,'' he says.
A perfectionist himself, he has the final word on new styles, new markets and new stores. Running the business, he says, has been like an obsession ever since he dropped out of law school in Bologna.
YET his acute focus could also prove his biggest future nemesis, analysts say.
The key for close-knit companies like Tod's is a patriarch like Mr. Della Valle, who projects the family's values into the product as ''part of a promise from the company that's incorporated into one person,'' says Stefania Saviolo, director of the master's program in fashion at the Bocconi University Business School in Milan.
But Mr. Della Valle ''cannot be on top of everything,'' argues Mr. Vimercati. ''He needs to prepare the company for a transition from an entrepreneurial-style company to a managerial-run company.''
That has worked for companies like Luxottica, the Italian eyeware maker, which has grown since it delegated more control to outsiders. It was a stiffer challenge for big family-run businesses like Benetton, which also hired outsiders but whose family is still engaged in decision-making, sowing confusion sometimes about the chain of command, Mr. Vimercati says.
Yet even if a corporate makeover could lift growth, Tod's, with a market capitalization of 2.15 billion euros, is still worth a fortune. And so is Mr. Della Valle.
The Tod's headquarters is 10 minutes from his hilltop home in Casette d'Ete, the Villa Brancadoro, a restored 12th-century monastery and the home of a former count. It serves as a family retreat.
At the end of an impeccably manicured Mediterranean garden there, a white-aproned maid wearing black suede Tod's slip-ons awaits visitors at the door.
Inside, the decor is much like a Tod's shoe: expensive, but subtle. Matching apricot-velvet sofas are crowned with paintings by Alexander Calder and Lucio Fontana. Three photographs signed by Henri Cartier-Bresson sit near two ceramic statues of Mao.
The family lounges in the basement in summer, where there is a pool, a gym and a sauna. For all of his paparazzi moments, Mr. Della Valle says he prefers the refuge of his family and friends. ''When it is possible,'' he says, ''I choose to have a quiet life.''
Mr. Della Valle, who decided to start his own brand in 1978, named the company J. P. Tod's after the name caught his eye in a Boston phonebook. (The initials were later dropped.) He acknowledges that he is ''very lucky because I do what I like -- I guide my life.''
The villa is only one of six houses he owns. The others are in Capri, Milan, Paris, New York and Miami. ''Nobody said stop,'' Mr. Della Valle says.
He keeps two Ferraris, among other cars; a helicopter; a private jet; and a personal bodyguard. In 2005, he bought President Kennedy's mahogany cruiser, the Marlin, at a Christie's auction while lunching with Ralph Lauren. Today, it functions as his water taxi between the Amalfi Coast and Capri.
The company's headquarters is festooned with large deconstructed images of Tod's shoes by the Italian artist Giovanni Gastel, as well as two vast lunar landscapes compiled with photographs from the Apollo 11 moon landing. The first Ferrari in which Michael Schumacher won a Grand Prix is mounted in a hallway, a gift from the Ferrari chairman Luca Cordero di Montezemolo.
Mr. Della Valle's own office abuts a waiting room where three secretaries keep tabs on the company's activities worldwide. On this afternoon, his father appeared, wearing a blue jogging suit and white Tod's sport shoes. The only person allowed to smoke, he lit a slim cigarette as the secretaries showed him an itinerary for Paris and made him an espresso.
''He has a word for everyone, from the newest worker to the most senior manager,'' Andrea Della Valle says of his father, who sometimes speeds his visits with a bicycle that he pedals around the halls.
Is his father proud of the empire his son has built? ''It depends on the day,'' says Diego Della Valle. ''If it rains, no. If it's sunny, yes.''
Determined and philosophical, Diego Della Valle draws inspiration from leaders who he says had the energy to foster change, including President Obama and Mikhail S. Gorbachev, the former Soviet leader.
Mr. Della Valle says President Kennedy's vision and tenacity gripped him as a youth. ''He was a man who helped along the imagination of the young generation and the poor people of the time,'' he said, sweeping his arm toward the giant painting in his office.
Mr. Della Valle's family started off poor. His mother, a worker in a leather factory, would often ask for food from the cook at the count's villa that he now owns. Italian politicians suit him less.
In 2006, he brawled publicly with his former friend, Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi, whom he chastised as eroding Italy's economy and prestige. Mr. Berlusconi accused Mr. Della Valle of having ''skeletons in his closet'' for sympathizing with the left wing, remarks that Mr. Della Valle said could only come from a man ''on the edge of a nervous breakdown.''
Mr. Della Valle says their friendship has since resumed. But he still laments what he describes as weak political leadership that makes Italian corporate icons more famous than the country's politicians. When it comes to Italy's reputation, he says, ''the best ambassadors around the world are the most successful Italian companies.''
And maintaining a quality image is one reason he says he continues to insist that all Tod's work be done close to home.
IN the light-filled design campus designed by Mr. Della Valle's wife, the architect Barbara Pistilli, sketches are sent to a modeling room where about 20 employees print three-dimensional casts for patterns. In a workshop, about 50 people make prototype shoes from leather cut manually along the blueprints.
After Mr. Della Valle approves a model, it moves into Tod's vast leather and sewing factory, one of six in Italy, and a constant reminder of how his childhood was spent ''inhaling leather.''
Here, 300 people stitch shoes by hand from an exotic selection of colorful leathers, as well as python, alligator and crocodile hides. The most expensive, said Antonio Ripani, Tod's leather master, is the Australian marine crocodile, at $1,000 a skin. It takes five to make a handbag that then sells for around $10,000.
Back in the offices, Andrea Della Valle points to photos including one of Hillary Rodham Clinton wielding a Tod's handbag on her first day as first lady, and Tom Hanks wearing Tod's as he sprinted from danger in ''The Da Vinci Code.'' ''We've come a long way in 20 years,'' Andrea said.
The brothers paused in front of an old wooden table that they, their grandfather and their father had sat around, cutting leather and stitching shoes by hand.
Diego says, ''It's there so we don't forget our roots.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A design room of Tod's breathes tradition. Its chairman refuses to move production outside Italy. (BU1)
 Diego Della Valle helped turn his father's hand-made shoes into the Tod's empire of luxury. The offices, above, are near his hilltop villa, below, in Casette d'Ete, Italy. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NADIA SHIRA COHEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ATHLETIC FOOTWEAR MFG (90%); FOOTWEAR (90%); LUXURY GOODS (89%); FOCUS GROUPS (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); FAMILY COMPANIES (72%); SMARTPHONES (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (64%); RETAILERS (60%); VERDICTS (53%); SHAREHOLDERS (50%); SOCCER (50%)

COMPANY: TOD'S SPA (92%); SAKS INC (62%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (54%); SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (50%)

TICKER: TOD (BIT) (92%); SKS (NYSE) (62%); MSI (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316210 FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS315990 APPAREL ACCESSORIES & OTHER APPAREL MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2389 APPAREL & ACCESSORIES, NEC (92%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (62%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (54%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (50%)

PERSON: DIEGO DELLA VALLE (91%); CARLOS SLIM HELU (50%); JOHN F KENNEDY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (78%); MONACO (58%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2010



257 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1257 words

HEADLINE: China Emerges As a Scapegoat In Campaign Ads

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

 BODY:
With many Americans seized by anxiety about the country's economic decline, candidates from both political parties have suddenly found a new villain to run against: China.
From the marquee battle between Senator Barbara Boxer and Carly Fiorina in California to the House contests in rural New York, Democrats and Republicans are blaming one another for allowing the export of jobs to its economic rival.
In the past week or so, at least 29 candidates have unveiled advertisements suggesting that their opponents have been too sympathetic to China and, as a result, Americans have suffered.
The ads are striking not only in their volume but also in their pointed language. 
One ad for an Ohio congressman, Zack Space, accuses his Republican opponent, Bob Gibbs, of supporting free-trade policies that sent Ohioans' jobs to China. As a giant dragon appears on the screen, the narrator sarcastically thanks the Republican: ''As they say in China, xie xie Mr. Gibbs!''
In an ad featuring Chinese music and a photo of Chairman Mao, Spike Maynard, a Republican challenger in West Virginia, charges that Representative Nick Rahall supported a bill creating wind-turbine jobs in China.
And on Wednesday, Senator Harry Reid, the majority leader, began showing an ad that wove pictures of Chinese factory workers with criticism that Republican Sharron Angle was ''a foreign worker's best friend'' for supporting corporate tax breaks that led to outsourcing to China and India.
The barrage of ads, expected to total in the tens of millions of dollars, is occurring as politicians are struggling to address voters' most pressing and stubborn concern: the lack of jobs.
''China is a really easy scapegoat,'' said Erika Franklin Fowler, a political science professor at Wesleyan University who is director of the Wesleyan Media Project, which tracks political advertising.
Polls show that not only are Americans increasingly worried that the United States will have a lesser role in the years ahead; they are more and more convinced that China will dominate. In a Pew poll conducted in April, 41 percent of Americans said China was the world's leading economic power, slightly more than those who named the United States.
The attacks are occurring as trade tensions continue and the United States is pressuring the Chinese government to allow its currency to rise in value, a central topic under discussion at the International Monetary Fund meeting in Washington this weekend.
The ads are so vivid and pervasive that some worry they will increase hostility toward the Chinese and complicate the already fraught relationship between the two countries.
Robert A. Kapp, a former president of the US-China Business Council, said that even though tensions had flared in the past, he had never seen China used as such an obvious punching bag for American politicians.
''To bring one country into the crosshairs in so many districts, at such a late stage of the campaign, represents something new and a calculated gamble,'' he said. ''I find it deplorable. I find it demeaning.''
Not all of the ads are solely about China; a few mention India or Mexico. A recent ad from Mrs. Boxer accuses Ms. Fiorina, a former chief executive at Hewlett-Packard, of outsourcing thousands of jobs to ''Shanghai instead of San Jose, Bangalore instead of Burbank,'' and of ''proudly stamping her products 'Made in China.' ''
It is no accident that Democrats, in particular, have been eying China as a line of attack. This spring, national Democrats, including the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, began to encourage candidates to highlight the issue after reviewing internal polling that suggested voters strongly favored eliminating tax breaks for companies that do business in China. The party first began emphasizing the issue in a special election for a Pennsylvania House seat in May, said Representative Chris Van Hollen of Maryland, chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee.
Never mind that there is hardly any consensus as to what exactly constitutes outsourcing and how many of the new overseas jobs would have stayed in American hands. The Democrats cite studies this year from the Economic Policy Institute, a liberal research organization, that assert three million jobs have been outsourced to China since 2001 because of the growing trade imbalance.
But Republicans, backed by some academics, say the number is much smaller. Indeed, Scott Kennedy, director of the Research Center for Chinese Politics and Business at Indiana University, said that most of the jobs China had added in manufacturing through foreign investment had come from Taiwan, Hong Kong and South Korea, not from the United States.
Still, some Republicans clearly see the issue as potent, and they are counterattacking with ads stating that the Obama administration's stimulus package helped to create $2 billion in wind-turbine technology jobs in China, a claim the Treasury Department and the American Wind Energy Association say is dubious.
Representative John A. Boehner, the House minority leader, in a speech Friday in Ohio, blamed President Obama and Ms. Pelosi for a ''stimulus that shipped jobs overseas to China instead of creating jobs here at home.''
Evan B. Tracey, president of the Campaign Media Analysis Group, which tracks political advertising, said that ''China has sort of become a straw-man villain in this election'' in a way that elicits comparisons to the sentiments toward Japan in the 1980s over car manufacturing and Mexico in the 1990s over the North American Free Trade Agreement.
While China's growth has slowed a bit recently, its economy is still projected to surge by about 10 percent this year, continuing a remarkable three-decade streak of double-digit expansion.
''In a lot of ways it's a code word: 'Let's be mad at China, because then the voters will connect the dots and say our manufacturing plants have been shut down because of China, and all the unfair labor practices, and throw on the fact that we're basically selling all our debt to China,'//'' Mr. Tracey said.
Even as the ads play up Americans' unease with the threat posed by modern China, they often employ outdated and almost cliche depictions.
In a new spot for Representative Joe Sestak, who is running for the Senate in Pennsylvania, a gong clangs as a narrator says of his Republican rival, Pat Toomey: ''He's fighting for jobs -- in China.''
An ad for Ryan Frazier, a Republican running for Congress in western Colorado, shows Forbidden City-style doors opening to reveal China on a world map, as the voiceover criticizes the Democratic incumbent, Ed Perlmutter, for supporting cap-and-trade legislation, which some Coloradans believe will drive more manufacturing jobs overseas.
Consultants from both parties are monitoring polling and voter reaction to gauge the effectiveness of the ads and to determine how long to continue showing them. Based on the back-and-forth between candidates on the campaign trail, the issue does not appear to be going away anytime soon.
At a Senate debate in Connecticut on Monday night between the Democrat Richard Blumenthal and the Republican Linda E. McMahon, Mr. Blumenthal repeatedly tried to raise concerns about the business practices of World Wrestling Entertainment, the company in which Ms. McMahon served as chief executive.
A tense moment occurred when Mr. Blumenthal asked: Why does Ms. McMahon's company manufacture its popular action figure toys in China, rather than here at home? She said it was not her decision, but that of the toy company, and moved on.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Democratic ads aimed at Pat Toomey of Pennsylvania, left, and Bob Gibbs of Ohio. Other ads mention India or Mexico. (A29) CHART: A Barrage of Ads: In the last few weeks, at least 29 candidates, either directly or through their supporters, have unveiled advertisements tapping into Americans' anxiety over China's economic might. The list includes 19 Democrats and 10 Republicans. (Source: Campaign Media Analysis Group) (A29) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICS (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); OUTSOURCING (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (74%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); FACTORY WORKERS (70%); VOTERS & VOTING (69%); US PRESIDENTS (61%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); CORPORATE TAX (50%)

PERSON: BOB GIBBS (87%); BARBARA BOXER (73%); NICK J RAHALL II (58%); HARRY REID (58%); ZACHARY T SPACE (58%); PAT TOOMEY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); INDIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2010



258 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: Finance Leaders Decline to Press China on Currency

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The world's financial leaders failed on Saturday to reach agreement on how to contain an escalating currency dispute that has threatened to undermine global cooperation on economic recovery.
Despite loud calls from the United States, and more muted appeals by Europe, Japan and other countries, the annual meeting of the International Monetary Fund did not succeed in placing significant pressure on China to allow a prompt and meaningful rise in the value of its currency, the renminbi.
In essence, the topic was deferred until leaders of the Group of 20 economic powers, including President Obama, gather in Seoul, South Korea, in November. 
But the leaders here called on the I.M.F. to play a stronger role in monitoring how the policies of each member affect the others -- a move the Obama administration supports in the absence of more direct pressure on China to revalue the renminbi.
''The outcome of the I.M.F. meetings makes it clear that collective action remains an ideal rather than a reality,'' said Eswar S. Prasad, a former I.M.F. economist who now teaches at Cornell.
The meetings here focused in large part on the currency issue, underscoring its role as a flashpoint in relations between the United States and China and a source of global tension. The high jobless rate in the United States, along with the looming midterm elections, have prompted the administration to intensify calls for China to allow its currency to appreciate in the hope that it will increase American exports and help create jobs at home.
In addition, economists and some of the policymakers here have warned of the dangers of a currency war in which other nations weaken the value of their own currencies to better compete with China on the world market.
Slow growth in Europe and the United States has led to a surge of capital flowing into faster-growing economies like India, Mexico and South Korea, putting upward pressure on their currencies. Japan, Brazil and other countries have tried to limit currency appreciation.
Concern about currency-weakening applies to the United States as well. Expectations that the Federal Reserve will undertake a second round of bond purchases to lower long-term interest rates has pushed the dollar down against the euro and the yen.
Despite the volatility of the currency issue, the language in the concluding statement of the I.M.F.'s policy-setting committee was benign. It pledged to ''work toward a more balanced pattern of global growth, recognizing the responsibilities of surplus and deficit countries.''
The committee also vowed to ''address the challenges of large and volatile capital movements, which can be disruptive.''
''The language is ineffective,'' the I.M.F.'s managing director, Dominique Strauss-Kahn, conceded later. ''The language is not going to change things. Policies have to be adapted.''
The I.M.F. has said that the renminbi is substantially undervalued, but like American policymakers it is wary about pressuring China too severely, and has few tools to do so given that it operates by consensus. ''There is no way to believe that global growth can be rebalanced without some change in currency values,'' Mr. Strauss-Kahn said.
The committee called on the I.M.F. to ''deepen its work'' in areas like global imbalances.
Youssef Boutros Ghali, chairman of the committee and Egypt's finance minister, said members ''recognized explicitly that the solution to this issue is going to be cooperative'' and want the I.M.F. to help solve it.
Christine Lagarde, the French finance minister, said the monetary system would be a priority next year when her country plays host to the G-20. ''I regard it as an extremely positive outcome of these past two days that we talked about it extensively,'' she said.
Chinese officials tried to deflect the currency criticism, arguing that the large public debts of the richest countries and the easy-money policies of central banks like the Fed were also contributing to global imbalances.
China has agreed in principle to take steps like expanding its social safety net, rural development and the service sector, measures that would cut its dependence on exports and stimulate consumer spending. The United States has pledged to spend less and save more, at least in the long run.
Zhou Xiaochuan, the governor of China's central bank, who said on Friday that appreciation of the renminbi should only occur gradually, met with the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, on Saturday, in the latest of many discussions.
The I.M.F. committee agreed to amend the reports the staff produces about the economies of its 187 members. The reports will now take into account the international consequences of each nation's actions.
But in the past, China has resisted the release of reports critical of its policies, so the effectiveness of expanding the I.M.F.'s ''surveillance'' remains unclear.
Members also debated, but did not agree on, how to alter governance of the I.M.F. The United States has pushed for rapidly growing economies like China to have greater representation in the institution, hoping that in return Beijing will assume a greater responsibility for economic cooperation. But a proposal for Europe to surrender some seats on the I.M.F.'s board to emerging economies ran into resistance. The issue is not expected to be resolved until the G-20 meeting.
Compared to the past two annual meetings, in which the financial crisis galvanized cooperation, the mood this year was darker, according to participants at a forum here on global economic governance.
The cooperation of the last meetings ''was driven by fear,'' the financier George Soros said. ''Markets have come back to life, the fear has dissipated and the differences of opinion have become much sharper.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); EURO (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); ELECTIONS (72%); JOB CREATION (72%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (70%); INTEREST RATES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (64%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%); DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (57%) UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); EUROPE (93%); JAPAN (93%); BRAZIL (79%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2010



259 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 519 words

HEADLINE: Q&A

BYLINE: By JAY ROMANO

 BODY:
Of New Roommates and New Leases
QI have lived with a roommate in an unregulated apartment in Manhattan for two years. Both of us are on the lease, which expires at the end of October. My roommate is moving and I intend to live here with another roommate. The management company said that would be ''creating a new lease'' and that no new leases were being offered. Can they refuse to renew if I have a different roommate? 
A Joseph Burden, a Manhattan lawyer who represents landlords, said that a landlord of an unregulated apartment can refuse to renew a lease for any reason, other than those based on prohibited discrimination. He noted, however, that the roommate law allows a tenant to have a nonfamily member reside with him during the term of a lease. So the writer could have a new roommate if the landlord agreed to a lease renewal with the writer alone.
Keeping a Home in the Family
QMy wife and I bought a home in 1955 as ''tenants by the entirety.'' My wife died four years ago, but I have not changed the title. My son is to inherit the property after my death. Will this present a problem for him?
A Victor Metsch, a Manhattan real estate lawyer, said that a ''tenancy by the entirety'' is a form of joint ownership available only to a husband and wife. Upon the death of one spouse, he said, the surviving spouse automatically becomes the sole owner of the property, and does not have to change the title. So the writer's son should not have any problem obtaining title upon the death of the letter writer.
When a Co-op Board Rejects a Sublet
QI have owned a co-op in Queens for close to 10 years. The apartment was occupied by my mother until two months ago. I now want to rent out the apartment, but my request to sublet was denied by the board without any reason. What can I do?
A ''Most proprietary leases give the board of directors the right to reject or approve apartment sublets by co-op shareholders,'' said Steven D. Sladkus, a Manhattan co-op and condominium lawyer. And most leases specifically provide that the board may grant or withhold its consent for any reason or no reason at all. If the board ''has not engaged in self-dealing or acted in bad faith or discriminatorily,'' the board's denial is protected by the business judgment rule, and the courts typically will not ''second-guess'' board decisions.
Rent Increases for Stabilized Units
QWho decides what the annual rent increase will be for rent-stabilized apartments? Is there a cap on the increases?
A Rent increases for stabilized apartments are determined by the New York City Rent Guidelines Board, a nine-member panel appointed by the mayor. Lucas A. Ferrara, a Manhattan lawyer, says that that although there is no legal cap on the increase the board can approve, the board is required to take certain factors into account, including the economic state of the residential real estate market, the current and projected cost-of-living indexes, vacancy rates and other relevant information. For renewals that take effect through Sept. 30, 2011, increases have been set at 2.25 percent for a one-year lease and 4.5 percent for two years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); JOINTLY HELD PROPERTY (90%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (89%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (89%); RENT CONTROL (89%); LAWYERS (88%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (73%); CONDOMINIUMS (72%); BAD FAITH (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2010



260 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 308 words

HEADLINE: Eleni Gage, Emilio Baltodano

 BODY:
Eleni Nicholas Gage, a daughter of Joan Paulson Gage and Nicholas Gage of North Grafton, Mass., is to be married Sunday on the Greek island of Corfu to Emilio Sebastian Baltodano Oyanguren, the son of Carmen Oyanguren and Alvaro Baltodano Cantarero, both of Managua, Nicaragua. 
The Rev. Marios Rigos is to perform a Roman Catholic ceremony at the Cathedral of St. Joseph and Christopher, and afterward the Rev. Dimitri Koskinas is to perform a ceremony at the Greek Orthodox Church of the Panagia Mandrakina, both in the town of Corfu.
The bride, 36, is a freelance magazine writer in Miami Beach and the author of ''North of Ithaka'' (St. Martin's Press, 2005), a travel memoir in which she details the year she spent in a remote Greek village overseeing the rebuilding of the home that was the birthplace of her paternal grandmother, the late Eleni Gatzoyiannis, for whom the bride is named. She graduated from Harvard and received a Master of Fine Arts in creative writing from Columbia.
The bride's father is the author of ''Eleni: A Savage War, a Mother's Love, and a Son's Revenge -- A Personal Story'' (Random House, 1983), about the murder of his mother at the hands of the Communist rebels during the Greek Civil War. His most recent book is ''Greek Fire'' (Knopf, 2000).
The bridegroom, 35, is a vice president for sales and trading at the Mercon Coffee Corporation, an importer in Coral Gables, Fla. He graduated from Duke, from which he also received an M.B.A.
His mother is a librarian for St. Augustine Preparatory School in Managua. His father retired as a general in Nicaragua's army, and was the top aide to General Humberto Ortega, who was the chief of the Sandinista People's Army until the mid-1990s. The bridegroom's father is now the president of the National Free Trade Zone Commission in Managua, which promotes foreign investment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (78%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); RELIGION (76%); CREATIVE WRITING (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); CIVIL WAR (71%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (70%); SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONES (69%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (66%); TAX INCENTIVES (61%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (56%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) NICARAGUA (94%); GREECE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2010



261 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: 24/7: The Hospital That Never Sleeps

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Health Care's Lost Weekend'' (column, Oct. 4):
I read Peter Orszag's column just before going to work as an emergency physician, after spending my entire weekend working evening shifts in my emergency department.
Mr. Orszag didn't mention that patients do have a place to go see a doctor during the weekend, no matter the hour, no matter the complaint, and no matter their income, and that is America's emergency departments. 
We don't close up shop on Saturday or Sunday (indeed, we're busier than ever). Emergency physicians and nurses provide vital, often lifesaving care during those hours when there is no doctor to be found. We provide the safety net for health care 24/7, and often to populations that receive little or no care during usual ''business hours.''
Bonnie Salomon Deerfield, Ill., Oct. 4, 2010
To the Editor:
Peter Orszag would like hospitals to run seven days a week, and so would I. Unfortunately, to get the necessary professionals, technicians, supporting staff, backup for emergencies generated by the tests and so forth requires hiring people to work on the weekends. They all have families and lives outside the hospital, and justifiably want premium pay for weekend work.
Ordinary workers demand time and a half, or even double time, for weekends, but medicine gets the same pay for a holiday or Sunday as for Wednesday afternoon. Medicare, Medicaid and commercial insurers ignore time of day and day of week, and then they pay barely enough to keep the hospitals out of bankruptcy.
If you want to know why hospitals and doctors hibernate on weekends, follow the money.
Lewis M. Lebetkin Great Neck, N.Y., Oct. 4, 2010
The writer is an internist.
To the Editor:
I was troubled by Peter Orszag's suggestion that doctors should start working on weekends. His proposal suggests a lack of awareness of what social scientists call ''greedy institutions.''
Sociologists spend a lot of time worrying about the 24/7 economy and the corresponding pressure to work longer hours. These greedy workplaces (hospitals foremost among them) are a source of considerable work/family stress and perpetuate gender inequities both at home and in the workplace. (How many mothers can work the Saturday-Sunday shift in the E.R.? Who is likely to be appointed chief of cardiology as a result?)
So while I agree that patients deserve excellent medical care, the solution is not to add to the workload of already overworked medical professionals. Mr. Orszag needs to find a way to serve patients' needs without negatively affecting already fragile family lives.
Marissa Martino Golden Narberth, Pa., Oct. 4, 2010
The writer is an associate professor of political science at Bryn Mawr College, where she teaches a course on women, work and family.
To the Editor:
Persuading physicians at large teaching hospitals like N.Y.U. Langone Medical Center to work on weekends masks the reality that Langone (and all similar organizations) has a ready supply of interns and residents who are already required to perform that vast majority of ''weekend work.''
Far greater efficiencies and savings could be achieved by more evenly distributing workflow at the thousands of nonteaching community hospitals that do not have access to interns and residents. It is in these hospitals where the vast majority of people are treated.
As any experienced unit clerk or patient registrar can tell you, the systemic flaws associated with health care inefficiency are buried deep within the culture of hospitals.
Simple improvements to basic registration procedures, like quickly reporting patient discharges to a centralized area rather than ''hiding beds'' just before shift changes, would have a positive impact on both patient outcome and financial performance.
Michael Gera New York, Oct. 4, 2010
The writer is a self-employed information systems professional and consultant to the health care industry.
To the Editor:
Peter Orszag writes, ''If you can't measure it, you can't manage it,'' but neglects the corollary, ''Managing to measure is not the measure of a manager.'' The delivery of health care involves complicated, interconnected factors that produce tremendous variability in outcomes.
The measurement approaches touted by many of those pushing for reform are imported from business models that involve far simpler systems than what occurs in medicine. Measuring one component of health care delivery and forcing changes based on that measurement, while neglecting other important but harder-to-measure variables, may worsen efficiencies and lower quality of care.
We should certainly explore new health care delivery approaches, but let's not assume that squeezing one side of a water balloon doesn't increase tension on the other.
Boadie Dunlop Atlanta, Oct. 4, 2010
The writer is a psychiatrist.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY TIM GOUGH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMERGENCY ROOMS (90%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); FAMILY (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (85%); WRITERS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); INTERNAL MEDICINE (77%); WOMEN WORKERS (77%); WORK-LIFE BALANCE (77%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (75%); OVERTIME (74%); MEDICAID (73%); CARDIOLOGY (72%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (71%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (71%); SOCIOLOGY (66%); MEDICARE (64%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); GENDER EQUALITY (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (50%); COMMERCIAL LINES INSURANCE (50%)

PERSON: PETER ORSZAG (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2010



262 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 968 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
KYRGYZ TENSIONS SIMMER
Amid Inquiry Into Unrest
Local authorities in Kyrgyzstan continue to investigate the outbreak of ethnic violence that gripped the provincial city of Osh four months ago. The handling of the investigation has seemed to deepen the hatred between the ethnic Kyrgyz and Uzbek groups in the remote and poor Central Asian nation. PAGE 6
SCOTTISH AID WORKER KILLED 
A Scottish aid worker who had been taken hostage two weeks ago by the Taliban in eastern Afghanistan was killed early Saturday during an unsuccessful rescue raid, according to the British Foreign Office. PAGE 11
PAKISTAN TO REOPEN ROUTE
Pakistan will reopen a crucial border crossing used to carry supplies to NATO troops in Afghanistan, the authorities said on Saturday -- the 10th day of a blockade that has raised tensions with Washington and left tanker trucks stranded and under attack. PAGE 11
SPAIN'S CRISIS BATTERS UNIONS
A general strike in Spain last month reflected the difficult position of the unions, which face an economy moving away from industry and a work force that many say the unions do not represent well. PAGE 8
National
RISE EXPECTED IN POT USE,
As Baby Boomers Age
Fewer than 1 percent of people 65 and older said they had smoked marijuana in the past year, according to a 2009 survey by the federal Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration. But as the generation that embraced marijuana as teenagers passes into middle age, doctors expect to see more marijuana use by their elderly patients. PAGE 13
DROPPING BID FOR REACTOR
Constellation Energy said it was dropping out of negotiations for a loan guarantee for a proposed third nuclear reactor at its Calvert Cliffs site, near Washington, in a disagreement over the fee it would pay the Treasury in exchange for the guarantee. PAGE 14
Metropolitan
AN OPTIMISTIC SELLER
Of Disaster Plans
Catherine Hooper is among the more glamorous entrepreneurs in disaster preparedness, a field associated with camouflage fatigues and Apocalypse-fearing stockpilers. But she is not alone in seeing the business prospects. PAGE 1
Sports
A PIONEERING MARATHONER
Still Among the Elite
Joan Benoit Samuelson took her victory lap after the inaugural Olympic marathon for women at the 1984 Los Angeles Games. Now 53, she could become the first woman to run a sub-three-hour marathon in five decades at Sunday's Chicago Marathon. PAGE 1
THE CHIEFS' STRONG START
The Kansas City Chiefs are in tapping-the-brakes mode, trying to manage expectations for a team that, at 3-0, is improbably the last, remaining unbeaten club in the N.F.L. PAGE 1
THE PATRIOTS' WAY
With their trade of Randy Moss, one of the greatest receivers ever, the New England Patriots have once again demonstrated their idiosyncratic approach to personnel: the system wins Super Bowls, not the players. William C. Rhoden, Sports of the Times. PAGE 3
Obituaries
PHILIPPA FOOT, 90
A philosopher who argued that moral judgments have a rational basis, she introduced the renowned ethical thought experiment known as the Trolley Problem. PAGE 30
Business
IT'S NOT NICE
To Mess With J.R.
Larry Hagman, the actor famous for playing J.R. Ewing on ''Dallas,'' the long-running, '80s-era nighttime soap opera, was awarded $1.1 million in compensatory damages by a securities arbitration panel -- the highest such award given to an individual this year. Gretchen Morgenson, Fair Game. PAGE 1
TAKING A TRADITIONAL TACK
The shoemaker Tod's runs like a traditional, Old World family business, despite being a successful multinational, multibillion-dollar company. PAGE 1
KEEPING OUR DISTANCE
Facebook, which tries to replicate our real-world relationships online, now helps maintain those connections, and it preserves the weak ties in social networks without creating obligations. Damon Darlin, Everybody's Business. PAGE 5
Automobiles
THE PACKARD MUSEUM
In a world of interactive, Imax-enhanced, iPod-guided automotive museums, the historical collection at America's Packard Museum in Ohio is something different, and decidedly worthwhile: an authentic artifact of the history of the Packard Motor Car Company. Sports, Page 12
Magazine
PIE DESIGN
And Change
Food can bring people together, but can it heal Greensboro, Ala., one of the state's poorest counties? Page 58
Book Review
NEWARK, PHILIP ROTH
And the Summer of '44
Set mostly in Newark in 1944, Philip Roth's tender new novel, ''Nemesis,'' tells the story of a military reject who turns a polio outbreak into his own patriotic battleground. Page 1
ARTS & LEISURE
Looking to a SneakerFor a Band's Big BreakConverse sneakers have been wornby generations of musicians, andwith its latest project, the shoe com-pany is now aiming to become a pa-tron of the rock arts. Converse is notalone: lifestyle brands are becomingthe new record labels. PAGE 1 Inside the Curio CabinetWhen the set designer began towork on ''Bloody Bloody AndrewJackson,'' a new genre-bending mu-sical, her inspirations ranged fromBrooklyn dive bars to Victorian par-lors. PAGE 24
Editorial
LETHAL FORCE UNDER LAW
The Obama administration needs to show the world that it is complying with international law in its shadow war against terrorists. Page 7
HELPING HOMEOWNERS
The government should be doing more with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to assist homeowners. Page 7
THANK YOU AND GOOD LUCK
It is hard to overstate how far the newly retired W.M.A.P. satellite carried us in our understanding of the universe. Page 7
Op-Ed
FRANK RICH
Social networking technology has not made good on its utopian promise of rejuvenated political engagement and transparency. Page 8
THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
The fact that we haven't passed an energy bill reflects a broader power failure in Washington. Page 8
MAUREEN DOWD
From an 1854 Wagner opera to ''The Social Network,'' it seems as if the passions that drive humans stay remarkably constant. Page 9

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CANNABIS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (87%); MARATHONS (85%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (84%); SPORTS (84%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); DISASTER PLANNING (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); TALIBAN (78%); LABOR FORCE (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); SENIOR CITIZENS (71%); HOSTAGE TAKING (71%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (70%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (68%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (67%); AGING (66%); OLYMPICS (66%); BABY BOOMERS (66%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (65%); MENTAL HEALTH (65%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (64%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (61%); ARMED FORCES (54%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE & MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES ADMINISTRATION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) KYRGYZSTAN (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); CENTRAL ASIA (91%); AFGHANISTAN (91%); ASIA (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (72%); SPAIN (71%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2010



263 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 519 words

HEADLINE: Emily Grant, Matthew Turner

BYLINE: By VINCENT M. MALLOZZI

 BODY:
Emily Hope Grant and Matthew Demetri Turner, both Marine captains, are to be married Sunday in Brooklyn. The Rev. John K. Lardas, a Greek Orthodox priest, was to perform the ceremony at SS. Constantine & Helen Cathedral, where he is the presiding priest. 
The bride, 30, is a civil affairs officer at Marine Corps Base Quantico in Quantico, Va., where the bridegroom, 33, is an intelligence officer.
The bride will be taking her husband's name. She graduated from Yale. She is a daughter of Dr. Patricia Kavanagh and James Grant of Brooklyn. The bride's father is the editor of Grant's Interest Rate Observer, the financial markets publication. He is the author of ''Mr. Market Miscalculates'' (Axios, 2008). He works in Manhattan. Her mother is a neurologist in private practice in Brooklyn.
The bridegroom graduated from Clark University in Worcester, Mass. He is a son of Irene Turner and Dr. Clyde Turner, also of Brooklyn. The bridegroom's mother is a first-grade teacher at the Packer Collegiate Institute in Brooklyn. His father, a retired internist, practiced at Maimonides Medical Center in Brooklyn.
Although the couple grew up a half-block apart in Brooklyn Heights and their parents were friends, they first met in Fallujah, Iraq, in August 2006. He was already a captain, and she was a second lieutenant at the time.
Captain Turner's mother had already told him in an e-mail that she had run into a friend whose daughter had joined the Marine Corps. She also mentioned that the young woman -- Lieutenant Grant -- was very tall (she is 6-foot-2).
There were probably very few female second lieutenants matching that description at Camp Fallujah, and Captain Turner was pretty sure he had the right one in his sights at the chow hall a few months later. Then he saw the name Grant on her uniform.
''Hi, I think you might know my mother,'' he said to her. He described the conversation that followed as ''very stiff and formal.''
She also remembered an anxious exchange. ''I was only a second lieutenant and was always very nervous around captains because they usually talked to you about something you did wrong,'' she explained.
Captain Turner, who was instantly interested in his fellow-Brooklynite, walked away feeling quite empty after that awkward first exchange. ''Well, this isn't going anywhere,'' he recalled telling himself.
In the ensuing weeks, they began seeing each other frequently at the small military base, and talked about mutual friends from their neighborhood, their favorite restaurants and anything else Brooklyn.
''At that point, I really had a crush on him,'' Captain Grant said. ''But Fallujah is not a really good place to start dating, so we kept up a relationship that was appropriate for a combat zone.''
In January 2007, he was transferred to Camp Pendleton in California. A month later, she was transferred there as well.
Far from the combat zone, they began dating steadily.
''The whole thing was so serendipitous,'' Captain Grant said. ''If our moms had decided to take a different route that day and not bumped into one another, we probably would never have met.'' VINCENT M. MALLOZZI

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (94%); ARMED FORCES (89%); MILITARY BASES (77%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (76%); NEUROSCIENCE (73%); WRITERS (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); INTERNAL MEDICINE (68%); INTEREST RATES (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); WORCESTER, MA, USA (56%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (55%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2010



264 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 332 words

HEADLINE: Courtney Knowlton, Terence Li

 BODY:
Christine Courtney Knowlton, the daughter of Lisa and Oliver Knowlton of Denver, is to be married Sunday to Terence Kuan-Feng Li, the son of Mimi Yin Lam and Peter S. Li, both of Saskatoon, Saskatchewan. Al Wulff, a friend of the couple who received authorization from the Commonwealth of Massachusetts to solemnize the marriage, is to officiate at Gedney Farm in New Marlborough, Mass. 
Ms. Knowlton, who is 27 and will keep her name, is known as Courtney. She is the program director and a humanities teacher at the East Harlem School, a private school in Manhattan. She graduated from Amherst and is studying for a master's in educational leadership at New York University.
Her father is the president of the interactive division of MediaNews Group, a newspaper company with headquarters in Denver. Her mother is studying for a master's in creative writing at the University of Denver.
The bride is a granddaughter of Winthrop Knowlton of Manhattan, a former chairman of Harper & Row and a former president of the New York City Ballet. She is also a granddaughter of the late Attilio Castellani, known as Rocky, a professional middleweight boxer in the 1940s and '50s, and later a judge of boxing matches.
Mr. Li, also 27, is the vice president for research and marketing at Track.com, an investment research firm in Manhattan. He graduated from Yale, where he also received an M.B.A. He also holds a master's in economic history from the London School of Economics.
His mother is a computer systems analyst for the Saskatoon Health Region, a health care agency there. His father is a professor of sociology at the University of Saskatchewan, also in Saskatoon.
The couple met in 2005 when they both began working at CitySquash, an after-school program in the Bronx that introduces students from low-income families to the sport and also helps them apply for scholarships to preparatory schools.
She helped students apply to high schools, and he coached squash and managed events for the organization.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRANDCHILDREN (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); MARRIAGE (78%); FAMILY (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (76%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (75%); HIGH SCHOOLS (75%); SOCIOLOGY (75%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (75%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (75%); BOXING (71%); SQUASH (70%); DANCE COMPANIES (70%); POOR POPULATION (69%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (67%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); SASKATCHEWAN, CANADA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2010



265 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 297 words

HEADLINE: Christine Turner, Scott Sasso

 BODY:
Christine Faith Turner and Scott Alexander Sasso were married Saturday at the weekend home of an aunt and uncle of the bride, Diana Owyang and George Silberschatz, in Occidental, Calif. Dr. Molly Joel Coye, a Universal Life minister, officiated. 
Ms. Turner, 27, is keeping her name. She is an independent documentary producer in Brooklyn. She was the associate producer of ''A Family Is a Family Is a Family: A Rosie O'Donnell Celebration,'' which was on HBO this year, and the director and a producer of ''Immigration: Beyond the Headlines,'' three shorts that were made for advocacy organizations. She graduated from New York University.
She is a daughter of Kathleen Owyang Turner and Charles B. Turner Jr. of San Francisco. The bride's father is the executive director of the Community Design Center, an organization in San Francisco that provides architectural services to low-income residents and community organizations. Her mother is a consultant to nonprofit organizations, providing executive coaching services and fund-raising and management advice. She retired as the executive director of the San Francisco Education Fund, which offers grants and other support to public schools.
Mr. Sasso, 36, is the founder and president of 10 Deep Clothing, a men's apparel company in Brooklyn. He graduated from Vassar.
He is the son of Diann Harris-Wright of Salt Lake City, and Alexander F. Sasso of Manhattan. The bridegroom's mother is a painter who had an exhibition at the Leonardo in Salt Lake City in 2008. She retired as a fashion designer and owner of a New York boutique business that bore her name. The bridegroom is the stepson of Marshall N. Wright, who is the director of business development in the Utah Governor's Office of Economic Development, which is in Salt Lake City.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); EXECUTIVES (90%); APPAREL MFG (77%); FILM DIRECTORS (77%); POOR POPULATION (76%); CLOTHING LABELS (75%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (75%); FUNDRAISING (74%); EDUCATION FUNDING (74%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (74%); FASHION DESIGN (73%); FASHION DESIGNERS (73%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (72%); MEN'S CLOTHING (70%); FASHION & APPAREL (70%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); GRANTS & GIFTS (67%); IMMIGRATION (55%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (53%); BUSINESS COACHING & MENTORING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) UTAH, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2010



266 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 31A

LENGTH: 1234 words

HEADLINE: Lesbian Candidate for Oakland Mayor Gains Surprise Allies

BYLINE: By ZUSHA ELINSON. 
zelinson@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
In 2008, church leaders from Oakland were on the front lines of the campaign to ban same-sex marriage.
Two years later, some of those same leaders are surprisingly backing Rebecca Kaplan, a City Council member who would become the first openly gay mayor of a major Bay Area city.
A former rabbinical student, Ms. Kaplan makes campaign stops with her well-thumbed, gold-trimmed bible, as she did Wednesday at the mayoral debate at Allen Temple Baptist Church, one of the largest black churches in the city.
Dressed in a dark suit and an open-collared shirt, Ms. Kaplan, who enunciates with the clarity and precision of a preacher, used part of Psalm 118 to make a campaign point: ''The rock that the builder rejected shall become the topmost cornerstone, and Oakland will become the most desirable place to live.'' The audience applauded. 
''You have got a Jewish lesbian white woman who comes to black churches and sings with the choir and quotes Scripture better than the members -- I just love her,'' said Pastor Ray Williams of First Morning Star Baptist Church, who spoke at rallies in favor of Proposition 8, the bar to same-sex marriage. He is now endorsing Ms. Kaplan.
Ms. Kaplan, 40, was elected to the Council in 2008 after serving on the AC Transit board, and political consultants said her broad challenge will be to woo older voters who are familiar with the two front-runners in the race --Don Perata, 65, a former state senator, and Jean Quan, 60, a longtime councilwoman. Ms. Kaplan appeals to the younger, hipper demographic in the city.
The latest poll from the Oakland Metropolitan Chamber of Commerce has Mr. Perata and Ms. Quan close together, with Ms. Kaplan third. She is also hundreds of thousands of dollars behind in fund-raising, with just $12,000 cash on hand at the end of September, compared with $125,000 for Ms. Quan and $147,000 for Mr. Perata.
Jobs, crime and the city's deficit are key issues for all the candidates. For Ms. Kaplan, the beginning of the solution to Oakland's crime problem is economic development.
''We need to build our economic base and that's how we solve this for the long term,'' Ms. Kaplan said.
Ms. Kaplan has already led an effort to attract, tax and regulate what has become a booming medical marijuana industry in Oakland. She co-authored the legislation to allow industrial-scale medical marijuana growing facilities in the city -- legislation that garnered national attention. She also co-authored a measure on this fall's ballot that would raise taxes on medical marijuana.
As Election Day nears, the candidates are courting Oakland's many undecided voters. And with no viable black candidate, the city's churches -- powerful political forces in the black community -- have become a major focus. For Ms. Kaplan, it is a novel quest, given the churches' role in the campaign to pass Proposition 8.
''Oakland is the city in California with the highest per capita of churches and the highest per capita of lesbians,'' said Ms. Kaplan, who is married to her partner, Astraea. ''Any strife between the two is overblown, and, really, why not have that end here in Oakland?
Ms. Kaplan, a Democrat like her main rivals, was involved in one of the most vitriolic clashes between the gay community and the religious community in Oakland this year. Gay activists bitterly opposed the reappointment of Lorenzo Hoopes -- the 96-year-old former president of the Mormon Temple in Oakland -- to the obscure board of directors that runs the Paramount Theater.
Mr. Hoopes had donated $26,000 to the campaign for Proposition 8, which angered Ms. Kaplan, who also criticized the theater for its lack of gay and transgender programming. In January, Mr. Hoopes's reappointment was withdrawn and remains in limbo.
The Bay Area's prominent gay newspaper, the Bay Area Reporter, cheered with the headline ''LGBT Oaklanders flex their political muscle.'' But religious Oaklanders and columnists at The Oakland Tribune and The San Francisco Chronicle said the criticism was an attack on the free speech rights of Mr. Hoopes, a longtime Oakland resident and former Safeway executive.
This summer, at the urging of Paul Cobb -- a mutual friend who is the publisher of the black newspaper The Oakland Post -- Mr. Hoopes and Ms. Kaplan met for what Ms. Kaplan likened to President Obama's beer summit. She arrived with her Hebrew bible, he with his Book of Mormon. And for 45 minutes, they quoted Scripture and debated translations.
''We both came into it thinking we would not get along, and we were both kind of shocked how well we got along,'' Ms. Kaplan said
By the end, there was an accord. Ms. Kaplan said she would vote for Mr. Hoopes to remain on the Paramount board. And Mr. Hoopes said he was supporting Ms. Kaplan's bid for mayor by talking to his friends. He also wrote her campaign a $200 check.
''She's very well educated with her law degree, very energetic, and very well versed in religion,'' said Mr. Hoopes, adding that Proposition 8 was not discussed.
Mr. Hoopes said that he still held his views against same-sex marriage, but that Ms. Kaplan's sexuality was ''not a concern to me or rarely to anyone else.''
Doug Linney, a consultant who ran Ms. Kaplan's council campaign but is now supporting Mr. Perata, said he was amazed at the people she had won over from conservative backgrounds, unions and businesses, which he said she had done with a combination of ''smarts and charm.''
Still, he said, he has a hard time seeing her winning. ''The voters have been whiplashed by Ron Dellums, whom they thought for sure was going to help the city,'' Mr. Linney said. ''I think they're looking for someone who's going to be very hands on and can manage Oakland, and she is still going to appeal to some voters as too new and inexperienced to do that.''
While Ms. Kaplan is outgoing and charismatic, she lacks the experience of her opponents. Mr. Perata has been endorsed by a number of pastors, including Bishop Bob Jackson, who heads the 7,000-member Acts Full Gospel Church, known for its political influence in East Oakland.
When Ms. Kaplan sought Mr. Jackson's endorsement, he said he told her, ''I don't think you've had a chance to warm up your seat yet.''
Mr. Jackson credited Mr. Perata, a former East Oakland supervisor, with helping to secure a $500,000 grant from the state to finance his Men of Valor program, which helps men who are released from prison to re-enter society. The two men met as Oakland struggled through the crack epidemic.
''He's one of the few that's reaching out to the ecumenical community,'' Mr. Jackson said of Mr. Perata. ''He's not a stranger to us.''
That familiarity is important, but with many older blacks moving to the suburbs in recent years, the power of the churches and the demographic is diminishing, political consultants said.
Still, churches like Acts Full Gospel and First African Methodist Church, with its 3,800 members, get people on the ground to help out with campaigns. ''We do the walking; we do the telephone banking; we ask our members to volunteer; we do voter registration,'' said the Rev. Harold Mayberry of First African Methodist Church, who has endorsed Ms. Kaplan.
''I was looking for a candidate No. 1 who can mobilize people, who has not necessarily been in the system for a long time,'' Mr. Mayberry said. ''We've got to move past whether a person's lifestyle is gay or straight. Oakland is in a terrible situation.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Rebecca Kaplan, who is running for Oakland mayor, addressed members of Allen Temple Baptist Church and others on Wednesday at an election forum as the timekeeper signaled that she had 15 seconds left. The event, left, drew a large crowd. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ADITHYA SAMBAMURTHY/THE BAY CITIZEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (93%); GAYS & LESBIANS (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); MAYORS (90%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); MARRIAGE LAW (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); JEWS & JUDAISM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); MARRIAGE (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (66%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (65%); CANNABIS (63%); MEDICAL MARIJUANA (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2010



267 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; THE EUROPE ISSUE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 2615 words

HEADLINE: A Finnish City Prepares for The Limelight

BYLINE: By JOSHUA HAMMER

 BODY:
''LIFE ON A LEAF,'' a whimsical yellow house that sits in a wooded park at the edge of Turku in southern Finland, is a lopsided construction with a bright red, blue and green roof and a leaf-shaped floor plan. Inside, it's even wackier: curved walls, windows in the shape of teardrops, and a catwalk with a tiny video screen embedded in the floor that shows an endless loop of antlike commuters rushing through Grand Central Terminal in New York.
On an unseasonably warm September morning I traveled to the Leaf house, which has become something of a local landmark, passing Turku's harbor overlooked by pine-forested hills, then turning into a clearing in the woods. Jan-Erik Andersson -- the artist, sculptor and interior designer who, with contributions from 20 other artists, created the place, and gives tours to groups of visitors who make arrangements in advance -- was waiting for me. On the front lawn we lingered in front of his work-in-progress: a fiberglass sauna shaped like a garlic clove, one of five Finnish bathhouses that will be on display in SaunaLab, an exhibition at Turku 2011, the coming yearlong culture festival. 
''We're running tests on it now,'' said Mr. Andersson, whose work has been shown in London, Oslo and other European cities.
Mr. Andersson's quirky sensibility is, in many ways, emblematic of the place where he was born and works: Turku, a free-spirited, artistically inclined city of about 175,000 people at the mouth of the Aura River. Over the years, Turku has produced some of the country's leading artists, among them, the performance artist Meiju Niskala, the sculptor Kim Simonsson and the composer Ulf Langbacka. The city boasts one of Finland's best art academies, not to mention a circus-training school. A half-dozen people I met there claimed that electronic music was born in Turku; indeed, the annual Down by the Laituri festival, the oldest city festival in Finland, is one of the best musical events in Nordic Europe.
Yet it's a safe bet to say that many people outside northern Europe have never heard of the place. ''When I tell people where I'm from, some say to me, 'Oh, yeah, Turkey, I've been to that country,' '' said Saara Malila, communications manager for the Turku 2011 Foundation, which is running the festival where Mr. Andersson's sauna will be on display.
Now one of Nordic Europe's best-kept secrets is hoping to regain a prominent place on the map. The European Union has anointed Turku -- along with Talinn, the capital of Finland's Baltic neighbor Estonia -- one of its two European Capitals of Culture for 2011. Festival organizers say that they hope to receive about two million visitors from across Europe and $200 million in additional city revenues.
For Turku, the hoped-for recognition has been a long time coming. This tidy, strategically placed coastal town was Finland's most important city for five centuries, and the center of its cultural, religious and commercial life. Turku's prominence faded after the Finland War of 1808 and 1809, however, when Russia seized the Grand Duchy of Finland from the Swedish Empire and made Helsinki the new capital. (Finland won its independence in 1917.)
Today, Turku is Finland's fifth-largest city, but it is one of its most inviting: a laid-back town that is the gateway to the Archipelago Sea -- a latticework of perhaps 20,000 pristine islands in the Baltic. Its cultural events, often held in boldly unconventional settings with an eclectic repertory, have drawn crowds from across the Nordic countries.
Topi Lehtipuu, a Paris-based Finnish tenor and an artistic director of the Turku Music Festival, an annual festival of classical music, recently performed a concert in the attic of an abandoned gas storage tank. ''The acoustics were fantastic,'' he told me over a dinner of bass and raw herring at Oskarin Olohuone, a seafood restaurant at Hamburger Bors, one of the city's oldest hotels. The restaurant, among the city's most popular, was bustling, and outside, the sidewalks were filled with people heading off to the bars and restaurants that line the streets of downtown Turku -- places like the Cosmic Comic Cafe, a pub where you can read comic books while drinking a local beer; a former schoolhouse that's been reborn as the Brewery Restaurant Koulu; and even -- yikes -- a one-time public lavatory that has come back to life as the Pub Restaurant Puutorin Vessa.
For European Union officials, Turku's profile as a sophisticated but relatively unknown artistic haven made it a natural fit for a Capital of Culture -- a designation conceived in 1985 by the actress turned Greek Minister of Culture, Melina Mercouri, and her French counterpart, Jack Lang. Its purpose is unabashedly promotional: to highlight a city's cultural achievements, raise its profile and generate tourism and urban renewal.
''Being named a cultural capital can accelerate change, make you more attractive to tourists, and put you on the world map,'' said Dennis Abbott, the education and cultural spokesman for the European Commission, who cited Glasgow (the 1990 winner), Lille (a co-winner, with Genoa, in 2004) and Liverpool (2008) as three cities that experienced a long-term economic bounce from the designation. Turku will spend $50 million -- a combination of government funds, European Union money, corporate sponsorships and entrance fees -- to put on 1,500 cultural events throughout 2011. On the list are operas, concerts, puppet shows, art exhibitions, storytelling, environmental workshops and even experimental hybrids such as ''accordion wrestling, '' during which the Finnish accordion maestro Kimmo Pohjonen will play to the choreographed accompaniment of two grapplers.
Despite the potential benefits, not everybody in Turku has welcomed the designation, especially those who have been affected by a downturn in the local economy, which is based largely on shipbuilding, as well as biotechnology and information technology.
''It was hard at first to make people see that it was worth doing, but many of them have come to understand that it's an investment in the city, Ms. Malila said. ''The shouting has died down.''
Now many hope that the hoopla will establish Turku as a magnet for artists and place it permanently on the tourist map. ''We'd be a failure if this lasts for only one year,'' said Cay Sevon, the chief executive of the Turku 2011 Foundation. The designation, she said, ''should change the city in a profound way.''
My visit to Turku took place months before the inauguration of the festival in January, but the city was already preparing. Every available exhibition or performance space -- from the Puropelto school auditorium, where amateurs and professionals were in rehearsal for a revival of ''Hair,'' to a railroad engineering workshop turned performance hall called Logomo, to the Turku Art Museum -- had been requisitioned for events.
''There's definitely a sense of excitement,'' said my Turku Tours guide, Anu Salminen, who met me in the lobby of the Hamburger Bors, which contains both starkly modern and charming 19th-century wings, and, on the top floor, an impressive array of saunas. The hotel is just off Market Square, which was designed by the German-born architect, Carl Ludvig Engel after a fire destroyed almost all of the city in 1827. The square is the place where people gather, shop in open-air stalls for produce and visit such architectural jewels as the Russian Orthodox Church and the neo-Classical Swedish Theater, Finland's oldest, built in 1839. (The theater caters to the 5 percent of the city's population who speak Swedish as their first language -- a legacy of Turku's days as a strategic fortress town of the Swedish empire.)
''Helsinki was a fisherman's village with six huts when we were the capital,'' Ms. Salminen told me, betraying a hint of the one-upmanship that still affects some residents of Turku.
A morning stroll along the Aura, a narrow waterway that winds through the heart of Turku, brought us past restored 19th-century buildings, leafy plazas and a promenade lined with linden trees that is the city's most popular gathering spot. We walked past bicyclists pedaling leisurely along the waterway path, local university students reading on verdant lawns and smartly dressed couples sipping cappuccinos in sidewalk cafes.
Here, too, are some of the city's most prominent cultural attractions, including the new Turku City Main Library -- a gleaming glass construction -- and the renovated Old Library Square, where outdoor plays and concerts will take place during the festival. Near the square is the Turku Bookcafe, a charming little cafe and bookshop that serves vegan cakes and pies and features live music, readings and other cultural events. Ms. Malila and I stopped for lunch at the riverside cafe Blanko, a popular lunch spot that serves an excellent marinated feta salad and grilled Finnish salmon, along with a white chocolate and rhubarb panna cotta for dessert.
The spiffiness of central Turku gave way to a slightly rougher edge as we followed the Aura toward the Baltic Sea. A few two-tiered riverboat restaurants (most now closed after the summer season) and a three-masted schooner turned maritime museum faced off across the river. In the summer, the riverboats are among Turku's most popular places to go. People can sit on the deck at dusk and drink beer or hard cider while listening to music and enjoying the sight of the city lights reflected on the river. Old tobacco factories and warehouses have been reborn in recent years as condominiums and cultural centers; an old ferry, the last vestige of the 19th-century Aura, still fords the river 365 days a year, cutting a channel through the ice during the long winter.
The Port of Turku, one of the engines of Turku's economy, lies just beyond a bend in the river: the Oasis of the Seas, the world's largest passenger ship, was built in the shipyard here for Royal Caribbean, and a larger vessel, the Allure of the Seas, is scheduled for delivery soon. But there are no plans for future shipbuilding, and the 8,000 or so people employed in the shipyard and related businesses face the imminent possibility of unemployment. ''We're looking to culture to rescue us,'' Ms. Malila said.
Many of the city's hopes are vested in a daring project that is under way in a former warehouse and railway maintenance shed that dates back to the era of the czars. Sold by Finnish Rail six years ago to a company that tried, unsuccessfully, to turn it into an amusement park, the cavernous brick building is about to be reborn as a 250,000-square-foot cultural center, concert hall, exhibition space, restaurant and collection of artists' studios; Logomo. Hartela, a Finnish firm, is pouring 50 million euros (about $67 million) into gutting and remodeling the dilapidated structure, gambling that Turku will become a magnet for arts and culture after 2011.
''It's a risk,'' Jukka Makinen, the project manager, admitted, as he led me around the half-renovated building. Recognizing that Turku itself isn't big enough to sustain a cultural center of this size, he hopes that it will draw on the roughly 650,000 people who live within an hour of the city. Ms. Malila said the project could stem the drain of Turku artists and musicians to Helsinki and beyond. ''We can say to the artists, 'there's now a reason for you to stay,'' she said.
Amid the cultural whirl that's overtaking Turku this season, I took time to visit two of the city's perennial attractions: its cathedral and castle. In the mid-12th century, legend says, Bishop Henry of Sweden baptized Finnish animists at a spring called Kupittaa, introducing Christianity to the heathen Finns, and later erected a small wooden church beside the Aura River. Today, its Gothic successor built on the same spot, the 350-foot-high Cathedral of Turku, remains the most important church of Finland, an impressive cross between Westminster Abbey and St.-Germain-des-Pres.
The Turku Castle, a medieval fortress at the mouth of the Aura River, is now a popular exhibition space (when I was there, the space was showing Finnish paintings from the Russian imperial period, 1809 to 1917) and banquet hall. Behind the castle's thick stone walls, interlocking corridors and courtyards offer hints of its glory days in the mid-16th century, when the castle served as the sumptuous court of the Duke of Finland.
That evening, at Oskarin Olohuone, the restaurant at Hamburger Bors, I joined the opera singer Topi Lehtipuu and several other people involved in the coming cultural festival. In the convivial atmosphere, we dined on fresh fish from the Baltic and talked about the idiosyncratic vitality of the Turku artistic scene.
Mr. Lehtipuu, who spends much of the year on the road, views the city as a place to recharge his creative batteries and seek out new environments for his music. ''I come here for the spaces,'' he told me. Two months ago, he said, a local impresario took over the city's abandoned maximum security prison and staged a piano-and-baritone concert amid the jail cells, featuring the music of Tom Waits and Robert Schumann. ''People here are always demanding something new, '' Mr. Lehtipuu said.
In Turku, they are all but certain to find it.
IF YOU GO
The European Capital of Culture year begins Jan. 15. Information about events and tickets in Turku can be found at turku2011.fi/en/2011-corner and at www.turku2011.fi/en/tickets.
HOTELS
I stayed at the Sokos Hamburger Bors (Kauppiaskatu 6; 358-2-337-381 www.sokoshotels.fi), a busy, sprawling hotel right by Market Square, with two good restaurants -- one Scandinavian, the other Provencal. Rooms start at 90 euros, $120 at $1.33 to the euro, a night.
The Park Hotel (Rauhankatu 1; 358-2-273-2555; parkhotelturku.fi) is a pleasant boutique hotel set in a restored turn-of-the-20th-century villa, in the city center by Puolalanpuisto park. It has 21 furnished rooms, including a suite, and a mascot -- an African gray parrot -- in the lobby. A double goes for 130 euros.
The Centro Hotel (Yliopistonkatu 12; 358-2-211-8100; centrohotel.com) is a modern boutique hotel downtown, with cozy rooms from 86 euros for a double.
The Radisson Blu Marina Palace Hotel (Linnankatu 32; 358-2-01234-710 ; www.radissonblu.com/hotel-turku), a newly renovated hotel overlooking the Aura River; rooms from 90 euros.
RESTAURANTS
Blanko (Aurakatu 1; 358-2-233-3966; blanko.net), at the foot of the Aura Bridge, is one of Turku's most popular and stylish restaurants. A dinner for two costs about 90 euros.
Brewery Restaurant Koulu (Eerikinkatu 18; 358-2-274-5757) , downtown, is billed as Finland's largest brewery restaurant. You can sample the house beers and Koulu's Wine House cellar with 80 different labels, and visit the brewery in the basement. A dinner for two costs about 100 euros.
Restaurant Mami (Linnankatu 3; 358-2-231-1111; mami.fi ), on the waterfront, in Turku's historic district, serves simple food in an unpretentious atmosphere; dinner for two about 100 euros.
Restaurant Herman (Lantinen Rantakatu 37; 358-2-230-3333; ravintolaherman.com) set in a century-old building on the Aura, features good food and a terrace. Dinner for two goes for about 120 euros.
Cosmic Cafe (Kauppiaskatu 4; 358-2-250-4942; cosmic.fi) offers cider and beer from across Europe, and a comic book collection.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 24, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A picture caption on Oct. 10 with an article about Turku, Finland, which has been named a 2011 European Capital of Culture, misidentified a square in the city. The photograph showing a bicyclist crossing a square is of Old Great Square, not Market Square.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FROM LEFT: Jan-Erik Andersson's ''Life on a Leaf'' house
a work by Jiri Geller at the Waino Aaltonen Museum of Art
the city is on the Aura River (Turku Cathedral is in the background).
The medieval Turku Castle is the site of art and historic exhibitions. (TR8)
FROM LEFT: A Market Square street market, moved indoors because of rain
Turku Cathedral is on the spot where Finns were introduced to Christianity
Market Square.
 An artsy crowd gathers at the Bookcafe for a concert of acoustic guitar. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ED ALCOCK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (TR9) MAP (TR8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCULPTURE (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); FESTIVALS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (76%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); MUSIC (67%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (74%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) FINLAND (94%); EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); NORTHERN EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (73%); ESTONIA (54%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2010



268 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1197 words

PERSON: Philippa Foot 

HEADLINE: Philippa Foot, Renowned Philosopher, Dies at 90

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GRIMES

 BODY:
Philippa Foot, a philosopher who argued that moral judgments have a rational basis, and who introduced the renowned ethical thought experiment known as the Trolley Problem, died at her home in Oxford, England, on Oct. 3, her 90th birthday.
Her death was announced on the Web site of Somerville College, Oxford, where she earned her academic degrees and taught for many years.
In her early work, notably in the essays ''Moral Beliefs'' and ''Moral Arguments,'' published in the late 1950s, Ms. Foot took issue with philosophers like R. M. Hare and Charles L. Stevenson, who maintained that moral statements were ultimately expressions of attitude or emotion, because they could not be judged true or false in the same way factual statements could be.
Ms. Foot countered this ''private-enterprise theory,'' as she called it, by arguing the interconnectedness of facts and moral interpretations. Further, she insisted that virtues like courage, wisdom and temperance are indispensable to human life and the foundation stones of morality. Her writing on the subject helped establish virtue ethics as a leading approach to the study of moral problems. 
''She's going to be remembered not for a particular view or position, but for changing the way people think about topics,'' said Lawrence Solum, who teaches the philosophy of law at the University of Illinois and studied under Ms. Foot. ''She made the moves that made people see things in a fundamentally new way. Very few people do that in philosophy.''
It was the Trolley Problem, however, that captured the imagination of scholars outside her discipline. In 1967, in the essay ''The Problem of Abortion and the Doctrine of the Double Effect,'' she discussed, using a series of provocative examples, the moral distinctions between intended and unintended consequences, between doing and allowing, and between positive and negative duties -- the duty not to inflict harm weighed against the duty to render aid.
The most arresting of her examples, offered in just a few sentences, was the ethical dilemma faced by the driver of a runaway trolley hurtling toward five track workers. By diverting the trolley to a spur where just one worker is on the track, the driver can save five lives.
Clearly, the driver should divert the trolley and kill one worker rather than five.
But what about a surgeon who could also save five lives -- by killing a patient and distributing the patient's organs to five other patients who would otherwise die? The math is the same, but here, instead of having to choose between two negative duties -- the imperative not to inflict harm -- as the driver does, the doctor weighs a negative duty against the positive duty of rendering aid.
By means of such problems, Ms. Foot hoped to clarify thinking about the moral issues surrounding abortion in particular, but she applied a similar approach to matters like euthanasia.
The philosopher Judith Jarvis Thomson added two complications to the Trolley Problem that are now inseparable from it.
Imagine, she wrote, a bystander who sees the trolley racing toward the track workers and can divert it by throwing a switch along the tracks. Unlike the driver, who must choose to kill one person or five, the bystander can refuse to intervene or, by throwing the switch, accept the unintended consequence of killing a human being, a choice endorsed by most people presented with the problem.
Or suppose, she suggested, that the bystander observes the impending trolley disaster from a footbridge over the tracks and realizes that by throwing a heavy weight in front of the trolley he can stop it.
As it happens, the only available weight is a fat man standing next to him. Most respondents presented with the problem saw a moral distinction between throwing the switch and throwing the man on the tracks, even though the end result, in lives saved, was identical.
The paradoxes suggested by the Trolley Problem and its variants have engaged not only moral philosophers but neuroscientists, economists and evolutionary psychologists. It also inspired a subdiscipline jokingly known as trolleyology, whose swelling body of commentary ''makes the Talmud look like CliffsNotes,'' the philosopher Kwame Anthony Appiah wrote in his book ''Experiments in Ethics'' (2008).
Philippa Judith Bosanquet was born on Oct. 3, 1920, in Owston Ferry, Lincolnshire, and grew up in Kirkleatham, in North Yorkshire. Her mother, Esther, was a daughter of President Grover Cleveland. Her father, William, was a captain in the Coldstream Guards when he married her mother and later took over the running of a large Yorkshire steel works.
Ms. Foot studied philosophy, politics and economics at Somerville College, where she earned a bachelor's degree in 1942. During World War II, she worked as a researcher at the Royal Institute of International Affairs, sharing a London flat with the future novelist Iris Murdoch.
In 1945 she married the historian M. R. D. Foot, after Murdoch left him for the economist Thomas Balogh. The marriage ended in divorce. She is survived by a sister, Marion Daniel of London.
Ms. Foot began lecturing on philosophy at Somerville in 1947, a year after receiving her master's degree, and rose to the positions of vice principal and senior research fellow before retiring in 1988. In 1974 she became a professor of philosophy at the University of California, Los Angeles, from which she retired in 1991.
In the 1970s Ms. Foot revisited some of her assertions about the objective nature of morality, allowing a measure of subjectivism to creep into her discussions of topics like abortion and euthanasia. The influence of Wittgenstein, and his linguistic spin on philosophical questions, became increasingly important in her writing, which dealt scrupulously with the various senses, and pitfalls, of terms like ''should,'' ''would'' and ''good.''
In ''Natural Goodness'' (2001), she offered a new theory of practical reason, arguing that morals are rooted in objective human needs that can be compared to the physical needs of plants and animals and described using the same words.
In a 2001 interview with Philosophy Today, she addressed a colleague's comment that, in her book, she seemed to regard vice as a natural defect.
''That's exactly what I believe, and I want to say that we describe defects in human beings in the same way as we do defects in plants and animals,'' she said. ''I once began a lecture by saying that in moral philosophy, it's very important to begin by talking about plants.''
Her most important essays were collected in ''Virtues and Vices and Other Essays in Moral Philosophy'' (1978) and ''Moral Dilemmas: And Other Topics in Moral Philosophy'' (2002).
Despite her influence, Ms. Foot remained disarmingly modest. ''I'm not clever at all,'' she told The Philosophers' Magazine in 2003. ''I have a certain insight into philosophy, I think. But I'm not clever, I don't find complicated arguments easy to follow.''

CORRECTION-DATE: October 12, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An obituary on Sunday about the philosopher Philippa Foot misstated the given name of her mother. It was Esther, not Edith.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Philippa Foot, the writer of an ethical thought experiment known as the Trolley Problem. (PHOTOGRAPH BY UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, LOS ANGELES) DRAWING (DRAWING BY FRANK O'CONNELL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); PHILOSOPHY (90%); ETHICS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (61%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

CATEGORY: Colleges and Universities

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2010



269 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 822 words

HEADLINE: What's On Sunday

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
9 P.M. (13, 49) WALLANDER, SERIES II: THE MAN WHO SMILEDKenneth Branagh, left, continues his role as Inspector Kurt Wallander, Henning Mankell's scruffy Swedish sleuth, in this second of three new ''Masterpiece Mystery!'' productions. This episode finds Wallander reeling from having shot a man during his last case and on the verge of resigning from the force. But then his old friend Sten Torstensson (David Sibley) pleads with him to investigate the death of his father, who has just died in a suspicious car crash. Wallander refuses -- until Sten is found hanged. All signs point to murder after both father and son are revealed to have had the same unusual injury. Soon Wallander is back on the job and deep into a conspiracy involving postcards with death threats, a controversial philanthropist working in Africa and a former cop turned chief informant with some demons of his own.
10 A.M. (Fox) FOX NEWS SUNDAY As Election Day approaches, Bret Baier tries to find out where things stand in the fight for the House. The guests include Representative Eric Cantor, Republican of Virginia; Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz, Democrat of Florida; and Karl Rove, former senior adviser to President George W. Bush. 
10 A.M. (ABC) THIS WEEK WITH CHRISTIANE AMANPOUR Ms. Amanpour heads to Connecticut to interview the Senate candidates Linda McMahon, former chief executive of World Wrestling Entertainment and a Republican, and Richard Blumenthal, the state attorney general and a Democrat. Ms. Amanpour also sits down with the former Pakistani president, Pervez Musharraf, to discuss the deteriorating relationship between his country and the United States.
10:30 A.M. (CBS) FACE THE NATION The topic: Can President Obama energize Democrats? And how will Republicans respond? Bob Schieffer interviews David Axelrod, the senior White House adviser, and Ed Gillespie, chairman of the Republican State Leadership Committee.
10:30 A.M. (NBC) MEET THE PRESS ''Senate Debate Series 2010'' begins, as the candidates for President Obama's old Senate seat in Illinois -- the state treasurer, Alexi Giannoulias, a Democrat, and Representative Mark Kirk, a Republican -- discuss the issues.
11 A.M. (TV One) WASHINGTON WATCH WITH ROLAND MARTIN Cecilia Rouse, a member of the Council of Economic Advisers, will speak about unemployment and job creation. Desiree Rogers, chief executive of the Johnson Publishing Company, will talk about her plans to keep Ebony magazine relevant as it celebrates its 65th birthday.
7 P.M. (CBS) 60 MINUTESEminem talks with Anderson Cooper about his struggles with addiction and a curse-word-free household, and gives a lesson in the art of rhyming.
8 P.M. (ABC) EXTREME MAKEOVER: HOME EDITION Time to put away the hanky. In this special ''no-tears episode,'' funny guys including Cedric the Entertainer, Tommy Davidson, Ralphie May and Paul Rodriguez, as well as the Sports Illustrated cover girl Brooklyn Decker, help renovate the home of Eric and Elaine Johnson and their five daughters, who hear the good news while attending a comedy club in Houston. Mr. and Mrs. Johnson, who became licensed counselors in 2006, founded Optimum Lifestyle, a nonprofit counseling service that helps to strengthen marriages among black Americans and to encourage fathers to play a larger role in their children's lives.
8 P.M. (National Geographic) INTO THE LOST CRYSTAL CAVES This visually stunning special ventures 1,000 feet down into the Naica Mine near Chihuahua, Mexico, where chambers hold crystals as large as 4 feet in diameter and 50 feet long -- and where scorching temperatures can kill a human in just 15 minutes.
8 P.M. (Fox) THE SIMPSONS Lisa tries to pad her resume with extracurricular activities by coaching Bart's Little League team. Mike Scioscia, the manager of the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim, and Bill James, the baseball statistician, have voice cameos.
9 P.M. (Hallmark) TRICKING & TREATING WITH MARTHA STEWART Ms. Stewart offers tips for turning Halloween into a spooky spectacular through home decor, unusual costumes and sinful recipes. She gets a little help from the actor Brendan Fraser, who allows Ms. Stewart to ''mummify'' him like a creature out of one of his movies.
9 P.M. (HBO) BOARDWALK EMPIRE Jimmy (Michael Pitt) strengthens new relationships in Chicago; Nucky (Steve Buscemi) hosts a party for a senator; Chalky (Michael Kenneth Williams) fingers a lynching suspect; and friction arises between Margaret (Kelly Macdonald) and Lucy (Paz de la Huerta).
10 P.M. (AMC) MAD MEN Don (Jon Hamm) runs into an old friend while trying to avert a crisis.
10 P.M. (ABC) BROTHERS & SISTERS Kitty (Calista Flockhart) meets a hunky handyman (Jeremy Davidson) while trying to reinvent herself in Ojai, Calif. Meanwhile the rest of the Walkers plan a birthday surprise for Sarah (Rachel Griffiths), who neglected to let them know that she has been lying to Luc (Gilles Marini) about her age. KATHRYN SHATTUCK

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); INTERVIEWS (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (87%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (84%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); MURDER (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (75%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (74%); JOB CREATION (74%); ELECTIONS (72%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); POLITICAL DEBATES (67%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (60%); PUBLISHING (60%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (60%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%); JOHNSON PUBLISHING CO INC (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (62%)

PERSON: CHRISTIANE AMANPOUR (69%); DAVID AXELROD (55%); ERIC CANTOR (51%); BARACK OBAMA (51%); KARL ROVE (51%); DEBBIE WASSERMAN SCHULTZ (51%); GEORGE W BUSH (51%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (50%); RICHARD BLUMENTHAL (50%); MARK STEVEN KIRK (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); PAKISTAN (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2010



270 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1222 words

HEADLINE: Control of the House in the Balance

 BODY:
Republicans are within striking distance of winning the House and demoting Speaker Nancy Pelosi. These races are among those that will decide her future.
Obama's Class of '08 These freshman Democrats, elected on the president's coattails in 2008, also sided with the administration on the stimulus and health care bills, which Republicans are now using against them.
Colo.
Betsy Markey Incumbent 
Cory Gardner State representative
Mr. Gardner is considered the front-runner in this divided district of college and farming towns, in spite of $500,000 in independent expenditures supporting his opponent.
Fla. 24
Suzanne M. Kosmas Incumbent
Sandra Adams State representative
Ms. Kosmas has tried to tack rightward by supporting extension of the Bush tax cuts, but conservative groups and the national Republican Party are spending heavily to unseat her.
Ill. 14
Bill Foster Incumbent
Randy Hultgren State senator
Buoyed by President Obama's endorsement, Mr. Foster won in 2008, but Republicans have singled out this district with ads attacking him for supporting the stimulus and health care bills.
Mich. 7
Mark Schauer Incumbent
Tim Walberg Former U.S. rep.
Independent groups have spent more than a million dollars on each side in this district, historically Republican but pro-Obama in 2008.
Nev. 3
Dina Titus Incumbent
Joe Heck Physician
The two candidates have a tight race in a district plagued by record foreclosure and jobless rates. Mr. Heck has called Ms. Titus a henchman for Ms. Pelosi.
Ohio 15
Mary Jo Kilroy Incumbent
Steve Stivers Former state senator
In a rematch from 2008, the two candidates are neck and neck in raising money, butMr. Stivers, who has tried to appeal to Tea Party activists, may have more cash on hand.
Ohio 16
John Boccieri Incumbent
Jim Renacci Entrepreneur A member of the gang of seven Democrats who switched votes to ensure passage of the health care bill, Mr. Boccieri is hard pressed by a repeal advocate, Mr. Renacci.
Freshmen Who Didn't Join
These newly elected Democrats didn't follow the president's lead, and may be in trouble anyway.
Idaho 1
Walt Minnick Incumbent
Raul Labrador State representative Mr. Minnick's opponent is considered very conservative, even in this conservative district, but with Chamber of Commerce and Tea Party endorsements, he has a chance to survive.
Md. 1
Frank Kratovil Jr. Incumbent
Andy Harris State senator
Mr. Kratovil is running behind a well-financed Mr. Harris, his opponent from 2008, in spite of being endorsed by the Republican who used to hold the seat.
Pa. 11
Paul E. Kanjorski Incumbent
Lou Barletta Hazleton mayor
Mr. Kanjorski, who has a rematch with Mr. Barletta in a district hit hard by the recession, is one of dozens of House Democrats who played down endorsements by President Obama.
Miss. 1
Travis W. Childers Incumbent
Alan Nunnelee State senator
Republicans are trying to recapture this seat, which they held for 14 years. Mr. Childers, a conservative Blue Dog Democrat, has won the endorsement of the Chamber of Commerce.
N.C. 8
Larry Kissel l Incumbent
Harold Johnson Retired sportscaster
The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee has spent more than $380,000on television ads to hold on to this traditionally conservative district.
Va. 2
Glenn Nye Incumbent
Scott Rigell Businessman
Though Mr. Nye, a political novice, won the district with the help of President Obama in 2008, he is running from the president's agenda as fast as any Democrat in the country.
Veteran Democrats Some powerful committee chairmen are among the Democrats facing stiff competition this year, several in districts that until recently looked safe.
Colo. 3
John Salazar Incumbent
Scott Tipton State representative
Americans for Job Security, a conservative group associated with Republican operatives, entered this race Sept. 30 with a half-million dollar purchase of ads to oppose Mr. Salazar.Veteran Democrats Some powerful committee chairmen are among the Democrats facing stiff competition this year, several in districts that until recently looked safe.
N.H. 1
Carol Shea-Porter Incumbent
Frank Guinta Former state legislator
Ms. Shea-Porter survived a stiff challenge in 2008. She calls Mr. Guinta, a former Manchester mayor, ''anti-government,'' while he paints her as a Nancy Pelosi minion.
S.C. 5
John M. Spratt Jr. Incumbent
Mick Mulvaney State senator
Mr. Spratt could drown in what he has called the ''crest of a long wave'' that his conservative opponent is riding in the home state of Senator Jim DeMint, a Tea Party favorite.
Wis. 8
Steven Kagen Incumbent
Reid Ribble Businessman
National Democrats cut ad buys here, but whether they were confident or giving up was much debated. Mr. Kagen has money, but anonymous donors bolster his opponent.
Fla. 2
Allen Boyd Incumbent
Steve Southerland Funeral home director
In a normal year, Mr. Boyd, a Blue Dog, would not be threatened. But he cast a key vote for health care, and Republican groups have hit the district with $650,000 worth of attack ads.
Ga. 8
Jim Marshall Incumbent
Austin Scott State representative
The American Future Fund, which played a key role in electing Senator Scott Brown in Massachusetts, has invested more than $350,000 in ads against Mr. Marshall.
N.Y. 24
Michael Arcuri Incumbent
Richard Hanna Businessman
In a rematch of 2008, Mr. Arcuri suffered union condemnation for his vote against the healthcare bill, but still faces charges from Mr. Hanna that he is a stooge of Ms. Pelosi.
Ohio 18
Zack Space Incumbent
Bob Gibbs Businessman
Some unions have abandoned Mr. Space as punishment for opposing the health care bill, but others, worried about a House Republican takeover, have begun attacking Mr. Gibbs.
Tex. 17
Chet Edwards Incumbent
Bill Flores Businessman
Republican groups, afraid to go overly negative against the likable Mr. Edwards, are nonetheless spending half a million dollars to defeat the 10-term incumbent.
S.D. Stephanie Herseth Sandlin Incumbent
Kristi Noem State representative
Gun-toting, pheasant-dressing Ms. Noem faces farm-raised incumbent Ms. Herseth Sandlin in a battle with mama-grizzly undertones. Ms. Noem's 20 speeding tickets are an issue.
Mo. 4
Ike Skelton Incumbent
Vicky Hartzler Former state legislator
The 17-term Democrat faces a Sarah Palin endorsee who fronted Missouri's 2004 anti-gay-marriage initiative in a district that voted for John McCain over President Obama.
Republicans in the Cross Hairs There aren't many, but a few Republican seats seem to be in play.
Calif. 3
Ami Bera Physician
Dan Lungren Incumbent
Mr. Bera has plenty of money and support from Indian-Americans, as well as national Democrats, in his attempt to thwart the trend and unseat Mr. Lungren.
Del. 1
John Carney Former lt. gov.
Glen Urquhart Real estate investor
In this race, a Democrat appears actually to be the favorite to take a Republican seat. Polls give Mr. Carney a two-digit lead against the Tea Party-backed Mr. Urquhart.
Ill. 10
Dan Seals Business consultant
Robert Dold Businessman Mr. Seals is making a third attempt to win this seat, left open by the departure of Republican Mark Steven Kirk, who is running for President Obama's former Senate seat.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 17, 2010

 CORRECTION:
A chart last Sunday about key races for the United States House of Representatives erroneously included a Democratic congressman from Pennsylvania among a group of freshmen. The congressman, Paul E. Kanjorski, is serving his 13th term.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Obama's Class of '08: These freshman Democrats, elected on the president's coattails in 2008, also sided with the administration on the stimulus and health care bills, which Republicans are now using against them.
Freshmen Who Didn't Join: These newly elected Democrats didn't follow the president's lead, and may be in trouble anyway.
Veteran Democrats: Some powerful committee chairmen are among the Democrats facing stiff competition this year, several in districts that until recently looked safe.
Republicans in the Cross Hairs: There aren't many, but a few Republican seats seem to be in play. (Sources: Campaign Media Analysis Group
Sunlight Foundation
Dave Leip's Atlas of U.S. Presidential Elections
Federal Election Commission
 Center for Responsive Politics) (CHARTS BY FORD FESSENDEN AND HAEYOUN PARK/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (79%); MAYORS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); FUNDRAISING (75%); RECESSION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (59%); FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); DINA TITUS (79%); NANCY PELOSI (79%); CORY GARDNER (74%); SUZANNE KOSMAS (74%); BILL FOSTER (59%); TIM WALBERG (59%); JIM RENACCI (59%); TRAVIS CHILDERS (59%); RAUL LABRADOR (59%); ANDY HARRIS (59%); LOU BARLETTA (59%); RANDY HULTGREN (59%); MARK SCHAUER (59%); STEVE STIVERS (59%); FRANK KRATOVIL (59%); JOE HECK (59%); BETSY MARKEY (59%); PAUL E KANJORSKI (59%); WALT MINNICK (59%); JOHN BOCCIERI (59%); ALAN NUNNELEE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2010



271 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 223 words

HEADLINE: LAUGH LINES

 BODY:
JAY LENO
The economy is so bad Meg Whitman had to clean her own house.
President Obama announced that his new chief of staff would be his longtime aide, a man named Peter Rouse. Obama said one of the most popular phrases around the White House is, ''Let Pete fix it.'' That's the most popular phrase. Second most popular phrase at the White House? ''Tell Biden I'm not here.'' 
Bob Woodward told CNN yesterday an Obama/Hillary ticket is on the table for 2012. Though some insiders say Obama doesn't think he needs Hillary on the ticket. At this point, I don't think Hillary feels she needs Obama on the ticket.
DAVID LETTERMAN
The United States Senate has voted to limit the volume of television commercials. Who says Congress doesn't get anything done? I mean, come on!
Do you remember the Times Square bomber? Life in prison for that guy, ladies and gentlemen. The biggest bomb on Broadway since Kirstie Alley in ''Peter Pan.''
JIMMY FALLON
The White House has issued an alert for American tourists traveling in Europe, over fears of a terror attack. But the joke's on you, terrorists. We can't afford to go to Europe.
Everyone is talking about Christine O'Donnell's Senate campaign. This week, she released a campaign where she says, ''I'm not a witch.'' That's pretty good. Not as effective as her opponent's slogan, ''I'm not Christine O'Donnell.''

GRAPHIC: CARTOONS: Cam Cardow: Ottawa Citizen, Cagle Cartoons
Mike Luckovich: Atlanta Journal-Constitution, Creators Syndicate
Rob Rogers: Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, United Feature Syndicate
 David Horsey: Seattle Post-Intelligencer, Hearst Newspapers 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (74%); TERRORISM (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); BOMBINGS (72%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (69%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (69%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); DAVID LETTERMAN (74%); JAY LENO (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2010



272 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 830 words

HEADLINE: Grading School Choice

BYLINE: By ROSS DOUTHAT

 BODY:
In this fall's must-see documentary, ''Waiting for 'Superman,' '' Davis Guggenheim offers a critique of America's public school bureaucracy that's manipulative, simplistic and more than a little bit utopian.
Not that there's anything wrong with that. Guggenheim's cause, the plight of children trapped in failing schools with lousy, union-protected teachers, is important enough to make his overzealousness forgivable. And his prescription -- more accountability for teachers and bureaucrats, and more choices for parents and kids -- deserves all the support his film promises to win for it. 
But if propaganda has its virtues, it also has its limits. Guggenheim's movie, which follows five families through the brutal charter school lotteries that determine whether their kids will escape from public ''dropout factories,'' stirs an entirely justified outrage at the system's unfairnesses and cruelties. This outrage needs to be supplemented, though, with a dose of realism about what education reformers can reasonably hope to accomplish, and what real choice and competition would ultimately involve.
With that in mind, I have a modest proposal: Copies of Frederick Hess's recent National Affairs essay, ''Does School Choice 'Work'?'' should be handed out at every ''Waiting for 'Superman' '' showing, as a sober-minded complement to Guggenheim's cinematic call to arms.
An education scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, Hess supports just about every imaginable path to increasing competition in education: charter schools, merit pay for teachers, vouchers, even for-profit academies.
But he also recognizes that partisans of school choice tend to wildly overpromise -- implying that their favored policies could swiftly Lake Wobegonize America, and make every school and student above average. (This is a trap, alas, that ''Waiting for 'Superman''' falls into as well.)
Overpromising leads inevitably to disappointment. When it comes to raising test scores, the grail of most reformers, school choice's record is still ambiguous. For every charter school success story like the Harlem Children's Zone and the KIPP network -- both touted in Guggenheim's documentary -- there's a charter school where scores are worse than the public school status quo. The same is true for vouchers and merit pay: the jury is still out on whether either policy consistently raises academic performance.
This doesn't mean that school choice doesn't work, Hess argues. It just means that the benefits are often more modest and incremental than many reformers want to think. They can be measured in money saved (both charter and private schools usually spend much less per pupil than their public competitors), in improved graduation rates, and in higher parental and student satisfaction. But they don't always show up in test scores.
This insight leads to Hess's second argument -- that if reformers want to see more than modest academic improvements, they need to set more ambitious goals. The theory of school choice is the theory of the free market: monopoly breeds mediocrity, and more competition should make all the competitors improve. But in practice, even the more ambitious school choice experiments have protected the public school system from the rigors of real competition.
When poor-performing public schools lose students to charters or private-school competitors, Hess points out, there are rarely any consequences. In Milwaukee, for instance, where a high-profile voucher program has been in place since 1990, public school enrollment has dropped as families have taken vouchers and fled the public system. But spending on public schools has gone steadily upward, effectively rewarding bureaucrats for their failure to keep parents and students happy. As Hess writes, ''This is choice without consequences -- competition as soft political slogan rather than hard economic reality.''
A real marketplace in education, he suggests, probably wouldn't fund schools directly at all. It would only fund students, tying a school's budget to the number of children seeking to enroll. If there are 150 applicants for a charter school, they should all bring their funding with them -- and take it away from the failing schools they're trying to escape.
This is a radical idea, guaranteed to meet intense resistance from just about every educational interest group. But Hess makes a compelling case that it needs to be the school choice movement's long-term goal, if reformers hope to do more than just tinker around the edges of the system.
In the shorter term, meanwhile, he suggests that school choice advocates need to make a case for greater competition that doesn't depend on test scores alone. Maybe charter schools, merit pay and vouchers won't instantly turn every American child into a test-acing dynamo. But if they ''only'' create a more cost-effective system that makes parents and students happier with their schools -- well, that would be no small feat, and well worth fighting for.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); SCHOOL CHOICE (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (89%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (89%); MERIT PAY (89%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); EDUCATION REFORM (77%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (77%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (76%); GRADUATION RATES (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: Waiting for Superman (Movie)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2010



273 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 448 words

HEADLINE: The Shore Is Alive With the Sound of Turbines

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''For Those Living Nearby, That Miserable Hum of Clean Energy'' (front page, Oct. 6):
My husband and I spent a week on the island of Vinalhaven in Maine in August, within sight and sound of the three giant wind turbines. Not only are they visually disturbing in the otherwise pristine landscape, but the ebb and flow of sound is also more reminiscent of a jet plane than the woods of Maine. 
After we spent two days driving, and an hour and a half on the ferry, to get away from the hustle and bustle of New York, it was quite ironic to find our rental house located across from the intermittently noisy power plant.
I can only imagine the effect of the proposed Long Island-New York City offshore wind project. Although the giant turbines are to be 13 to 15 miles off the shore of Long Island, I would guess that any endangered fish swimming above the proposed location on the Atlantic's outer continental shelf might just call it quits altogether when they hear the roar of the turbines.
Ennid Berger Glen Cove, N.Y., Oct. 6, 2010
To the Editor:
The number of people complaining about noise from wind turbines is ''small but growing'' because the number of people who live near industrial-scale wind turbines is small but growing. In addition, leases and neighbor easements often include ''gag orders'' against publicizing complaints.
The Acoustic Ecology Institute notes as well that local news coverage of the issue may be wanting and that social and economic constraints can keep people from going public.
And a growing number of doctors and other scientists are taking the health effects seriously, even for what you call the ''most extreme claims.''
The solution is simple: adequate distance from homes. The affected Vinalhaven residents live within one mile of the turbines. Most independent researchers suggest two kilometers, or 1.24 miles, as a minimum.
Eric Rosenbloom President, National Wind Watch Hartland, Vt., Oct. 6, 2010
To the Editor:
Maine residents bothered by the noise of wind turbines should travel to West Virginia, meet the families of the 29 coal miners killed last April, and explain to them what a nuisance it is to live next to a wind farm.
Then they should go to the gulf coast and tell the fishermen and hospitality and oil rig workers, who have experienced the effects of the BP spill, how their lives are being damaged by renewable energy generators.
It is a safe bet that most families supported by energy mining or drilling would love to live on an island in Maine, even next to a wind farm.
Cleaning up our electric fuel mix for the 21st century is not sacrifice-free.
Gordon Boyd Saratoga Springs, N.Y., Oct. 6, 2010
The writer is an energy consultant.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY LULU WOLF) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIND POWER PLANTS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WIND ENERGY (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); POWER PLANTS (89%); ISLANDS & REEFS (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (78%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (76%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (74%); NOISE POLLUTION (74%); WRITERS (73%); COASTAL AREAS (73%); EASEMENTS & RIGHTS OF WAY (71%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (70%); FISHES (67%); MINES & MINING (64%); MINE WORKERS (64%); OIL SPILLS (63%); COAL MINING (60%); MINING ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) MAINE, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2010



274 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1207 words

HEADLINE: Sluggish Economy Curtails Prospects for Building Nuclear Reactors

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Just a few years ago, the economic prognosis for new nuclear reactors looked bright. The prospect of growing electricity demand, probable caps on carbon-dioxide emissions and government loan guarantees prompted companies to tell the Nuclear Regulatory Commission that they wanted to build 28 new reactors.
The economic slump, which has driven down demand and the price of competing energy sources, and the failure of Congress to pass climate legislation has changed all that, at least for now.
Constellation Energy's announcement on Saturday that it had reached an impasse with the federal government over the fee for a loan guarantee on a new reactor in Maryland is a sign of how much the landscape has been transformed. 
Essentially, the Energy Department argued that Constellation's project is so risky that the company must pay a high fee or provide other assurances of repayment if it wants the taxpayers to guarantee its construction loans. Constellation said the government's demand was ''unreasonably burdensome.''
The government is hardly the only one to question the economics of nuclear power right now. The would-be builders of seven reactors around the country have deferred their projects in the last few months.
J. Scott Peterson, a spokesman for the Nuclear Energy Institute, the industry's trade group, said the ''pause'' in nuclear building plans mirrors delays in other industrial projects. ''It's principally because of the economic situation,'' he said.
One major factor driving the cautious stance of both the industry and the government is the fall in electricity demand, which peaked in 2007. In 2009, demand dropped by more than 4 percent from 2007. So far, it seems that demand in 2010 will be higher than last year, but not as high as 2007. These are big changes for an industry that is accustomed to growth on the order of 1 to 3 percent a year. With slack demand, there is less urgency to build new plants.
The plunge in the price of natural gas has also made nuclear power far less competitive. The year the recession began, 2008, the standard unit of natural gas, one million British thermal units, sold for an average of $7.96 at the well head. Last year the same amount of gas cost just $3.71, according to preliminary Energy Department figures, and for the first six months of this year, it cost $4.43.
A return to strong economic growth would push up the demand for electricity and for natural gas, but even then, natural gas prices may remain low because a technology called hydraulic fracturing has vastly increased the estimate of recoverable reserves.
Also weighing on the nuclear industry is the unwillingness of Congress to pass climate change legislation that would put a price of some sort on carbon-dioxide emissions. Since nuclear power produces no carbon emissions, it would gain a competitive edge against coal and natural gas if a bill were passed. But while such legislation once seemed likely, sharp divisions in Congress and concerns about the tottering economy have stalled its prospects.
Putting all that together, the Energy Department evaluated Constellation's proposal the way a bank would look at a prospective credit card customer or home buyer and set the fee according to the borrower's creditworthiness. Under a program created by Congress, Constellation was seeking a guarantee for 80 percent of the cost of the project. The government settled on a fee of $880 million, or 11.6 percent of the $7.6 billion loan, according to Constellation. In a letter to the Energy Department, the company called the figure ''shockingly high'' and said it would doom the project.
Other companies have looked at the economics of building new nuclear reactors and decided to wait. In September, Exelon, the largest nuclear operator in the United States, stepped back from a plan to build a twin-unit reactor plant in Texas and decided to simply seek approval for the site, which would save it some time if it decided later to build.
Exelon said it needs natural gas prices to reach about $8 per million B.T.U. -- almost double today's price -- and a carbon fee of $25 a ton to make the project worthwhile economically. ''We don't have the right stimulus right now,'' said Christopher M. Crane, president and chief operating officer, in a recent interview.
Two utilities in Florida, Progress Energy and FPL, each want to build twin-unit reactors but have slowed their projects down. A Missouri utility has backed away from a plan to build a carbon copy of the Constellation Maryland reactor.
Nuclear plant operators like Exelon and Constellation face particular challenges because after deregulation in their states, they must compete against other energy suppliers to sell electricity to the companies that actually distribute energy to customers.
Two nuclear projects that have gone forward, in Georgia and South Carolina, are in states where the utilities building them also distribute the electricity and operate under traditional regulatory rules that virtually guarantee them a financial return: Whatever the companies spend to generate power, the customers will pay for, unless regulators decide the expenses were not ''prudent.'' That regulatory compact is so strong that the South Carolina project, on the site of the existing V. C. Summer reactor, has begun work without a loan guarantee.
In Constellation's case, the Energy Department proposed that Constellation reduce the risk of financial failure by signing a contract with its regulated subsidiary, Baltimore Gas & Electric, to buy 75 percent of the new reactor's output at a price that would allow Constellation to repay the loan. That idea would require approval of state regulators, but state officials have generally favored construction of the reactor.
Such a contract would limit the builders' upside possibilities, however, and Constellation has not pursued the idea.
A spokeswoman for the Energy Department, Stephanie Mueller, said the parties were still working on a compromise. ''We urge Constellation and its partner to examine the latest terms and continue working on this project important to bringing about the clean-energy economy of the future and creating many needed jobs,'' she said.
Some nuclear advocates say that pure economics should not be an overriding concern.
Constellation Energy argues that its reactor is less risky than the government's assessment indicates. The Maryland reactor would be the sixth or seventh instance of a new design, with Finland, France and China working out the kinks first, according to James L. Connaughton, executive vice president of Constellation Energy.
He said that Constellation and its partner, Electricite de France, are experienced at this kind of job, and thus the fee from the government should be 1 or 2 percent of the guarantee. The reactor's construction will provide thousands of well-paying jobs and clean power for decades, he said, if only the government would make a more realistic assessment of risk.
But Michael Mariotte, executive director of the antinuclear group Nuclear Information and Resource Service, predicted that Constellation and the nuclear industry will experience no renaissance for the most simple of reasons: ''nuclear reactors make no economic sense.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Constellation's two existing nuclear plants in Maryland. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CONSTELLATION ENERGY GROUP) (B1)
 The Vogtle nuclear plant in Georgia, a state with traditional regulatory rules that virtually guarantee a return on investment. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIK S. LESSER/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR ENERGY (91%); EMISSIONS (90%); ENERGY DEMAND (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (90%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); CLIMATE CHANGE (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (72%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (70%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (61%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (61%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2010



275 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTS, BRIEFLY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 137 words

HEADLINE: Shubert Grants Grow Despite Recession

BYLINE: Compiled by RACHEL LEE HARRIS

 BODY:
The Shubert Foundation's grants to arts organizations have increased to $18.2 million this year, up from $17.6 million in 2009, according to a report being released by the foundation this week. Grants ranging from $5,000 to $275,000 have been given to around 450 companies nationally by the nonprofit organization. Theater companies in 42 states received most of the money, around $13 million, while dance companies received $2.5 million. The remainder was distributed to other performing arts groups, professional theater training programs and charitable agencies. In New York, Lincoln Center Theater was one of the top beneficiaries, receiving $275,000, along with American Ballet Theater ($200,000) and Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater ($155,000). Smaller companies like Elevator Repair Service were awarded around $5,000. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); DANCE (90%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (88%); BALLET (88%); RECESSION (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); CHARITIES (88%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (88%); THEATER COMPANIES (70%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2010



276 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: Hey, Small Spender

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Here's the narrative you hear everywhere: President Obama has presided over a huge expansion of government, but unemployment has remained high. And this proves that government spending can't create jobs.
Here's what you need to know: The whole story is a myth. There never was a big expansion of government spending. In fact, that has been the key problem with economic policy in the Obama years: we never had the kind of fiscal expansion that might have created the millions of jobs we need.
Ask yourself: What major new federal programs have started up since Mr. Obama took office? Health care reform, for the most part, hasn't kicked in yet, so that can't be it. So are there giant infrastructure projects under way? No. Are there huge new benefits for low-income workers or the poor? No. Where's all that spending we keep hearing about? It never happened. 
To be fair, spending on safety-net programs, mainly unemployment insurance and Medicaid, has risen -- because, in case you haven't noticed, there has been a surge in the number of Americans without jobs and badly in need of help. And there were also substantial outlays to rescue troubled financial institutions, although it appears that the government will get most of its money back. But when people denounce big government, they usually have in mind the creation of big bureaucracies and major new programs. And that just hasn't taken place.
Consider, in particular, one fact that might surprise you: The total number of government workers in America has been falling, not rising, under Mr. Obama. A small increase in federal employment was swamped by sharp declines at the state and local level -- most notably, by layoffs of schoolteachers. Total government payrolls have fallen by more than 350,000 since January 2009.
Now, direct employment isn't a perfect measure of the government's size, since the government also employs workers indirectly when it buys goods and services from the private sector. And government purchases of goods and services have gone up. But adjusted for inflation, they rose only 3 percent over the last two years -- a pace slower than that of the previous two years, and slower than the economy's normal rate of growth.
So as I said, the big government expansion everyone talks about never happened. This fact, however, raises two questions. First, we know that Congress enacted a stimulus bill in early 2009; why didn't that translate into a big rise in government spending? Second, if the expansion never happened, why does everyone think it did?
Part of the answer to the first question is that the stimulus wasn't actually all that big compared with the size of the economy. Furthermore, it wasn't mainly focused on increasing government spending. Of the roughly $600 billion cost of the Recovery Act in 2009 and 2010, more than 40 percent came from tax cuts, while another large chunk consisted of aid to state and local governments. Only the remainder involved direct federal spending.
And federal aid to state and local governments wasn't enough to make up for plunging tax receipts in the face of the economic slump. So states and cities, which can't run large deficits, were forced into drastic spending cuts, more than offsetting the modest increase at the federal level.
The answer to the second question -- why there's a widespread perception that government spending has surged, when it hasn't -- is that there has been a disinformation campaign from the right, based on the usual combination of fact-free assertions and cooked numbers. And this campaign has been effective in part because the Obama administration hasn't offered an effective reply.
Actually, the administration has had a messaging problem on economic policy ever since its first months in office, when it went for a stimulus plan that many of us warned from the beginning was inadequate given the size of the economy's troubles. You can argue that Mr. Obama got all he could -- that a larger plan wouldn't have made it through Congress (which is questionable), and that an inadequate stimulus was much better than none at all (which it was). But that's not an argument the administration ever made. Instead, it has insisted throughout that its original plan was just right, a position that has become increasingly awkward as the recovery stalls.
And a side consequence of this awkward positioning is that officials can't easily offer the obvious rebuttal to claims that big spending failed to fix the economy -- namely, that thanks to the inadequate scale of the Recovery Act, big spending never happened in the first place.
But if they won't say it, I will: if job-creating government spending has failed to bring down unemployment in the Obama era, it's not because it doesn't work; it's because it wasn't tried.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); MEDICAID (78%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); LAYOFFS (73%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (69%); INFRASTRUCTURE (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2010



277 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3800 words

HEADLINE: State Long Ignored Red Flags on Test Scores

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MEDINA; Robert Gebeloff and Elissa Gootman contributed reporting, and Jack Begg contributed research.

 BODY:
When New York State made its standardized English and math tests tougher to pass this year, causing proficiency rates to plummet, it said it was relying on a new analysis showing that the tests had become too easy and that score inflation was rampant.
But evidence had been mounting for some time that the state's tests, which have formed the basis of almost every school reform effort of the past decade, had serious flaws.
The fast rise and even faster fall of New York's passing rates resulted from the effect of policies, decisions and missed red flags that stretched back more than 10 years and were laid out in correspondence and in interviews with city and state education officials, administrators and testing experts.
The process involved direct warnings from experts that went unheeded by the state, and a city administration that trumpeted gains in student performance despite its own reservations about how reliably the test gauged future student success. 
It involved the state's decision to create short, predictable exams and to release them publicly soon after they were given, making coaching easy and depriving test creators of a key tool: the ability to insert in each test questions for future exams. Next year, for the first time, the tests will not be released publicly.
It involved a national push for numbers-based accountability, begun under President George W. Bush and reinforced by President Obama. And it involved a mayor's full embrace of testing as he sought to make his mark on the city, and then to get re-elected.
''They just kept upping the stakes with the scores, putting more pressure on the schools but not really looking at what it all means,'' said Pedro Noguera, an education professor at New York University who has worked with the city's Department of Education to help improve struggling schools.
New York has been a national model for how to carry out education reform, so its sudden decline in passing rates may be seen as a cautionary tale. The turnaround has also been a blow to Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and his chancellor, Joel I. Klein, who despite warnings that a laserlike focus on raising scores could make them less and less reliable, lashed almost every aspect of its school system to them. Schools were graded on how much their scores rose and threatened with being closed if they did not. The scores dictated which students were promoted or left back, and which teachers and principals would receive bonuses.
Even now, the city believes that the way it uses the tests is valid. The mayor and the chancellor have forcefully defended their students' performance, noting that even after the changes this year, student scores are still better than they were in 2002. They have argued that their students' progress is more important than the change in the passing rate, and that years of gains cannot be washed away because of a decision in Albany to require more correct answers from every student this year.
The test scores were even used for a new purpose this year: to help determine which teachers should receive tenure.
''This mayor uses data and metrics to determine whether policies are failing or succeeding,'' said Howard Wolfson, the deputy mayor for government affairs and communications. He also helped run Mr. Bloomberg's re-election campaign in 2009, using the city's historic rise in test scores to make the case for a third term. ''We believe that testing is a key factor for determining the success of schools and teachers.''
''Under any standard you look at,'' he added, ''we have improved the schools.''
But given all the flaws of the test, said Prof. Howard T. Everson of the City University of New York's Center for Advanced Study in Education, it is hard to tell what those rising scores really meant.
''Teachers began to know what was going to be on the tests,'' said Professor Everson, who was a member of a state testing advisory panel and who warned the state in 2008 that it might have a problem with score inflation. ''Then you have to wonder, and folks like me wonder, is that real learning or not?''
New Generation of Tests
The problems that plagued New York's standardized tests can be traced to the origin of the exams.
In 1996, New York set about creating tests for fourth and eighth graders as a way to measure whether schools were doing their jobs. A precursor to the widespread testing brought about by Mr. Bush's No Child Left Behind law, the tests replaced more basic exams that had been given in the same grades, which simply determined whether students needed remedial instruction. (The city had also given its own tests for many years.)
Teachers pushed back, saying they could gauge their students' performance better than any mass-produced tests could. ''There was a lot of resistance from throughout the education community to having the tests,'' said Alan Ray, who was the chief spokesman for the State Education Department in the 1990s and in 2000, and retired this year after overseeing data for the office.
But education officials in New York, and many other states, were coming to the conclusion that some measurement system, no matter how limited, was necessary.
The officials sought advice from dozens of educators across New York to figure out what the tests should encompass, Mr. Ray said. Teachers and principals asked that the standards be specific, to make it clear what they were expected to teach at each grade level, and superintendents pleaded to keep the tests relatively short so that students would not spend days filling in bubbles. The state obliged both requests.
The decision to keep the tests narrow and short -- the fifth-grade math test, for example, had 34 questions this year -- would have a lasting impact, said Daniel Koretz, a professor at Harvard's Graduate School of Education who specializes in assessment systems. The same types of questions would be trotted out every year, he said.
''In many cases you could not write an unpredictable question no matter how hard you tried,'' Professor Koretz said. He oversaw the study of New York's tests that led to the state's conclusion that they had become too easy to pass.
The state also continued making tests public after they were administered. Coupled with the questions' predictability, the public release of the tests, which started long before the nationwide accountability movement, provided teachers with ready-made practice exams.
''If people had known what an effective lever the tests would be of driving behavior, I think they would have designed the tests differently,'' said John King, who became deputy state education commissioner last year.
According to testing experts, publicly releasing the exams had another detrimental effect.
Test designers like to insert questions that do not count in the score but might be used in a future test. The designers gauge how students -- who are not told which questions will not count -- perform on these questions. This allows them to create tests with a mix of easy, moderate and difficult material that is constant -- or standardized -- from year to year, so that administrators can compare one year's performance with another's.
But in New York, ''field test'' questions cannot be included in tests because those exams are made public.
Even the solution proved problematic. Test writers had to administer a separate field test made up wholly of questions they wanted to use in the future. This test was given to random samples of students, and was not publicly released.
The trouble with this approach, experts said, is that the students taking these field tests, and their teachers, know that they are not the official exams. They may not try as hard to answer the questions correctly, and thus give an inaccurate measure of how hard the questions are.
''There's a lot of debate about what's valid in that kind of prediction,'' said Andrew Ho, a testing expert who also teaches at Harvard. ''It may be making assumptions that are not really correct to start with.''
The new state tests were rolled out in 1999. The first batch of results, free of test preparation and repeated questions, provided both a starting point and a troubling revelation: New York's public school students were being poorly educated. Just 38 percent of the state's eighth graders passed the math test and 48 percent passed in reading. In New York City, those numbers were 23 percent and 35 percent, respectively.
The reaction, Mr. Ray said, ''was electrifying.'' Some even questioned whether the standards had been set too high.
A Mayor Chases Results
The state tests' flaws would not become evident for years. But by 2001, the tests had a champion.
During his first campaign, Mr. Bloomberg said that education was his top priority. He pledged to take control of the city's public schools, then under the supervision of the Board of Education, which had been ridiculed for budget troubles and stagnant academic performance.
Projecting the image of a bottom-line-oriented, pragmatic businessman, Mr. Bloomberg latched on to test scores as a clear way of seeing just how well students were doing.
''If four years from now reading scores and math scores aren't significantly better,'' Mr. Bloomberg said in a radio interview in 2001, ''then I will look in the mirror and say that I have been a failure. I've never failed at anything yet, and I don't plan to fail at that.''
After Mr. Bloomberg persuaded the Legislature to give him control of the schools, he appointed Mr. Klein, a former Justice Department lawyer and media executive, as his chancellor. Mr. Klein was seen as a technocrat who was eager and able to produce tangible results, the kind that could be measured.
Scores in the city and state were on their way up. In 2004, for example, the proportion of fourth graders in the city meeting math standards increased to 68 percent, up 16 percentage points since 2001. Only 42 percent of eighth graders met that mark, but that was still a significant improvement from just a few years earlier. By 2009, that rate would jump nearly 30 points.
''What is encouraging is that for two or three years in a row now, the tests have gone in the same direction -- up,'' the mayor said on a radio show in October 2004. ''So there's reason to believe we're headed to the correct place.''
In 2003, Mr. Bloomberg ended the practice of ''social promotion'' in certain grades, requiring students performing at the lowest levels on the tests be held back unless they attended summer school and showed progress on a retest. That year, Mr. Klein released a list of 200 successful schools, the only places where teachers would not have to follow the citywide math and English curriculums. The list was primarily based on test scores.
More and more of the mayor's educational initiatives were linked to the scores. They were used to help decide which schools should be closed and replaced with new, smaller schools. The new A-through-F grading system for schools was based primarily on how their students improved on the tests. Teachers and principals earned bonuses of up to $25,000 if their schools' scores rose. Teachers' annual evaluations and tenure decisions are partially dependent on test results.
Each new policy was met with denunciations from the teachers' union or from education experts like Diane Ravitch. Ms. Ravitch, a supporter of standardized testing when she was an adviser to the Clinton and Bush administrations, became one of the biggest critics, arguing that schools were devoting too much time to the pursuit of high scores.
''If they are not learning social studies but their reading scores are going up, they are not getting an education,'' Ms. Ravitch said in 2005, as the mayor coasted to re-election.
The mayor and chancellor dismissed these criticisms as the hidebound defenses of an old, failed system devoid of meaningful standards. But some questions were also being raised by people close to the administration.
In the Education Department headquarters on Chambers Street, some officials argued that the A-through-F system of grading schools should incorporate not only the English and math tests, but also the science and social studies exams given by the state. ''We wanted to draw this as broadly as possible,'' said a former school official who spoke on the condition of anonymity to avoid publicly disagreeing with Mr. Klein.
But after months of running models and tweaking formulas, Mr. Klein decided to stick with the two core subjects. After all, he often argued, if students could not master essential math and English skills, it would be impossible for them to grasp other concepts.
Dr. Noguera, the N.Y.U. education professor and adviser to the city, applauded Mr. Klein for creating a grading system that rewarded improvement from year to year so that schools in poor neighborhoods had the same chance of achieving a good grade as those in wealthier areas.
But it also was risky, Dr. Noguera said. ''That got schools fixated on how to raise scores, not looking for more authentic learning,'' he said.
Dr. Noguera expressed his views publicly and to some of Mr. Klein's deputies, but never directly told the chancellor, he said.
Mr. Klein said in recent interviews that while the tests were imperfect, they were still the best measurements available for a school system that previously had no yardsticks. They also were not the only signs proving the city had been making progress, he said: On more difficult federal tests given to a sample of fourth and eighth graders, the city had steadily improved.
And the city's main goal, he said, was not simply giving out laurels for students' scoring 3s (''proficient'') and 4s (''advanced'') on the state tests.
Instead, its system of school grades and teacher incentives gave considerable weight to scores that showed improvement from year to year at all levels.
''Nobody else was doing this,'' Mr. Klein said. ''We never said it was good enough to get to passing and just stay there.''
In 2006, the state added tests for the third, fifth, sixth and seventh grades, in order to align with the requirements of No Child Left Behind. Scores jumped in 2007.
There were improvements at every grade level across the state and in New York City, where 65 percent of all students met state standards in math, an improvement of eight percentage points in one year.
''I'm happy, thrilled -- ecstatic, I think, is a better word,'' Mr. Bloomberg said at the time. ''The hard work going on in our schools is really paying off.''
After Mr. Bloomberg's first full term as mayor, the new scores seemed to ratify his claims of success. They also raised more alarms.
As a superintendent in the Brownsville section of Brooklyn, Kathleen Cashin had seen several schools improve throughout the early part of the decade. But when she saw the sudden jump, she said, she was shocked.
''I said to my intimate circle of staff, this cannot be possible,'' Ms. Cashin recalled. ''I knew how much effort and how much planning any little improvement would take, and not all of these schools had done any of it.''
But Ms. Cashin, who retired in February, held her tongue at the time. Asked why she did not take up her concerns with Mr. Klein or his deputies, she said, ''I didn't have their ear.''
A Proposal for a Fix
The following winter, Professor Koretz, of Harvard, and Professor Everson, of CUNY, who was a member of a state testing advisory group, sent a memo to state education officials.
''Research has shown that when educators are pressured to raise scores on conventional achievement tests, some improve instruction, while others turn to inappropriate methods of test preparation that inflate scores,'' they wrote in the Feb. 5, 2008, memo. ''In some cases, the inflation of scores has been extreme.''
The researchers proposed to devise a kind of audit. While tests tended to be similar from year to year, they would add to each exam some questions that did not resemble those from previous years. If a class performed well on the main section of the test but poorly on the added questions, that would be evidence that scores were inflated by test preparation. If a class performed well on both, the researchers wrote, that teacher might have methods worth emulating.
In addition, they wrote, such a system would give teachers ''less incentive to engage in inappropriate test preparation and more incentive to undertake the much harder task of improving instruction.''
State education officials, the professors said, did not give them a hearing.
The 2008 results showed even more large gains -- 74 percent of city students were deemed proficient in math, an increase of nine points in one year; and the city's passing rate in reading was now 58 percent, up from 51 percent two years earlier. Statewide, the passing rates jumped to 81 percent in math and 69 percent in reading.
Professor Koretz and Professor Everson wrote another memo in September 2008, again proposing to create a way to make test results more reliable. But the idea went nowhere.
Richard Mills, who resigned as education commissioner in 2009 after 14 years, said in an interview that his administration was confident the tests had been working properly because they had gone through several vetting processes with independent testing experts.
''The whole testing matter at the state and national level is about judgments, and therefore it also always includes criticism,'' Mr. Mills said. ''Is it too hard or is it too easy? There is almost never a point -- or at least it doesn't endure for very long -- where people say it is just right.''
A Decisive Year
The city's Department of Education constantly mines test score data for patterns to show where improvement is happening and where it is needed. In 2008, it noticed an incongruity: Eighth graders who scored at least a 3 on the state math exam had only a 50 percent chance of graduating from high school four years later with a Regents diploma, which requires a student to pass a certain number of tests in various subjects and is considered the minimum qualification for college readiness.
The city realized that the test results were not as reliable as the state was leading people to believe.
Mr. Klein and several of his deputies spoke by phone with Merryl H. Tisch, the vice chancellor of the Board of Regents, and Mr. Mills, trying to persuade them to create a statewide accountability system similar to the city's, one that gave improvement at least as much weight as the score itself.
The state said it would consider moving to such a system, but would need more time.
Neither the city nor state publicly disclosed the concerns about the scores. By then, students across the state were preparing for the 2009 tests, filling in bubbles on mock answer sheets, using at least three years of previous state tests as guides.
The scores arrived in May, and with them, the bluntest warning yet.
Just before the results were released, a member of the Regents named Betty Rosa called Ms. Tisch, who had recently become chancellor.
Ms. Rosa, who had been a teacher, principal and superintendent in the Bronx for nearly three decades, said the unprecedented high scores simply seemed too good to be true. She suggested the unthinkable: the scores were so unbelievable, she said, that the state should not publicly release them.
''The question was really are we telling the public the truth,'' Ms. Rosa said in a recent interview. Ms. Tisch, she said, relayed that she, too, found the scores suspicious, but that it would be impossible to withhold them. ''It was like a train that was already in motion and no way to stop it,'' Ms. Rosa said.
The English test scores showed 69 percent of city students passing. Mr. Bloomberg called the results ''nothing short of amazing and exactly what this country needs.''
''We have improved the test scores in English,'' he continued, ''and we expect the same results in math in a couple of weeks, every single year for seven years.'' Four weeks later, it was announced that 82 percent of city students had passed the math tests.
Because of the widespread improvement in the scores, 84 percent of all public schools received an A in the city's grading system, something Mr. Klein said he later regretted. This year, the city limited the number of A's to 25 percent of schools.
The 2009 numbers came out as the mayor was trying to accomplish two goals: to persuade the Legislature to give the mayor control of the schools for another seven years; and to convince city voters that he deserved a third term.
Mr. Bloomberg's opponent, Comptroller William C. Thompson, had once been president of the Education Board.
''Mike Bloomberg changed that system,'' said one of the mayor's campaign advertisements. ''Now, record graduation rates. Test scores up, violence down. So when you compare apples to apples, Thompson offers politics as usual. Mike Bloomberg offers progress.''
In his debates, Mr. Bloomberg hammered home the theme. ''If anybody thinks that the schools were better when Bill ran them, they should vote for him,'' he said in one face-off. ''And if anybody thinks they're better now, I'd be honored to have their vote.''
Indeed, according to exit polls, 57 percent of those who said education was their primary concern voted for Mr. Bloomberg, who won the election by a five-point margin.
Mr. Wolfson, the deputy mayor and 2009 campaign strategist, said the mayor had no regrets about focusing on the exams as a matter of policy, and during the election.
''What's the converse?'' he said. ''The converse is that we don't test and we have no way of judging success or failure. Either you believe in standards or tests, or you don't -- and life is not like that. There are tests all the time.''
Ms. Tisch, in releasing the 2009 test results, had not heeded Ms. Rosa's radical request. But the very day she put out the English test results, she began openly acknowledging doubts about the scores, irking the mayor and chancellor, who privately seethed that she was seeking to undermine their success. ''As a board, we will ask whether the test is getting harder or easier,'' she said.
Although the Regents did not immediately opt to create an entirely new test, Ms. Tisch and David Steiner, the new education commissioner, asked Professor Koretz, who had been rebuffed in previous requests, to analyze the ones that were in use. His conclusion -- and that of another researcher, Jennifer L. Jennings -- was that the tests had become too easy, and hence the scores were inflated. That led the State Education Department to raise the number of correct answers required to pass each test.
The state intends to rewrite future tests to encompass a broader range of material, and will stop publicly releasing them.
''We came in here saying we have to stop lying to our kids,'' Ms. Tisch said in a recent interview. ''We have to be able to know what they do and do not know.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Experts warned that the tests had become too easy to pass. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
Randi Weingarten, second from left, president of the teachers' union, Joel I. Klein, center, and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg in 2009 discussing math results. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID GOLDMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
DANIEL KORETZ, Harvard professor (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELE McDONALD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
BETTY ROSA, member of the Board of Regents (PHOTOGRAPH BY KIRSTEN LUCE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A18) GRAPHICS: Too Good to Be True: Student test scores in most states have improved in recent years. In New York, the increases were steep, particularly in New York City, where Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg based much of his reputation for competent management on ballooning achievement. (Sources: New York State Department of Education
Jennifer L. Jennings and Jonathan M. Bearak, Harvard University and New York University
 National Center for Education Statistics) (GRAPHICS BY FORD FESSENDEN AND ROBERT GEBELOFF/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); EDUCATION REFORM (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (76%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (76%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (76%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); INTERVIEWS (74%); CITIES (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (78%); BARACK OBAMA (54%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2010



278 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: In Higher Education, a Focus on Technology

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
The education gap facing the nation's work force is evident in the numbers. Most new jobs will require more than a high school education, yet fewer than half of Americans under 30 have a postsecondary degree of any kind. Recent state budget cuts, education experts agree, promise to make closing that gap even more difficult.
The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, the William and Flora Hewlett Foundation, and four nonprofit education organizations are beginning an ambitious initiative to address that challenge by accelerating the development and use of online learning tools. 
An initial $20 million round of money, from the Gates Foundation, will be for postsecondary online courses, particularly ones tailored for community colleges and low-income young people. Another round of grants, for high school programs, is scheduled for next year.
Just how effective technology can be in improving education -- by making students more effective, more engaged learners -- is a subject of debate. To date, education research shows that good teachers matter a lot, class size may be less important than once thought and nothing improves student performance as much as one-on-one human tutoring.
If technology is well designed, experts say, it can help tailor the learning experience to individual students, facilitate student-teacher collaboration, and assist teachers in monitoring student performance each day and in quickly fine-tuning lessons.
The potential benefits of technology are greater as students become older, more independent learners. Making that point, Mr. Gates said in an interview that for children from kindergarten to about fifth grade ''the idea that you stick them in front of a computer is ludicrous.''
But in higher education, there are several promising projects that have used online technology effectively.
And so the new initiative, Next Generation Learning Challenges, focuses on the college years. It is looking for innovative tools that can be developed and shared across networks of colleges. The grants, for $250,000 to $750,000 each, are intended to scale up such efforts, so they become self-sustaining.
The money is for online courses and tools, and any software developed with it must be freely licensed.
The program's members say the timing seems right for such an effort, partly because the technology of online learning is advancing rapidly. And, they add, budget-constrained colleges have a greater economic incentive to try online tools, if they are going to make headway in preparing a greater number of students for an economy that increasingly requires workers with higher levels of skills.
''Innovation is your only hope,'' Bill Gates said. ''And the only new game in town is technology.''
Among the projects that have successfully used online technology is the Open Learning Initiative at Carnegie Mellon University, which has adopted hybrid models of digital and classroom teaching to accelerate learning. In one project, a college statistics course was taught in two different ways using comparable groups of students: a traditional class lasted 15 weeks, with four class meetings a week, whereas a hybrid one of online course material held two classroom sessions a week.
The hybrid class lasted half as long -- seven-and-a-half weeks -- as the traditional setting. Yet the students' test scores and retained learning, measured later in the year, were as high as or higher than those of the conventional lecture class, said Candace M. Thille, director of the initiative.
In short, the hybrid approach doubled the productivity of education in that program. The course materials, which have been modified for community colleges, have been introduced at 25 two-year colleges this fall.
The members of the Next Generation Learning Challenges point to such examples, as well as free online video lectures and coursework at projects like Massachusetts Institute of Technology's OpenCourseWare and AcademicEarth.org, as vehicles to ''leverage teachers,'' not replace them.
The online tools, they say, can help open up educational pathways to skills, especially for low-income young adults. ''Access is becoming more and more of an issue,'' said Victor V. Vuchic, an education expert at the Hewlett Foundation. ''This goes right to the heart of that problem.''
The Gates and Hewlett foundations worked closely with four other education nonprofits in creating the initiative: Educause, the Council of Chief State School Officers, League for Innovation in the Community College and International Association for K-12 Online Learning.
''They want these innovative online programs to reside in the educational community, as they have to if they are going to scale up and spread,'' said Diana G. Oblinger, president of Educause, which focuses on the use of technology in higher education.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bill Gates, through the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, is giving an initial $20 million for postsecondary online courses. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NELSON CHING/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); FOUNDATIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); DISTANCE LEARNING (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ONLINE SCHOOLS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (88%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (78%); TEACHER EDUCATION (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); INDEPENDENT STUDY (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (72%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (72%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (68%); INTERVIEWS (64%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (54%)

ORGANIZATION: BILL & MELINDA GATES FOUNDATION (90%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2010



279 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 421 words

HEADLINE: Balkans, Past and Future

 BODY:
Bosnia, Serbia and Kosovo have come a long way since the 1990s. Serbia is no longer a rogue aggressor. Bosnia is no longer a killing field. And Kosovo, once a terrorized province of Serbia, is now an independent state. Washington and, in particular, former President Bill Clinton deserve a large share of the credit. 
When Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton visits all three states this week, she will need to press them to continue the reforms, and the diplomacy, that are essential to their transition to a democratic, prosperous peace.
There is still an extraordinary amount of old business to resolve. President Boris Tadic of Serbia is eager for his country to join the European Union and has worked to lower regional tensions. This spring Belgrade finally accepted responsibility and apologized for the wartime Srebrenica massacre. But the government has yet to locate and hand over the military leader directly responsible for that crime, Gen. Ratko Mladic, for trial in The Hague, as Europe insists.
Belgrade still refuses to recognize Kosovo's independence, but has agreed to European Union-mediated talks. Mrs. Clinton should press both sides to engage seriously. Kosovo's ethnic Albanian majority, whose rights Washington went to war to defend, must also do a better job of protecting its own ethnic Serb minority.
Bosnia's hugely complex political institutions, cobbled together at Dayton, are badly hobbling its progress. Fifteen years later, its two rival ministates (one predominantly Serb, the other mainly Muslim-Croat) with a three-person presidency can barely make decisions on essential issues. These include resettling refugees, resolving property disputes and deciding whether the national government or ministates should control former Yugoslav military buildings and equipment.
In national elections this month, Muslims and Croats chose moderate, more nationally minded representatives. The Bosnian Serbs elected leaders who are still calling for secession. Mrs. Clinton must make clear to the Bosnian Serbs that partition means isolation, while cooperation will open opportunities to join the wider European economy. She should also press the case for reforming the Dayton arrangements to create a unified, functioning state.
The chance for European Union membership is the best incentive for these three countries to move ahead. But recession and resurgent German nationalism have weakened the authority of E.U. institutions. The United States will have to stay strongly engaged to see things through.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); GENOCIDE (73%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); REFUGEES (69%); RELIGION (64%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (83%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (71%) SERBIA (99%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (96%); KOSOVO (94%); EUROPE (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CROATIA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); GERMANY (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); ALBANIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2010



280 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: DAYS TO ELECTION 22: Democrats Vie for Votes, And Their Party's Largess

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
COLUMBUS, Ohio - Embattled Democratic lawmakers must fight this week to impress two audiences: voters, and party leaders back in Washington now deciding where to invest for the campaign homestretch.
Here in the Midwest, that dynamic adds urgency to Representative Mary Jo Kilroy's attacks on her Republican opponent, Steve Stivers, whom she casts as a stooge for corporate interests on issues like health care and financial regulation. Ms. Kilroy, below, who is in her first term and has already seen the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee postpone television advertisements planned for her benefit, needs to demonstrate her viability to ensure that the party comes up with money during the last three weeks before Election Day.
''I've received repeated assurances that the Democratic Party is with me,'' Ms. Kilroy said in an interview. But the fact that such assurances are necessary demonstrates the concern among Democrats facing stiff challenges that they may be left to their own devices against a Republican electoral wave. 
Party leaders have long prepared for this reckoning, which is unavoidable given the breadth of Democrats' political vulnerability. Charlie Cook, a nonpartisan political handicapper, now calculates that 90 seats currently held by Democrats are in jeopardy, up from 81 seats a month earlier.
That vulnerability is evident in planned travel this week by President Obama and other major Democratic figures.
After a White House event on Monday highlighting the benefits of infrastructure spending, Mr. Obama is to join the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, in Florida to raise money and stump for Representative Ron Klein, the Democrat who won with 55 percent of the vote two years ago but now is at risk. The president will end the week campaigning for Gov. Deval Patrick in Massachusetts.
Former President Bill Clinton, too, is fighting to defend once-friendly territory. In addition to appearances for Senate candidates in West Virginia and Kentucky, Mr. Clinton is heading to California to buttress the bid for governor by Jerry Brown, his onetime presidential campaign rival.
What has Democratic candidates on the defensive is the nation's economic weakness, as was underscored last week when the Labor Department's final pre-election report showed unemployment unchanged at 9.6 percent. That's nearly two percentage points higher than when Mr. Obama took office.
Republicans have found a receptive public by accusing Democrats of enacting a costly and ineffective economic stimulus, and passing an expansive health care plan that has not helped those who are out of work. In the next three weeks, Democrats hope to redirect public ire toward Republican policies that they say led to the recession, and toward business interests that are as unpopular with many voters as lawmakers themselves.
That is why the White House has begun taking aim at efforts to help Republicans by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and former advisers to President George W. Bush. And that is why Ms. Kilroy is attacking Mr. Stivers, a former state legislator and bank lobbyist, for receiving assistance from those same sources.
''I'm afraid Steve Stivers will go back into that Wall Street casino mentality,'' she said. And while Mr. Stivers favors ''fixing'' the new health care law rather than repealing it, Ms. Kilroy insisted that ''he's going to fix it for the people pouring money into his campaign account, like the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.''
''She can't talk about jobs and she can't talk about spending, so she's going to name-call,'' Mr. Stivers responded. His focus on those topics has, according to both parties, moved him ahead of the incumbent, who barely defeated him when Mr. Obama carried Ohio two years ago.
Democratic strategists in Washington have adjusted by delaying advertisements on her behalf by three weeks, until Oct. 26, cutting in half the $1.1 million they had originally planned to spend. And as they seek to salvage other struggling candidates - they accelerated by two weeks their advertisements for Representative John M. Spratt Jr. of South Carolina - there is no guarantee that Ms. Kilroy will be the beneficiary of those remaining commercials, either.
There are other ways party leaders can help struggling candidates, and Ms. Kilroy will benefit from one of them in a week. Hoping to drive turnout among younger voters for the re-election bids of Gov. Ted Strickland of Ohio and several House members, Mr. Obama has scheduled a large rally here for Oct. 17 at the Ohio State University campus.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLES DHARAPAK/ASSOCIATED PRESS0) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); GOVERNORS (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (72%); STATISTICS (70%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (70%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (66%); RECESSION (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (64%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (60%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (55%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (55%); INFRASTRUCTURE (52%)

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC CONGRESSIONAL CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (57%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); STEVE STIVERS (59%); RON KLEIN (58%); DEVAL PATRICK (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); NANCY PELOSI (57%); JERRY BROWN (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (92%) OHIO, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2010



281 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 351 words

HEADLINE: Obama Adviser Is Cautious on Call for Halt to Foreclosures

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (AP) -- A top White House adviser questioned the need on Sunday for a blanket halt to home foreclosures, even as pressure grows on the Obama administration to do something about growing evidence that banks have used inaccurate documents to evict homeowners. 
''It is a serious problem,'' said David Axelrod, who said that the flawed paperwork was hurting the nation's housing market as well as lending institutions. But he added, ''I'm not sure about a national moratorium because there are in fact valid foreclosures that probably should go forward'' because their documents are accurate.
Mr. Axelrod said the administration was pressing lenders to accelerate their reviews of foreclosures to determine which ones had flawed documentation.
''Our hope is this moves rapidly and that this gets unwound very, very quickly,'' he said.
With the reeling economy already the top issue on voters' minds, the doubts raised over foreclosures and evictions are becoming a political issue with the approach of the Nov. 2 elections.
Underscoring those pressures, two leading lawmakers took opposing stances on the wisdom of a moratorium.
Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz, a Democrat from Florida, said she backed a foreclosure moratorium and government discussions with the banking industry to devise ways to let lenders reshape troubled mortgages. She said the foreclosure problem had been ''extremely vexing'' in her state.
The No. 2 Republican in the House, Eric Cantor of Virginia, said a national moratorium would remove the protections that lenders needed.
''You're going to shut down the housing industry'' with a national stoppage, Mr. Cantor said. ''People have to take responsibility for themselves.''
On Friday, Bank of America became the first bank to halt foreclosures in all 50 states. Three other institutions, JPMorgan Chase, the GMAC Mortgage unit of Ally Bank and PNC Financial Services, have stopped foreclosures in the 23 states where foreclosures must be approved by a judge.
Mr. Axelrod spoke on ''Face the Nation'' on CBS, and Ms. Wasserman Schultz and Mr. Cantor were on ''Fox News Sunday.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); EVICTION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); ELECTIONS (75%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (73%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (66%); APPROVALS (61%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (81%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); ALLY FINANCIAL INC (54%); PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (53%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); PNC (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (81%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (81%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (54%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); ERIC CANTOR (78%); DAVID AXELROD (78%); DEBBIE WASSERMAN SCHULTZ (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2010



282 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1247 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Is Poised To Gain in Races For Governor

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY and MONICA DAVEY; Kitty Bennett and Amanda Cox contributed research.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Republicans are well-positioned to pick up a substantial number of governor's seats in this year's election, with potentially far-reaching effects on issues like the new health care law, Congressional redistricting and presidential politics.
Democrats hold 26 governorships, and Republicans 24. But the balance appears likely to shift, perhaps markedly, with Republicans holding the upper hand in many of this year's 37 races, including those in crucial political battlegrounds.
In Iowa, Michigan and Pennsylvania -- all states that have Democratic governors -- Republicans have pulled away from their opponents. The Republican Party is also increasing its investment in Democratic-leaning states like Illinois, Massachusetts and Oregon, seeing opportunities for pickups there as well.
Democrats are in tough fights in Minnesota, Ohio and Wisconsin, hoping to block a Republican sweep of the Midwest. And they are intensifying efforts in California, Florida and Georgia, all tossup races in states that have Republican governors. 
Much of the focus has been on Republican efforts to win control of Congress, but a wave of Republican victories in the governor's races could have just as significant, and potentially longer lasting, implications.
Many of the governors who are in office over the next two years will preside over the redrawing of Congressional and legislative districts based on the 2010 census, giving them considerable influence over the political map for the next decade. In at least 36 states, governors have a say in how Congressional districts will be redrawn. And governors in at least 39 states have a role in shaping state legislative maps.
Having Republicans in office in big battleground states could also complicate President Obama's re-election campaign, which could find it that much harder to hang on to crucial swing states like Ohio and Pennsylvania. And Republican governors would be a force in how Obama administration initiatives in health care, education, economic stimulus and other issues are installed on the state level, intensifying partisan policy battles.
''Governor's races are important every cycle, but this year they are arguably more important to the future of Congress than the Congressional races themselves,'' said Gov. Jack Markell of Delaware, chairman of the Democratic Governors Association.
The contests have attracted several business executives, many of whom are investing tens of millions of dollars from their own fortunes into their campaigns, which means voters are seeing dozens of television ads each day from Republicans like Meg Whitman in California and Rick Scott in Florida.
The governor's races will also produce the next class of leaders in both parties, with the Republican field more diverse. In South Carolina, voters could elect the first Indian-American female governor in the country, while New Mexico could get its first Hispanic female governor.
''They want someone who isn't part of the status quo,'' said Susana Martinez, a Republican district attorney who has campaigned for governor in New Mexico on pledges to secure the border by ending the practice of allowing illegal immigrants to receive driver's licenses, to end a pattern of corruption and to improve the education system.
In state after state, Republican candidates are criticizing the health care law and the stimulus plan, even as they grapple with spending cuts, overburdened pension systems and unemployment. The anxieties are being translated into a broader feeling from voters: a call for change not only in Washington but also in state capitals.
The answer to that demand in several states, Democrats say, is a Democrat, not a Republican.
Alex Sink, the chief financial officer of Florida and the Democratic nominee for governor, is locked in a fierce fight with Mr. Scott, a Republican who has never sought public office. But even as her opponent has tried to link her to Mr. Obama, Ms. Sink has reminded voters that Florida has been governed by Republicans for the last decade.
''I am the person who is representing a change in outlook,'' Ms. Sink said. ''But a governor can't be a parrot of what's going on in Washington. A governor has to stick up for her state.''
Three weeks before Election Day, Democrats are bracing for deep losses. But party officials are already pointing to races in several states, particularly California, Florida and Texas, where Democratic nominees for governor have run stronger than candidates for the House or the Senate, a sign, they say, that the party has not entirely collapsed.
But Republican candidates for governor are benefiting from the same climate that has put the party in position to win control of the House and make gains in the Senate.
In Oregon, it has been almost 24 years since a Republican was governor. Chris Dudley, a Republican who has never held office, is in a close race with John A. Kitzhaber, a Democrat who served as governor from 1995 to 2003.
''People are tired of the same faces,'' said Mr. Dudley, a 6-foot-11 former member of the Portland Trail Blazers. ''Trust in government is at a historic low. There's a lack of connection between those in the capital and those across the state.''
Third-party candidates are having a pronounced effect on governor's races, one more sign of upheaval and distress in the minds of voters. In at least five states -- Colorado, Maine, Massachusetts, Minnesota and Rhode Island -- third-party candidates could be on track to win 10 percent of the vote or more.
Eric J. Ostermeier of the Humphrey Institute of Public Affairs at the University of Minnesota said it was the highest number of states with prominent third-party candidates for governor since the Great Depression, aside from the tumultuous season of 1994.
''I think there are Minnesotans and Americans who are saying, 'Yes, we are angry, but now we need to do something about it,' '' said Tom Horner, the Independence Party candidate in Minnesota, whose support was 18 percent in a recent poll. ''There is a radical center ready to emerge.''
Mr. Horner is in a field with Mark Dayton, a Democrat and former senator who wants to raise taxes for the wealthiest, and Tom Emmer, a Republican who has pledged to cut the size of government and spending in some areas to ease a projected $6 billion state deficit in the next two years.
''In 2010, there are a lot of Minnesotans who are saying we need that kind of reform,'' said Mr. Horner, a former public relations executive and political analyst. ''This time we can't look to the Democrats or the Republicans.''
In Michigan, where recession only worsened already difficult economic conditions, Rick Snyder, a Republican and the former head of Gateway Inc., has broken away from his Democratic opponent, Virg Bernero. Mr. Snyder, who has promised to ''reinvent Michigan,'' is one of several first-time nontraditional Republican political candidates.
Gov. Jennifer M. Granholm of Michigan, a Democrat who cannot seek re-election because of term limits, said it was ironic that the Democratic agenda might be rejected. She suggested that Republicans' advocacy of cuts -- to education, optional Medicaid coverage and prisons, for instance -- would only leave people feeling less secure.
''What I think many people are suffering from is a case of acute impatience,'' Ms. Granholm said. ''They want a quick fix. And they can't stand the uncertainty that they find themselves in today. And they figure that any change is better than the status quo.''

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Four Important Governor's Races: The races in California and Florida have been among the most expensive contests in 2010, and both are still tough fights.
 Pennsylvania, where Republicans appear to have a large lead, and Wisconsin are two of the seats that Republicans hope to pick up. (Source: Campaign Media Analysis Group (television spending)) (A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (92%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); REDISTRICTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (89%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); HEALTH CARE LAW (72%); EXECUTIVES (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (64%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (63%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (50%)

PERSON: MARGARET C WHITMAN (79%); SUSANA MARTINEZ (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); RICK SCOTT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2010



283 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1189 words

HEADLINE: From Tea Party Advocates, an Undercurrent of Anger at the Federal Reserve

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Federal Reserve, having weathered criticism of its regulatory failings and interest rate decisions in the years before the financial crisis, is facing a new source of anger: the Tea Party movement.
Take, for example, three Republican nominees for the Senate who relied on support from Tea Party activists to vanquish primary rivals supported by the party establishment:
In Utah, Mike Lee has accused the central bank of trying to ''monetize the debt'' by printing money to buy government bonds -- a motivation that Fed officials have hotly denied. Ken Buck in Colorado has called for ''shining a light on the Federal Reserve,'' saying it is too cozy with private interests. And in Kentucky, Rand Paul has argued that the Fed is devaluing the dollar and causing boom-bust cycles through its easy-money policies.
They have made the Fed a target of their ire, linking it to their criticisms of President Obama's stimulus effort and the Wall Street bailouts begun under President George W. Bush. 
None of them has gone as far, though, as Mr. Paul's father, Representative Ron Paul, a Texas Republican and libertarian activist who is seeking to abolish the central bank. (His 2009 book, ''End the Fed,'' is popular in Tea Party circles.) The senior Mr. Paul, who ran for president in 2008, is in line to lead a House subcommittee that oversees the Fed if Republicans win control of that chamber in November.
Criticism of the Fed has been more of a simmering undercurrent in this election cycle than a dominant theme, even for insurgent candidates. But Fed officials, who try to avoid public discussion of electoral politics, have become increasingly attuned to the probability that their critics will have a louder voice in the next Congress.
The likely outcome is greater scrutiny of the Fed, even though the Wall Street regulatory overhaul that Mr. Obama signed in July already calls for a one-time audit of the Fed's emergency lending programs as well as a study by the Government Accountability Office of how the central bank is governed.
''The Fed has become politicized, whether we like it or not,'' said Tyler Cowen, an economist at George Mason University who writes a macroeconomics blog.
To be sure, mistrust of central banking has been an enduring theme in American history. The Fed, established in 1913, is the nation's third central bank; the other two expired in 1811 and 1836 when their charters lapsed.
''There's always been this strong tension between people who are likely to be debtors, and who are in effect in favor of cheap money, and people who are creditors and in favor of hard money,'' said Benjamin M. Friedman, a Harvard economist whose 2005 book, ''The Moral Consequences of Economic Growth,'' argued that growth was essential for social and political progress.
Historically, anger at the Fed has been voiced from the left and the right, but lately it has been more pronounced among conservatives. Mr. Friedman said the anger had ''understandable origins,'' saying it resulted from stagnation in the incomes of ordinary citizens, compounded now by high unemployment.
Some critics, however, say the Fed has been too eager to fight unemployment and should be more attentive to inflation risks.
One is Peter D. Schiff, who runs a brokerage firm in Westport, Conn., and unsuccessfully sought the Republican nomination for the Senate in Connecticut this year, with Tea Party support.
Mr. Schiff assailed the Fed's decisions to cut short-term interest rates to nearly zero and buy $1.7 trillion in mortgage-backed assets and Treasury securities to stimulate the economy.
''What we need now is higher interest rates, severe cuts in spending,'' he said. ''And that will bring about a severe downturn, but there's no way around it. We have to swallow some bitter medicine; if we don't, we're going to get sicker and sicker.''
He added: ''The Fed is the enabler, by keeping credit flowing. It is a drug dealer.''
Mr. Schiff -- who warned in a 2007 book of impending economic collapse and has made Web videos on the topic -- is hardly outside the Republican mainstream.
Representative Spencer T. Bachus of Alabama, the top Republican on the House Financial Services Committee, has also used a drug analogy to describe the Fed's interventions.
''As with any addiction, an altered state is created where the only choices are permanent addiction or a sometimes painful withdrawal,'' Mr. Bachus said at a House hearing in February.
Dick Armey, a former House majority leader and now a Tea Party organizer, blames the Fed for abetting the crisis by keeping interest rates too low for too long after the 2001 recession.
A few Tea Party candidates, like Mr. Lee in Utah, have come close to urging a return to the gold standard, which the United States essentially abandoned in 1933.
Mr. Lee, in a forum with voters last year, questioned the use of fiat money, currency that has no intrinsic value but the full faith and credit of the government that issues it. ''Maybe we ought to return to the gold system,'' he said. ''I don't really care whether it's gold or silver or platinum or Grape-Nuts or Corn Flakes. It's got to be based on something.''
The ire at the Fed may be broad but not very deep. A New York Times/CBS News poll in April found that Tea Party supporters were more likely than all adults surveyed to say they had heard or read about the Fed. While a plurality of Tea Party supporters and all respondents said they had confidence in the Fed to promote financial stability, a sizable minority of both groups said they did not know enough to say.
Even so, the anger has been strong enough to raise some concerns among Republicans. ''The positions that have become almost mainstream, at least on the right, used to be extreme positions,'' Vin Weber, a Republican and a former congressman from Minnesota, told Bloomberg Television this month. ''Only the John Birch Society used to call for the auditing of the Federal Reserve.''
In an essay titled ''Mend the Fed,'' published in The National Review in June, Josh Barro, a fellow at the Manhattan Institute, noted with dismay that Tea Party activists had gotten the Maine Republican Party to adopt a platform calling for an audit as ''the first step in ending the Fed.''
''There's always a problem with unaccountable government agencies, but on the other hand the Fed has had a free hand to do things that have been necessary and unpopular,'' Mr. Barro said in an interview. ''If Congress had had the power to stop all the asset purchases the Fed has done, we might have dropped into deflation the last couple of years.''
Thomas M. Hoenig, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, is the most prominent inflation ''hawk'' at the Fed, having dissented repeatedly from the Fed's stance that it intends to keep interest rates near zero for ''an extended period.''
Mr. Hoenig appeared recently before the Hope for America Coalition, an anti-Fed group, in Lenexa, Kan. He noted that financial panics regularly troubled the economy before the Fed was created. He might not have changed their minds, he said, but the crowd was polite and appreciated his willingness to dissent.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Thomas M. Hoenig, above, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, is an inflation ''hawk.'' Ron Paul spoke to Tea Party advocates Saturday in Richmond, Va. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NATI HARNIK/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 BOB BROWN/RICHMOND TIMES-DISPATCH, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); POLITICS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); US LIBERTARIAN PARTY (79%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); DEVALUATION (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); BONDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); CURRENCIES (76%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); HISTORY (60%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (55%)

PERSON: RON PAUL (90%); MIKE LEE (57%); RAND PAUL (57%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (79%) UTAH, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2010



284 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 613 words

HEADLINE: In Vietnam, Gates to Discuss Maritime Claims of China

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER

 BODY:
HANOI, Vietnam -- Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates landed Sunday in Vietnam, where the narrative of a past war with the United States has faded as the leadership here openly seeks American support to counter an increasingly assertive China.
Mr. Gates has scheduled private talks with his Vietnamese counterpart during a conference of defense ministers from across the region, where a key issue will be how to manage China's expanded claims of maritime rights in the South China Sea. China has backed those claims with threats of economic retaliation against some nations in the region. 
A senior Defense Department official traveling aboard Mr. Gates's airplane to Hanoi said the defense ministers from the Association of Southeast Asian Nations would look for common ground on the issues of counterterrorism, peacekeeping and, with China in attendance, a response to Beijing's push for increased sovereignty over international waters.
Mr. Gates faces a delicate balancing act. He must reassure Asian partners and allies that the United States will remain engaged in the region and will work for a peaceful resolution of the competing claims over islands, undersea mineral wealth and fishing rights. But he must do so without jeopardizing his equally important efforts to restore a healthy military-to-military dialogue with China.
China and the United States have already sparred over China's claims in the South China Sea, with the United States allied with Vietnam on the issue. In March, at least one senior Chinese official raised the level of its claim, asserting to two senior White House officials visiting Beijing that the South China Sea was a ''core interest,'' a phrase that placed it on a par with Taiwan and Tibet, which China considers parts of its territory.
In Hanoi in July, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton hardened Washington's stance by saying the United States had a ''national interest'' in freedom of navigation in the area.
The defense secretary's expected arguments to China are clear: Beijing's dash to become a global economic power requires it to honor accepted standards for sharing oceans and airspace, and harassment of ships and airplanes in international lanes off its shores will harm China's long-term interests.
China is expected to invite Mr. Gates to Beijing, a significant change in tone. China froze military relations with the United States this year when the Obama administration announced $6.4 billion in arms sales to Taiwan.
Mr. Gates arrived in Vietnam 15 years after normalization of relations between the two countries, but the streets were overflowing with revelers for another celebration, the 1,000th anniversary of the founding of Hanoi. China and Vietnam have a long history of bloody competition, one that was buried for the years that China backed North Vietnam in pushing back American military involvement here.
Vietnam's worries over Chinese encroachment were reflected in its recent choices for weapons purchases. Last year, Vietnam signed deals with Russia to buy six Kilo-class diesel-powered hunter-killer submarines for $1.8 billion and eight Sukhoi jet fighters for another $500 million, according to the Congressional Research Service. Both weapons are designed for protecting territorial waters and airspace, and the deals also illustrate Russia's support of nations trying to curb China's power.
The United States, while seeking to improve diplomatic and military relations with Vietnam, has offered little in the way of arms, mostly focusing its assistance on military training and officer education. Washington has continuing human rights concerns with Vietnam, mostly about ensuring freedom of religion here.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (91%); OCEANS (89%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (77%); ISLANDS & REEFS (76%); FREEDOM OF THE SEAS (76%); ADMIRALTY LAW (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (73%); COUNTERTERRORISM (54%); TERRORISM (54%)

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS (56%)

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HANOI, VIETNAM (94%); BEIJING, CHINA (91%) PACIFIC OCEAN (93%); SOUTH CHINA SEA (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%) VIET NAM (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (96%); VIETNAM (94%); TAIWAN (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); TIBET (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2010



285 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1144 words

HEADLINE: In Pennsylvania, Anger Fuels a Race for Senate

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

 BODY:
BROOMALL, Pa. -- The voters of Pennsylvania are angry at Washington. And Pat Toomey, the Republican nominee for United States Senate, is glad to stoke the fury.
''The policies that we are seeing coming out of Washington are preventing us from having the kind of recovery that we could be having and should be having,'' Mr. Toomey declared after touring the ironworks shop of a spiral staircase manufacturer here.
His speech, variations of which he offers up at stops across the state, quickly turned into a punch list of supposed misdeeds he hopes to address, perpetrated by the Democrats controlling Congress and, by extension, his opponent, Representative Joe Sestak.
Bailouts: ''Taking resources from the productive companies like this one, productive workers like you, and sending them to failing companies.'' 
The economic stimulus: ''Over a trillion dollars of growing government, that's what it is.''
The health care bill: ''Another huge obstacle to job creation.''
Climate change legislation: ''Designed precisely to drive energy costs through the roof.''
Some of his assertions are fair. Some are a stretch but defensible. Others are false, like Mr. Toomey's claim that a recent law passed by Congress to aid small businesses would have the federal government buy a stake in local banks. The bill would channel government-backed loans through the banks.
Details, however, are beside the point. Anger is defining this race.
''Our employees have taken a 10 percent drop in pay and we, as owners, have taken a 50 percent cut,'' said Ron Cohen, the chief executive of the staircase company, the Iron Shop. ''I don't see Washington doing anything similar to that.'' He added, ''All I hear are more taxes and more regulations that make staying in business harder.''
These sorts of frustrations are lifting the candidacy of Mr. Toomey, 48, in his race against Mr. Sestak, a former vice admiral in the Navy who defied the Obama White House by challenging the five-term incumbent, Senator Arlen Specter, in the Democratic primary.
It was Mr. Toomey who set in motion Mr. Specter's political demise.
Mr. Toomey, a former representative, is an unwavering fiscal conservative who supported the Bush tax cuts of 2001 and 2003, backed using private retirement accounts in place of Social Security and opposed the Medicare prescription drug benefit because it cost too much. He nearly ousted Mr. Specter in the 2004 Senate primary.
Mr. Toomey's determination to win the nomination this year led Mr. Specter to become a Democrat after 44 years in the Republican Party.
Mr. Toomey grew up in Rhode Island, attended Harvard, worked as a derivatives trader on Wall Street and then owned, along with his brothers, two nightclubs and a sports bar in Allentown, Pa.
He served in the House from 1999 to 2004, kept his promise to retire after three terms, and then became president of the Club for Growth, a nonprofit group favoring low taxes and limited government.
Mr. Toomey could hardly have hoped for a better political climate for his antitax, small government message. For months, polls have shown him in the lead.
''These guys in Washington are creating an environment that is having a chilling effect on small businesses and medium and big businesses, as well, and that's a big part of why we don't have the job growth that we badly need,'' Mr. Toomey said in his visit to the ironworks shop.
''They are creating a staggering amount of debt, debt that is eventually going to have much higher interest rates, probably lead to very high inflation,'' he continued. ''It's a very worrisome combination, and we have got to get on a new track.''
What that new track would be was harder to explain.
Mr. Toomey says he favors making the Bush-era tax cuts permanent for all Americans -- which would add $700 billion more to the deficit over 10 years than the plan advocated by President Obama to let the lower rates expire for the rich. But he also expresses a desire to reduce the deficit.
At the ironworks shop, Mr. Toomey brushed aside a question from a local reporter who pointed out that real income for American workers dropped after the Bush tax cuts, saying he did not believe the data.
Mr. Toomey's own prescription for the economy includes repealing laws approved by the Democrats, blocking other Democratic goals and, of course, extending the tax cuts. ''We need to eliminate all these threats of downside uncertainty,'' he said.
He also said that Washington should cut spending, though he offered no specifics.
In Pennsylvania, as elsewhere, any connection to Washington is a liability. Mr. Sestak, who is still serving in the House, refers to his opponent as ''Congressman Toomey'' at every opportunity. Mr. Sestak's own campaign prefers to call him ''Admiral Sestak.''
Mr. Sestak graduated from the United States Naval Academy and, over a 31-year career, ascended to the rank of vice admiral. He earned a doctorate in political economy from Harvard and commanded a battle group in support of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.
In his campaign, Mr. Sestak emphasizes both his military services and his independence. He is also not backing down from his votes in favor of the major Democratic legislation. He uses his young daughter's battle with brain cancer to help explain why he supported the health care law.
In speeches, he talks in dramatic tones about his Navy service, in particular the days after the Sept. 11 attacks. But while skeptics typically preface their questions or criticism by saying they admire his military service, Mr. Sestak is clearly the underdog.
After a 40-minute speech by Mr. Sestak to the Rotary Club in York, Webster McCormack, 85, did not waste a moment before rendering a verdict: he will vote for Mr. Toomey.
''They have to cut taxes,'' Mr. McCormack said. ''You keep the government out of our pockets and we can do a better job of running our businesses.''
During the question-and-answer session at the Rotary speech, Scott Wagner, the owner of a local waste management company, stood up with a printout of the entire health care law and offered it to Mr. Sestak. ''Sir, I don't need it,'' Mr. Sestak shot back. ''I've read every word.''
But Mr. Wagner, who raises money for Republican candidates, was not done. ''You see this?'' he said. ''This is not good for business.''
In an interview, Mr. Wagner expressed deep anger at the government. ''We're being regulated to death,'' he said. But when asked for examples, he offered only I.R.S. Form 2290, which is used to file the ''heavy use vehicle tax'' -- a tax enacted in 1982 -- and the I-9 immigration form to prove an employee is legally allowed to work in the United States, which has been required since 1986.
Mr. Wagner said there was no doubt about how he would vote. ''I'm supporting Pat Toomey,'' he said. ''We're on the Titanic,'' Mr. Wagner added. ''The Titanic is going down and the music is playing fast.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Pat Toomey, left, at a Philadelphia restaurant last week receiving the endorsement of Gov. Luis G. Fortuno of Puerto Rico. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Representative Joe Sestak beat Senator Arlen Specter in the Democratic primary, but has struggled in the general election. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATT ROURKE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) GRAPHICS: Pennsylvania Senate: Former Representative Pat Toomey, emphasizing fiscal conservatism, forced the five-term incumbent Senator Arlen Specter to switch parties to avoid defeat in the Republican primary. Then Representative Joe Sestak, a retired vice admiral in the Navy, beat Mr. Specter for the Democratic nomination. Mr. Toomey has enjoyed a consistent lead in polls, but Mr. Sestak says his strong field operation will carry him to victory. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); TAX LAW (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); JOB CREATION (74%); BAILOUTS (74%); MEDICARE (73%); TAX INCENTIVES (73%); TAX RELIEF (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); HEALTH CARE LAW (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (71%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (69%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (65%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (63%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (50%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (59%)

PERSON: PAT TOOMEY (92%); JOE SESTAK (90%); ARLEN SPECTER (89%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALLENTOWN, PA, USA (78%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (73%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (95%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2010



286 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1297 words

HEADLINE: Seismic Shift In Cash Clout

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- At a private dinner on Friday at the Canadian Embassy, finance officials from seven world economic powers focused on the most vexing international economic problem facing the Obama administration.
Over seared scallops and beef tenderloin, Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner urged his counterparts from Europe, Canada and Japan to help persuade China to let its currency, the renminbi, rise in value -- a crucial element in redressing the trade imbalances that are threatening recovery around the world.
But the next afternoon, the annual meetings of the International Monetary Fund ended with a tepid statement that made only fleeting and indirect references to the simmering currency tensions.
The divergence between the mounting anxieties over Chinese policy and the cautious official response was a striking display of the difficulty of securing international economic cooperation, two years after the financial crisis began. 
Above all, officials say, the crisis has shifted influence from the richest powers toward Asia and Latin America, whose economies have weathered the recession much better than those of the United States, Europe and Japan.
''We have come to the end of a model where seven advanced economies can make decisions for the world without the emerging countries,'' said one European official involved in the weekend talks. ''Like it or not, we simply have to accept it.''
The debate over currency valuation is pivotal. World leaders broadly agree that for the global economy to be more stable, imbalances between creditor countries like China and Germany and debtor countries like the United States and Britain have to be fixed. Correcting those imbalances, some economists say, will help create jobs in the United States and reduce the threat of inflation and asset bubbles in China.
The shifting dynamics have most noticeably affected the United States, which pushed more forcefully than its counterparts for stronger pressure on China but has been unable to persuade them to stand with it at the forefront of the debate.
In general, the Europeans have taken a far more conciliatory line toward China. The French finance minister, Christine Lagarde, said on Saturday, ''It's not helpful to use bellicose statements when it comes to currency or to trade.''
In interviews, American and European officials involved in discussions over the Chinese currency last week outlined several reasons a unified position has been so hard to forge.
For one thing, China has moved adroitly to deflect criticism of its currency policies, by pledging to move at a gradual pace and by pointing to other sources of global imbalances. This leaves Western diplomats struggling to strike the right balance between forceful rhetoric and patient cajoling in pressuring China to act.
Another factor is that the most dire part of the crisis has passed, and many countries are now more concerned with their own national economies and no longer feel the urgency act in concert.
''We are moving from a consensual to a more confrontational period in global economic governance,'' said Thomas Kleine-Brockhoff, senior director of policy programs at the German Marshall Fund of the United States, which promotes trans-Atlantic cooperation.
Complicating the effort is a dispute between the United States and Europe over how to change board representation within the I.M.F. to give greater voice to the fast-growing economies that are propelling global growth. The Americans want emerging countries, especially China, to have more representation, and thus take on more responsibility. But Europe is reluctant to give up some of its positions on the board.
And significantly, in the eyes of many countries, the United States has lost some of the standing it needs to shape global policy. Not only is Wall Street viewed by many as having initiated the world financial crisis, but also, a number of countries fear that policies by the Federal Reserve are pushing down the dollar's value -- the same kind of currency weakening for which the Obama administration has criticized China.
''Other countries are no longer willing to buy into the idea that the U.S. knows best on economic policy, while at the same time the emerging markets have become increasingly influential and independent,'' said Kenneth S. Rogoff of Harvard, a former chief economist at the I.M.F.
The inconclusive I.M.F. outcome means that the renminbi's exchange rate will again be a focus when President Obama and other leaders of the Group of 20 economic powers gather next month in Seoul, South Korea. Officials said the United States would keep up pressure on China in the weeks leading up to that meeting.
Despite the bland language of the I.M.F. statement on Saturday, American and European officials said the weekend meetings were not a failure.
After all, the 187-member I.M.F. is not a customary forum for decisive collective action, and changes in national economic policies typically occur in a gradual, incremental fashion. A Treasury official pointed out that the gatherings focused high-level attention on the currency problem, and ended with an agreement for the I.M.F. to play a greater role in monitoring its members' exchange-rate practices and the ''spillover effects'' of each country's economic policies on the rest of the world.
Even so, economic and political forces have made it difficult for the United States to address what Mr. Geithner has called the ''central existential challenge of cooperation.''
''Even though this is inherently a collective problem, there is no specific mechanism in the I.M.F. or G-20 that looks up to the challenge,'' he said Sunday. ''Our aim is to change that by encouraging countries to buy into a stronger set of norms and behaviors on these issues.''
In a speech on Wednesday, Mr. Geithner in essence accused China of setting off a cycle of ''competitive nonappreciation,'' in which countries block their currencies from rising in value to support their exporters -- as Japan, Brazil and South Korea have recently tried. Economists have warned that this type of policy could lead to a destructive currency war.
Other officials have quietly expressed worry that the United States is itself contributing to the currency imbalance: the Federal Reserve has adopted an expansionary monetary policy intended to stimulate the economy, has contributed to the weakening of the dollar against other currencies.
Edwin M. Truman, a former top official at the Fed and the Treasury Department, said that while Europe and Japan want the renminbi to appreciate, ''they don't want the dollar to depreciate along with it.''
Allowing the renminbi to rise would make Chinese exports more expensive and American exports cheaper. That would assist with rebalancing: getting China to spend more and save less and the United States to spend less and save more.
A vital part of the American strategy has been to argue that China would also benefit from letting the renminbi rise.
Doing so, many economists say, would reduce the risk of inflation and asset bubbles, and help reorient growth away from exports and coastal manufacturing areas and toward domestic consumer demand and poor rural regions in need of development. China signed on last year to a G-20 platform for ''strong, sustainable and balanced growth,'' which has become a sort of motto for global the recovery.
But there is little agreement on how to make the motto a reality.
James D. Wolfensohn, a former president of the World Bank, said each side had a point. ''The Chinese have a legitimate case that they have to keep their economy going and that they're not going to let us run their economy for them,'' he said. ''On the other hand, we have a legitimate case that China ought to bear its share of the burden and show some leadership.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Zhu Guangyao, right, the vice finance minister in China, and Dominique Strauss-Kahn of the International Monetary Fund. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MANUEL BALCE CENETA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); DEBTOR NATIONS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); RECESSION (77%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); EXTERNAL DEBT (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); JOB CREATION (73%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%)

PERSON: DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (73%); CHRISTINE LAGARDE (58%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (94%); CANADA (94%); JAPAN (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2010



287 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; CAMPAIGN SPOTLIGHT; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1598 words

HEADLINE: 'Ghost' Brands Come Alive With New Ads

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
It is just a coincidence that as Halloween nears, two ''ghost'' brands are getting their first new campaigns in years.
The brands are the Pert Plus line of hair care products and the Sure line of antiperspirants and deodorants, both sold by the Idelle Labs division of Helen of Troy Ltd. The campaign is composed of television commercials and print advertisements, all created by a New York agency known as the Madison Avenue Consortium.
Idelle is spending an estimated $10 million to $15 million on each of the two campaigns. According to the Kantar Media unit of WPP, there has been no ad spending in major media for either brand so far this year -- none, in fact, since 2007.
That paucity of ad support is typical of ghost brands, called that because they have become ghosts of their former, successful selves as they were overshadowed by newer products or overlooked when their owners changed focus or changed hands. They are still sold, but have usually been banished to the bottom shelves of stores, near the floors. 
Among the wraiths of the supermarket and drug store aisles, in addition to Pert Plus and Sure, are once-familiar household names like Aim, Aqua Velva, Armour, Barbasol, Biz, Breck, Brylcreem, Camay, Close-Up, Comet, Duncan Hines, Fab, Lava, Log Cabin, My-T-Fine, Oxydol, Parkay, Pepsodent, Prell, Schlitz, Spic and Span, Tab and Vitalis.
In many instances, the parents of ghost brands sell them to concentrate attention and resources on larger brands with stronger vital signs. Companies have been formed that specialize in trying to revive those corporate cast-offs, among them the aptly named Phoenix Brands, Prestige Brands and Idelle, which owns, in addition to Pert Plus and Sure, ghostly products like Ammens, Brut, Final Net, Sea Breeze and Vitalis.
The economic woes of the last three years have encouraged some marketers to take another look at faded brands to see if they can be revived or renewed. The idea is that it can be less expensive to stimulate consumer memories of once-famous products, which had been backed with considerable ad budgets, than to spend enormous sums to introduce all-new products.
In fact, that was a reason Helen of Troy acquired Pert Plus and Sure in the spring and added them to the Idelle Labs offerings. The products were bought from Innovative Brands, which acquired them from Procter & Gamble in 2006.
Helen of Troy has another Procter connection: Last year, the company made a deal with Procter to buy the Infusium 23 line of hair care products, which is also now part of the Idelle lineup.
The goal is to determine if ''there is something still within the brand proposition that can resonate with today's consumers,'' says Rick Cutler, director for marketing at Idelle in Danbury, Conn.
The way to do that is to ''dig into the inherent drama still within these brands and reconnect with lapsed users,'' he adds, as well as shoppers who were young when the products were in their heydays.
The checklist is to ''re-establish the brand name,'' Mr. Cutler says, ''link the brand to its benefits and establish personalities for two brands that, frankly, were devoid of personalities for years.''
To be sure, ''there are no guarantees,'' he acknowledges, but if the right criteria can be met ghost brands can be returned to ''real positive growth.''
The drama that Idelle considers to be inherent in both Pert Plus and Sure is their identities as effective, no-nonsense products for busy people that do what they promise with a minimum of bother.
For Pert Plus, it stems from its nature as a two-in-one hair care product -- that is, the shampoo and conditioner are combined in the same bottle.
''I am not going to convince someone who is, for lack of a better descriptor, 'hair-involved' that a two-in-one is going to work for them,'' Mr. Cutler says, but such a product is appealing to a consumer whose attitude is: ''Let me get into the shower and get out of the shower quickly, and still have great hair.''
So the campaign is aimed at the women who buy hair care products for their families, telling them that a down-to-earth, get-it-done product like Pert Plus is appealing to their husbands and useful for their children.
An announcer in a commercial featuring a mother, a father and three children (two boys and a girl) declares Pert Plus is ''for hair that's all plus and no fuss.''
The ''two-in-one shampoo and conditioner cares as it cleans,'' the announcer says as the father and children are seen having fun together, ''to turn any hair into great hair.''
''Pert Plus makes everyone's hair a plus,'' she continues, ''and we're all about accentuating the positives.'' (Somewhere, Johnny Mercer is smiling.)
The spot concludes with this advice: ''Bring out the plus in your hair with Pert Plus.''
Those points are echoed in the text of a print ad, which also offers additional selling points like the product's ability to work ''quickly and easily'' and how it ''rinses away fast.''
These words appear at the bottom of the print ad: ''Find out what all the Plus is about. Go to pertplus.com.''
Likewise, Mr. Cutler says, Sure is bought by consumers who ''just want deodorant to do its job.''
''They don't want to see it, feel it, smell it,'' he adds. ''They just want trusted protection.''
That provides the approach for the campaign for Sure, which carries the theme ''Be 100 percent Sure.''
''Accept nothing less than 100 percent protection,'' an announcer says, declaring that Sure gives ''unstoppable wetness protection and unbeatable odor protection.''
''When you need to go the extra mile, Sure offers unconditional protection you can rely on,'' he says. ''So all day you're superprotected for anything that comes your way.''
That is underscored with the presence of a superhero behind a package of Sure that dominates the commercial. The superhero, wearing a cape, takes flight as the announcer wraps up his spiel.
The print ad also shows a package of Sure throwing a superheroic shadow under the headline ''Be superprotected.'' The text repeats the points made in the commercial and ends, ''Be sure to visit suredeodorant.com.''
Madison Avenue Consortium, which is creating the campaigns, was opened last year by Miriam Quart, who worked with Idelle at a previous agency, CasonNightingale, and produced some ads for Infusium 23 last year.
''Idelle's brands are about strong name and brand equity,'' Ms. Quart says, but they lack a certain something that the ads are intended to provide.
For example, research on Pert Plus indicated that ''people recognize the brand, but didn't understand what it stood for,'' she adds, so the campaign focuses on the no-fuss attributes in a ''straightforward and accessible'' fashion.
''With the economic downturn, people have gone back to basics,'' Ms. Quart says, and Pert Plus ''is trusted, affordable'' and ''a quick solution to good hair.''
''It's a fun, lively, optimistic campaign that's all about the Plus,'' she adds, which is ''a cool double entendre'' because in Pert Plus, ''the Plus is the conditioner.''
The campaign presents Pert Plus to mothers as the hair care brand for the family, Ms. Quart says, because ''mothers want to make sure their families are a great reflection on them.''
The fact the commercial concentrates more on the father and children than the mother is also meant to signal that women who like to buy shampoos and conditioners for themselves, not to be shared with their families, can buy Pert Plus for everyone else in the household -- cutting down on the total number of bottles in the bathrooms.
The two-in-one aspect of Pert Plus also comes in handy now that children ''are showering and bathing more often,'' Ms. Quart says, as they take part in sports and other after-school activities.
The idea that the family in the campaign is somewhat larger than in most ads is no accident, she adds, because ''we do know from data that Pert users usually have a household body count of five-plus.''
For Sure, the ''Be superprotected'' and ''Be 100 percent Sure'' themes are intended to be ''the 'Raise your hand' for today's consumer,'' Ms. Quart says, referring to the brand's longtime slogan when it was owned by Procter, ''Raise your hand if you're Sure.''
''It was a good campaign for the time,'' she adds of ''Raise your hand,'' but it was ''played out'' so there was no thought given to reviving it.
In tests, the new themes received positive responses as ''fun and memorable,'' Ms. Quart says, among both men and women. (There are Sure varieties specifically for each sex, but the campaign is for the unisex versions.)
The direct approach of the campaign reflects what consumers want in an antiperspirant and deodorant, she adds: ''We want it to work. We don't want to stink. We want it to last all day.''
Hmmmmm. Sounds like what agencies and advertisers want from their ads.
And the promise that Sure will make those who use it ''feel invincible'' throughout the day is also evocative of the economy, Ms. Quart says.
''We understand what today's consumer is up against,'' she adds. ''A lot of people are feeling a little beaten down.''
''This brings up your spirits, elevates you to feel you can conquer your day,'' Ms. Quart says, as your antiperspirant and deodorant ''is going to work hard and strong.''
Feeling 'superprotected' and 'invincible' are good words to put out there,'' she adds.
Indeed. They may give consumers a belief they have more than a ghost of a chance against their challenges.
If you like In Advertising, be sure to read the Advertising column that runs Monday through Friday in the Business Day section of The New York Times print edition and on nytimes.com.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (90%); HAIR CARE PRODUCTS (89%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (89%); NEW PRODUCTS (78%); HALLOWEEN (78%); TOILETRIES MFG (77%); BUDGETS (75%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (73%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (71%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (69%)

COMPANY: HELEN OF TROY LTD (84%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (51%)

TICKER: HELE (NASDAQ) (84%); PGP (PAR) (51%); PG (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS325612 POLISH & OTHER SANITATION GOOD MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3634 ELECTRIC HOUSEWARES & FANS (84%); SIC2842 SPECIALTY CLEANING, POLISHING, & SANITATION PREPARATIONS (84%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (51%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (51%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2010



288 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
AFTER KYRGYZSTAN UPRISING,
A Coalition Likely to Form
Supporters of the government that took power after an uprising in April appeared to be on the way to winning seats in a new Parliament, but were likely to be compelled to form a coalition with at least some figures from the previous government, according to preliminary results from an election in Kyrgyzstan. Page A6
IRAN FEARS UNREST AFTER CUTS 
Top police officials in Iran have issued a series of warnings this month against the threat of an overflow of tensions following the cuts in fuel subsidies, which some fear could set off a chain reaction of price increases and economic hardships in a country already stricken by high inflation and widespread unemployment. Page A10
A REGIONAL WIN FOR PUTIN
Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin's ruling party triumphed easily in regional elections in Siberia and elsewhere in Russia, demonstrating that its standing has not suffered, despite several challenging months for the government. Page A6
National
FROM TEA PARTY ADVOCATES,
Anger at Federal Reserve
The Federal Reserve, having weathered criticism of its regulatory failings and interest-rate decisions in the years before the financial crisis, is facing a new source of anger: the Tea Party movement. PAGE A16
FIGHT OVER PROVOCATIVE ART
For weeks now, the bucolic northern Colorado city of Loveland has been bitterly split over a controversial artwork -- and its destruction. The debate has unmasked the divisions between a growing arts community and a conservative town that has taken issue before with provocative images. PAGE A11
Business
ECONOMY SANDBAGS PLANS
To Build Nuclear Reactors
Just a few years ago, the economic prognosis for new nuclear reactors looked bright, with companies reporting plans to build 28 new reactors. The economic slump, which has driven down demand and the price of competing energy sources, and the failure of Congress to pass climate legislation has changed all that, at least for now. PAGE B1
CBS'S PRIME-TIME SUCCESS
Three weeks into a new television season, new shows are collapsing, and crises are appearing all over network prime-time schedules -- except at CBS, which has managed to avoid, on every night, across every hour of prime time, the kind of failure that has visited all of its main competitors. PAGE B1
TWITTER COURTS AD REVENUE
Twitter's hockey-stick growth -- it has exploded to 160 million users, from three million, in the last two years -- is reminiscent of Google and Facebook in their early days. Those Web sites are now must-buys for advertisers online, and the ad industry is watching Twitter closely to see if it continues to follow that path. PAGE B1
A NEW CHILDREN'S CHANNEL
Hasbro and Discovery Communications unveiled a new television brand for children called The Hub. Over time, the two companies hope to prove that there is room for a fourth player alongside Nickelodeon, the Disney Channel and Cartoon Network, the three heavyweights of children's television. PAGE B1
New York
A RAPID-BUS SYSTEM DEBUTS
To Glitches and Grumbles
The city unveiled what had been hailed as the next generation of public transport: a rapid-transit bus system that operates in exclusive traffic lanes and requires passengers to buy tickets from sidewalk kiosks. But riders up and down the route seemed less than thrilled with the new idea. PAGE A17
Arts
BACK WHEN ARTISTS VOTED
For Politics of Order
''Chaos and Classicism: Art in France, Italy, and Germany, 1918-1936,'' at the Guggenheim, is unlikely to draw large crowds, due to its high percentage of unfamiliar names. But the fall exhibition of artwork, from Europe during the rise of fascism, is engrossing: a survey-style piece of investigative history with a bomb ticking away inside. Review by Holland Cotter. PAGE C1
A LOOK AT GOD AND POLITICS
''God in America,'' a three-night, six-hour series beginning Monday on PBS, feels like a freshman survey course: stuffed with facts and dates and figures, and sometimes straining to find a way to tie them together. Review by Mike Hale. PAGE C5
Sports
OLYMPIC HOPEFUL'S DREAM
To Become a U.S. Citizen
The stellar record of the amateur boxer Erick De Leon, who is undefeated in this country for three years in his weight class, should make fighting for the United States in the 2012 Olympics a natural next step. Instead, De Leon's biggest fight is not in the ring, but with the United States immigration system. PAGE D1
MULLING YANKEES' ROTATION
The Yankees have won four straight postseason series without using a fourth starter, and as they prepare for the American League Championship Series, it is natural to ask: Will they try to make it five? PAGE D5
NEVADA'S RUNAWAY OFFENSE
The University of Nevada entered the Top 25 for the first time in more than a half-century this season. But Nevada has been especially noticed for its pistol offense, which was invented by Chris Ault, the team's coach. The offense has spread from Alabama to Indiana, Rutgers to Stanford and San Jose State to Duke. PAGE D7
Op-ed
PAUL KRUGMAN PAGE A21
ROSS DOUTHAT PAGE A21

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (85%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CHILDREN'S PROGRAMMING (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); POLICE FORCES (71%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (70%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (66%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (66%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (64%); CHILDREN (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (60%); INTEREST RATES (52%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (51%); FACEBOOK INC (51%); DISCOVERY COMMUNICATIONS INC (50%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (51%); FB (NASDAQ) (51%); DISCA (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (50%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (50%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); KYRGYZSTAN (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2010



289 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 243 words

HEADLINE: LOOKING AHEAD

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS Data this week includes import prices for September (Wednesday); the producer price index for September, the trade deficit for August, and weekly jobless claims (Thursday); the consumer price index for September, retail sales for September, the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan consumer confidence index for October, and business inventories for August (Friday). 
CORPORATE EARNINGS Companies reporting results include CSX and Intel (Tuesday); JPMorgan Chase (Wednesday); Advanced Micro Devices and Google (Thursday); and Gannett, General Electric and Mattel (Friday).
IN THE UNITED STATES The annual meeting of the National Association for Business Economics takes place in Denver (Monday and Tuesday), with Janet L. Yellen, the vice chairwoman of the Federal Reserve, speaking on Monday. The Federal Reserve will release the minutes of its Sept. 21 meeting (Tuesday). Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, will participate in a discussion about business innovation in Pittsburgh (Wednesday). The Securities and Exchange Commission is scheduled to vote on proposing governance rules for clearinghouses and trading platforms for security-based swaps (Wednesday). And Mr. Bernanke will give a keynote address at a conference sponsored by the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston (Friday).
OVERSEAS The Nobel in economic science will be announced (Monday) and the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries meets in Vienna (Thursday).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); PRODUCER PRICES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); IMPORT PRICES (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (74%); INVENTORIES (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (73%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (72%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (68%); RETAIL SALES (57%); SPONSORSHIP (51%); AWARDS & PRIZES (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (72%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF BOSTON (68%); GOOGLE INC (57%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (57%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (57%); INTEL CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (58%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (54%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (72%); JPM (LSE) (72%); 8634 (TSE) (72%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%); GNE (PAR) (57%); GEC (LSE) (57%); GE (SWX) (57%); GE (NYSE) (57%); AMD (NYSE) (57%); AMD (FRA) (57%); INTC (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (72%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (72%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (72%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (68%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (68%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2010



290 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 970 words

HEADLINE: Shared Concern About China Aligns U.S. and Vietnam

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS

 BODY:
HANOI -- A visit to Vietnam this week by the secretary of defense, Robert M. Gates, is the latest step in a bilateral relationship that is at its warmest since diplomatic ties were established 15 years ago.
A steady progression of careful gestures has eroded the enmities of the Vietnam War, built a basis of increasing trust and turned the two nations' attention, in large part, from issues of the past to the present.
It is the second cabinet-level visit to Vietnam in four months; Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton came in July. Exchanges at this level have become almost routine. 
''I would say that relations are at their highest point in 15 years,'' said Nguyen Manh Hung, director of the Indochina Institute at George Mason University in Virginia. ''We have basically removed the major hurdles of suspicion in military to military relations, and I would expect things to proceed quite fast.''
Mr. Gates was expected to meet with General Phung Quang Thanh, the Vietnamese defense minister, at a gathering of defense chiefs from the 10-member Association of Southeast Asian Nations and partner countries.
The main concern shared by the two nations underscores the shifts in alliances in the 35 years since the war came to an end: Chinese claims in the South China Sea.
It is an issue with some irony. Where the United States sought during the war to contain an expansion of Chinese communism into Vietnam, it is aligned with Vietnam today in concern over an escalation of China's maritime claims.
China was an ally of North Vietnam in its war against the United States in the 1960s and 1970s and is now a partner of a unified Vietnam in an uneasy relationship between Communist nations of vastly different size.
''Vietnam worries about Chinese in the South China Sea and America worries about interference in freedom of navigation,'' Mr. Hung said. ''Because of this, the strategic interests of Vietnam and the United States converge.''
Last week, Vietnam demanded the release of a fishing boat and nine crew members arrested a month ago near disputed islands. China has said that the crew must pay a fine, and Vietnam has asserted that the crew members have been mistreated.
In March, at least one senior China official raised the level of its territorial claim, asserting to two senior White House officials visiting Beijing that the South China Sea was a ''core interest,'' a phrase that placed it on a par with Taiwan and Tibet, its most sensitive territorial interests.
In response, during a visit to Hanoi in July, Mrs. Clinton hardened Washington's stance by saying the United States has a ''national interest'' in freedom of navigation in the area.
In balancing its relations between the two major powers, Vietnam has been at pains to reassure China, the giant on its doorstep, that it would have no alliances, military bases or military coalitions that threaten it.
While Vietnam marked the 15th anniversary of diplomatic ties with the United States this year, it also celebrated a much longer diplomatic relationship of 60 years with China.
Hanoi's warming toward Washington has been slowed by suspicions of American motives and commitment to a Vietnam policy.
Hanoi understands that for Washington, relations with Vietnam have always been part of larger international interests, analysts say, and that they could shift as those interests change.
Once again, as it was during the war, the United States stance toward Vietnam is one piece in a broader China policy.
But step by step, the two former wartime enemies have grown steadily closer. Trade relations were normalized in 2006. Port calls by American Navy ships have become more frequent since the first one in 2003.
''It's a very deliberate pace that's being kept here,'' said Carlyle Thayer, an expert on Vietnam at the Australian Defense Force Academy at the University of New South Wales in Sydney. ''Neither side wants to be used by the other, but both want to advance the relationship.''
Mrs. Clinton took an exuberant tone last month when she said, ''The progress between Vietnam and the United States has been breathtaking.''
Vietnamese officials have been less effusive, but they seem to agree.
''Vietnam and the United States are enjoying an excellent period of bilateral relations,'' the Vietnamese ambassador to the United States, Le Cong Phung, said in remarks quoted by the official Vietnam News Agency last month.
Warming relations continue to be slowed by American concerns over human rights abuses in Vietnam and by Hanoi's suspicion that Washington is using the issue to undermine the communist government.
The Vietnamese often use the phrases ''peaceful evolution'' and the ''color revolutions,'' expressions that refer to its view that the collapse of the Soviet Union and other European communist governments were brought about at least partly by outside support for democracy and human rights.
The competing concerns involving human rights renew themselves in something of a vicious circle. Vietnam's fear of American motives leads to the arrests of dissidents it sees as connected with the West. And those arrests in turn intensify Washington's concerns over human rights abuses.
The two nations' alignment on the issue of the South China Sea illustrates the emergence of a more forward-looking relationship, said Kim Ninh, the country representative in Vietnam for the Asia Foundation, which is based in California.
For the United States, the chief issue from the past continues to be a full accounting for servicemen still missing from the war, though that concern no longer carries the power that it once did.
For Vietnam, the chief remaining postwar issue is a demand for greater United States assistance in addressing the effects of agent orange, a chemical defoliant that was sprayed in parts of the country, causing widespread birth defects.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); FREEDOM OF THE SEAS (86%); VIETNAM WAR (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (65%); ADMIRALTY LAW (65%); FINES & PENALTIES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (88%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HANOI, VIETNAM (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (69%) SOUTH CHINA SEA (93%); PACIFIC OCEAN (91%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (54%) VIET NAM (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (93%); VIETNAM (90%); TIBET (79%); TAIWAN (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2010



291 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 964 words

HEADLINE: Obama Says the G.O.P. Is Beholden to Interests

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

 BODY:
PHILADELPHIA -- With his party facing losses in next month's election, President Obama pressed his argument Sunday that the opposition is trying to steal the election with secret special-interest money, possibly including money from foreign companies.
In a speech to a large rally here and in a new television advertisement, Mr. Obama and the Democrats escalated their efforts to present the Republicans as captive to moneyed interests. But Republicans and their allies fired back, dismissing the assertions as desperate last-minute allegations with no evidence to back them up. 
''You can't let it happen,'' Mr. Obama told thousands of supporters gathered at a school park in a predominantly African-American, working-class neighborhood in northern Philadelphia. ''Don't let them hijack your agenda. The American people deserve to know who's trying to sway their elections, and you can't stand by and let the special interests drown out the voices of the American people.''
Mr. Obama has increasingly turned to the issue of campaign finance to motivate his supporters as the elections grow nearer and the polls remain bad for Democrats. His party is outmatched in advertising sponsored by groups in part because of a Supreme Court decision issued earlier this year which lifted restrictions on independent campaign expenditures by corporations and unions. Mr. Obama has suggested that the sponsors of campaign advertising have sinister motivations.
''You don't know,'' he said here. ''It could be the oil industry, it could be the insurance industry, it could even be foreign-owned corporations. You don't know because they don't have to disclose. Now that's not just a threat to Democrats, that's a threat to our democracy.''
Still, in saying it ''could'' be foreign corporations, Mr. Obama softened his language from last week after the original assertion was disputed, and was more equivocal than a new Democratic National Committee advertisement that asserts the involvement of overseas money more directly. The advertisement attacks the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and Karl Rove and Ed Gillespie, two former aides to President George W. Bush who have helped groups supporting Republican candidates.
The commercial calls Mr. Rove and Mr. Gillespie ''Bush cronies'' and says the chamber ''shills for big business,'' then shows a woman having her purse stolen by a mugger in a parking garage. ''They're stealing our democracy, spending millions from secret donors to elect Republicans to do their bidding in Congress,'' the narrator intones. ''It appears they've even taken secret foreign money to influence our elections.''
The Democrats have offered no evidence that the chamber is using foreign money to influence the elections. The chamber has overseas affiliates that pay dues to the main organization but says it has a process to segregate those funds from any used for electioneering.
''The D.N.C. is going to exhaust itself trying so hard to change the political conversation,'' Thomas J. Collamore, the chamber's senior vice president of communications and strategy, said in a statement. ''Its ad attacking the U.S. Chamber is a blatant attempt to avoid a serious discussion of Americans' top priority -- creating jobs and growing the economy. The ad is ridiculous and false.''
David Axelrod, the president's senior adviser, was asked Sunday by Bob Schieffer on ''Face the Nation'' on CBS if he had any evidence that the chamber was using secret foreign funds to influence the election.
''Well, do you have any evidence that it's not, Bob?'' Mr. Axelrod replied. ''The fact is that the chamber has asserted that, but they won't release any information about where their campaign money is coming from. And that's at the core of the problem here.''
The Democratic committee's spokesman, Hari Sevugan, likewise offered no evidence and suggested it was up to the chamber to disprove the assertions. ''Serious questions have been raised,'' he said in an e-mail. ''If they want to clear this up, they can open up their books.''
The chamber is hardly the only organization playing a role in the campaign that has international affiliations and gets money from foreign institutions. Among others are groups on the political left like the A.F.L.-C.I.O. and the Sierra Club. The law requires them to isolate foreign money from any domestic political activity.
Mr. Rove and Mr. Gillespie shot back at the Democrats in separate Sunday television appearances.
''Have these people no shame?'' Mr. Rove said on ''Fox News Sunday.'' ''Does the president of the United States have such little regard for the office that he holds that he goes out there and makes these kind of baseless charges against his political enemies? This is just beyond the pale. How dare the president do this?''
The president's rally here was the second of four scheduled before the Nov. 2 elections as he attempts to reignite the sort of excitement that lifted him during the 2008 presidential campaign. Citing a city official, the Democratic committee said 18,500 people turned out on a warm, cloudless day to hear the president, Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., a host of Pennsylvania Democrats and the Roots, a hip-hop band.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 15, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Monday about a campaign speech by President Obama in which he criticized political spending by special interest groups misstated the effect of a recent Supreme Court decision on such spending. The decision, in the Citizens United case, lifted restrictions on independent campaign expenditures by corporations and unions. It did not change existing campaign-finance disclosure requirements.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''Don't let them hijack your agenda,'' President Obama told supporters in Philadelphia at the second of four rallies planned. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); SPONSORSHIP (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); EVIDENCE (89%); ROBBERY (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (74%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (72%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (71%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (71%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (69%); INSURANCE (64%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (52%); APPEALS (51%); SUPREME COURTS (51%)

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (52%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); KARL ROVE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2010



292 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1386 words

HEADLINE: Bloomberg Data Service To Cover Washington

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
Ambition and confidence have never been in short supply at Bloomberg L.P.
Chapter 4 of Michael R. Bloomberg's autobiography, the part in which he describes conceiving the idea for Bloomberg News in the late 1980s, is titled ''We Can Do That: Elementary Journalism, Not Rocket Science.''
Now Bloomberg is taking that entrepreneurial ethos and making an aggressive push into the Washington media terrain long dominated by trade publications and news outlets like Congressional Quarterly and National Journal, which charge high subscription fees to provide lobbyists and Capitol Hill insiders with information on the nuts-and-bolts of lawmaking and government regulation.
In the same way that Bloomberg terminals have become a ubiquitous presence on the desks of Wall Street traders, Bloomberg executives aim to make their new service an indispensable tool for lobbyists, Capitol Hill staff members and government contractors. 
The service, called Bloomberg Government, is based on the same guiding principle that spawned the original Bloomberg financial data machine: people need an aggregator and filter for information, and they will pay a lot of money for that convenience.
Bloomberg Government is an information behemoth -- a news aggregator, government contract database, Congressional staff directory and source for policy research and analysis all in one Web site.
Unlike the Bloomberg financial information service, Bloomberg Government will not require separate hardware to operate. For $5,700 a year for each user (a discount will be available for government users), subscribers will be able to gain access to the system through their personal computers.
The idea for the service was born in part from what Bloomberg executives saw as an opening in the Washington media market. As numerous Web sites, blogs and even traditional policy-focused outlets like National Journal have ramped up their coverage of political news, reporting on the less glamorous aspects -- how the legislative sausage is made -- has become less of a priority for many news organizations.
''There has been a bloom in news around political reporting,'' said Kevin Sheekey, chairman of Bloomberg Government. ''There's been at the same time a sort of hidden but very sharp decline in coverage of government apart from politics, in terms of what government is doing and regulating, and the impact that will have on segments of the economy. That part of press coverage of our society has probably dropped off tenfold. That's where Bloomberg is stepping in.''
Many news organizations are coy about their ambitions, preferring to let their journalism speak for itself and content to let others speculate about what designs they have on the future. Not Bloomberg. And Bloomberg Government is an unmistakable signal that the company is positioning itself to be not only a major media player in Washington, but the dominant one.
''Our aspiration is to be the most influential news organization in the world,'' said Mike Riley, the managing editor of Bloomberg Government in Washington. ''I think Bloomberg sees a great opportunity here, and they are wisely investing on the front end,'' he added, declining to say exactly how much the company has spent building the service over the last nine months. ''Suffice it to say, it's not inexpensive.''
Bloomberg's existing Washington bureau employs 175 journalists apart from the nearly 40 journalists and analysts Mr. Riley has hired so far for Bloomberg Government. He plans to hire 60 more by the end of the year, half of them journalists, half policy experts like trained economists.
By the end of 2011, Bloomberg Government expects to have 150 journalists and analysts on staff. Counting nonjournalists, plans call for Bloomberg Government to expand to 300, which would make the company's Washington office the largest for a news organization not based in the capital.
Bloomberg's investment in the staff alone will be in the area of $30 million a year.
If Bloomberg Government is a success, the company would like to replicate the model on the state level, providing the same kind of information and analysis about state contracts and legislation -- a vast potential market that many local news organizations have retreated from in recent years.
Bloomberg has experienced near-uninterrupted growth since its namesake founded the company after being fired from Salomon Brothers in 1981. Its revenue -- 85 percent of which comes from sales of its signature financial news and data terminals -- was $6.3 billion last year. This year the company expects to hit the $7 billion mark, well on its way to hitting a goal of $10 billion in revenue by 2014, a feat that would make it larger than Yahoo. It now employs 2,400 people in its various news divisions across the world.
Bloomberg has moved into other areas of media -- some profitable, some not. Its television network and the newly acquired BusinessWeek, which it bought from McGraw-Hill last year. Called Bloomberg Businessweek, terminal sales dipped slightly in 2009 to 279,000 from 287,000 the year before as financial services companies tightened their belts. The average Bloomberg terminal subscriber pays $20,000 a year, the company said.
An enterprise like Bloomberg Government, with its hefty subscription fees, can help the company grow and keep it better insulated against downturns in the financial market, to which its terminal business is susceptible. In explaining why they decided to start Bloomberg Government, executives are quick to point out that even during the recession, the federal budget and spending by businesses to lobby in Washington rose continuously.
Bloomberg Government's creators have tried to make the service a one-stop-shopping experience for any piece of data that exists about the federal government and the corporations that work on its behalf.
Separate pages have been created for all members of Congress. With the click of a mouse, users can learn just about any piece of information about their representative or senator: top political contributors and amounts donated, legislation sponsored, even spouses' names. E-mail addresses for the staffs of each Congressional office -- from chief of staff to scheduler -- are also available and updated regularly by Bloomberg contractors who call Congressional offices every few weeks to double-check the information.
Maps of all Congressional districts are also available, marked with each hospital and corporate headquarters in the area. Bloomberg eventually plans to list the lobbyists who represent those institutions and how to reach them.
Information in similarly fine detail is available about corporations: how much money they have donated to political candidates, what government contracts they have been awarded, who the leading corporate officers are and how to contact them.
This mine of data will be available alongside the work that Bloomberg writers will produce. Their newsroom, which will be in a space on K Street where Google's offices formerly were, will operate as a hybrid research firm-wire service, with Ph.D.-level analysts being paired with journalists to produce reports.
Jenn Higgins, a principal at the Capitol Health Group, a boutique health care lobbying firm in Washington, has been a tester for the service since July. She said she has already canceled subscriptions to other Washington publications.
If Bloomberg Government catches on, she said, half in jest, it could make her job as a lobbyist obsolete. ''If I live outside Washington, this is a pretty big universe of information I pay a lobbyist to know,'' she said. ''I guess I think at the end of the day a computer can't take someone to Capitol Hill to meet a member of Congress. Until that happens, I think I'll be O.K.''

CORRECTION-DATE: October 12, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: Because of an editing error, an article on Monday about Bloomberg L.P.'s plans to expand into Washington to cover lawmaking and government regulation misstated the status of BusinessWeek, the magazine that Bloomberg bought last year from McGraw-Hill. Bloomberg added its name to the magazine, which is now known as Bloomberg Businessweek. It did not merge BusinessWeek with its own magazine, Bloomberg Markets, which continues as a separate publication.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Kevin Sheekey is chairman of the service, a resource for information on government. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
 Mike Riley, center, managing editor of Bloomberg Government, in a huddle to plan the day. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ROSENBAUM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOURNALISM (89%); NEWS REPORTING (89%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (74%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (66%)

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (95%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (95%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (95%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2010



293 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1191 words

HEADLINE: Given Targets, A Candidate Holds His Fire

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI

 BODY:
NEW CASTLE, Del. -- When Chris Coons was asked last week about a new television commercial in which his rival in this state's Senate race, Christine O'Donnell, assured voters that she was not a witch, his smile was controlled and very, very brief.
''That's got to be one of the more memorable ways to introduce oneself,'' Mr. Coons said. Then he quickly steered the discussion toward the economy.
In a subsequent interview here, when Ms. O'Donnell's past denunciation of masturbation came up, he said only this: ''I have 11-year-old twin boys, and this campaign has allowed us to accelerate awkward conversations.''
Ms. O'Donnell, whose warm embrace by the Tea Party helped her stage a surprising Republican primary upset, has given Mr. Coons, her Democratic opponent, plenty to pounce on. What he does for the most part is avoid it, on the apparent theory that she generates ample ridicule without any extra from him. 
In fact, his campaign frames her in a strikingly deadpan manner. On his Web site recently, the opening image was not of him but of her, with these neutral words: ''Meet our G.O.P. opponent.'' There was no further commentary, and the picture -- shiny hair, sparkling eyes -- was decidedly flattering. For the Coons campaign, the mere fact of her was fodder enough.
This Senate race has drawn enormous scrutiny, and will be watched with special interest this week as the candidates have their first televised debate Wednesday and President Obama arrives Friday to help Mr. Coons raise money.
But the coverage, focused on Ms. O'Donnell, has mostly overlooked the unlikely, peculiar position her foe is in.
At the start of the year, Mr. Coons, the New Castle County executive, was not even supposed to be on the ballot. Now he is an utterly accidental (and exceedingly cautious) front-runner figuring out how to take on someone who is in many ways his near opposite.
She: awash in disputes about what her educational credentials are and whether she has exaggerated them. He: a double major in political science and chemistry at Amherst College with graduate degrees from both the law and divinity schools at Yale University.
She: cheerleader pretty. He: science-club-president plain.
She: accused of using campaign donations for rent. He: affluent enough to have pumped $250,000 of his own money into his bid.
In a second television commercial Ms. O'Donnell released last week, she told voters: ''I didn't go to Yale. I didn't inherit millions.''
And while she has for many years thrust herself before TV cameras, he still seems unaccustomed to them.
Rachel Maddow, the MSNBC talk show host, showed up with her crew for a Coons event last week, attaching a microphone to him for much of it. When a technician bent down to change the battery pack on Mr. Coons's belt, he tensed up, fidgeted and, in an impatient voice, asked what the problem was.
The technician, John Blackman, later observed: ''He's not used to being the talent. That's O.K. I'm here to break him in.''
Until January it was assumed that the state attorney general, Joseph R. Biden III, the vice president's son, would run, and Mr. Coons could not foresee any political promotions on the near horizon. He said he figured he would maybe work at some point for Gov. Jack Markell, whom he assured, ''I don't have to be the top guy.'' Then Mr. Biden begged off the race, and Democrats gave the slot to Mr. Coons.
His campaign was seen by many of them as ''a suicide mission,'' in the words of Jim Jordan, a veteran Democratic strategist. But that thinking presumed that his opponent would be Representative Michael N. Castle, a popular Republican moderate.
On the night the primary returns came in, Delaware's senior senator, Thomas R. Carper, called Mr. Coons to relay two thoughts. One was that his life was about to change drastically. The other, Mr. Carper said, was that he should be sure to speak kindly about Mr. Castle, whose centrist supporters were now up for grabs.
Two recent polls, by Fairleigh Dickinson University and the University of Delaware, show Mr. Coons ahead of Ms. O'Donnell by more than 15 points.
Mr. Coons, 47, grew up in a Wilmington suburb. Although his family endured some financial hardships around the time his parents divorced in his early teens, he described his childhood as ''fairly sheltered, privileged'' in a personal essay in the Amherst student newspaper.
His mother married Robert Gore, whose family founded W. L. Gore & Associates, makers of Gore-Tex fabric, and Mr. Coons went to high school at Tower Hill, a prestigious private academy where he ran cross-country, wrestled and ''read a lot of books,'' said Charles Chesnut, a close friend since elementary school. J. R. R. Tolkien was a favorite author.
In his junior year at Amherst, when he went abroad to study, his destination was not Western Europe but East Africa: Nairobi, Kenya, to be exact. And he returned with newly liberal political beliefs, as he wrote in that essay, which has drawn fire from Republicans because of its title: ''Chris Coons, the Making of a Bearded Marxist.''
Mr. Coons has said repeatedly that the title was humorous hyperbole. And while he writes in the essay that Kenya forced him to examine whether his ''beliefs in the miracle of free enterprise and the boundless opportunities to be had in America might be largely untrue,'' he goes on to say, ''I have returned to loving America, but in the way of one who has realized its faults.''
A devout Presbyterian, he flirted with the idea of becoming a minister and has long been active in humanitarian work, both personally and professionally. He rounded up $400,000 in contributions from family members to start the Delaware chapter of the ''I Have a Dream'' Foundation, and, after law school, took a job in New York City with the foundation, which supports higher education for children in low-income communities.
In the mid-1990s, he moved back to Delaware; married (he and his wife now have three children); and went to work as a lawyer for the Gore corporation, a position he kept while serving in the part-time, elected position of president of the New Castle County Council from 2000 to 2004. In late 2004 he was elected to the full-time post of executive of the county, which includes Wilmington and is by far Delaware's most populous, with about 535,000 of the state's roughly 885,000 residents.
He cut spending while raising taxes three times and calls himself ''a fiscal conservative.'' He has said that he would have voted against the Troubled Asset Relief Program bank bailouts but in favor of the health care overhaul. He speaks elegantly and confidently on a broad range of issues, but he shows flashes of irritation with aspects of campaigning.
In the interview, he groused that in talking with a local reporter about time spent in South Africa in the 1980s, he had to provide an education on apartheid. ''Let the record not reflect any disrespect'' for local journalists, he added.
As a photographer zoomed in, he winced. ''I'm just not used to people taking 100 pictures of me while I'm trying to be thoughtful,'' he said. ''I've had six months of no one paying any attention to my campaign whatsoever.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Chris Coons, the Democratic Senate candidate in Delaware, has run an understated campaign. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATT ROTH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (89%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICS (78%); FUNDRAISING (74%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (72%); COUNTIES (72%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (72%); POLITICAL DEBATES (69%); US PRESIDENTS (64%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (60%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (55%)

PERSON: CHRIS COONS (90%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DELAWARE, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2010



294 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: Hunting One Language, Stumbling Upon Another

BYLINE: By JOHN NOBLE WILFORD

 BODY:
Two years ago, a team of linguists plunged into the remote hill country of northeastern India to study little-known languages, many of them unwritten and in danger of falling out of use.
On average, every two weeks one of the world's recorded 7,000 languages becomes extinct, and the expedition was seeking to document and help preserve the endangered ones in these isolated villages.
At a rushing mountain river, the linguists crossed on a bamboo raft and entered the tiny village of Kichang. They expected to hear the people speaking Aka, a fairly common tongue in that district. Instead, they heard a language, the linguists said, that sounded as different from Aka as English does from Japanese. 
After further investigation, leaders of the research announced last week the discovery of a ''hidden'' language, known locally as Koro, completely new to the world outside these rural communities. While the number of spoken languages continues to decline, at least one new one has been added to the inventory, though Koro too is on the brink of extinction.
''We noticed it instantly'' as a distinct and unfamiliar language, said Gregory Anderson, director of the Living Tongues Institute for Endangered Languages in Salem, Ore.
Dr. Anderson and K. David Harrison, a linguist at Swarthmore College, were leaders of the expedition, part of the Enduring Voices Project of the National Geographic Society. Another member of the group was Ganash Murmu, a linguist at Ranchi University in India. A scientific paper will be published by the journal Indian Linguistics.
When the three researchers reached Kichang, they went door to door asking people to speak their native tongue -- not a strenuous undertaking in a village of only four bamboo houses set on stilts. The people live by raising pigs and growing oranges, rice and barley. They share a subsistence economy and a culture with others in the region who speak Aka, or Miji, another somewhat common language.
On the veranda at one house, the linguists heard a young woman named Kachim telling her life story in Koro. She was sold as a child bride, was unhappy in her adopted village and had to overcome hardships before eventually making peace with her new life.
Listening, the researchers at first suspected Koro to be a dialect of Aka, but its words, syntax and sounds were entirely different. Few words in Koro were the same as in Aka: mountain in Aka is ''phu,'' but ''nggo'' in Koro; pig in Aka is ''vo,'' but in Koro ''lele.'' The two languages share only 9 percent of their vocabulary.
The linguists recorded Kachim's narrative in Koro, and an Indian television crew had her repeat it in Hindi. This not only enabled the researchers to understand her story and her language, but called attention to the cultural pressures threatening the survival of such languages, up against national languages dominant in schools, commerce and mass media.
In ''The Last Speakers: The Quest to Save the World's Most Endangered Languages,'' published last month by National Geographic Books, Dr. Harrison noted that Koro speakers ''are thoroughly mixed in with other local peoples and number perhaps no more than 800.''
Moreover, linguists are not sure how Koro has survived this long as a viable language. Dr. Harrison wrote: ''The Koro do not dominate a single village or even an extended family. This leads to curious speech patterns not commonly found in a stable state elsewhere.''
By contrast, the Aka people number about 10,000 living in close relations with Koro speakers in a district of the state of Arunachal Pradesh, where at least 120 languages are spoken. Dr. Anderson said the coexistence of separate languages between two integrated groups that do not acknowledge an ethnic difference between them is highly unusual.
As Dr. Harrison and Dr. Anderson expanded their research, comparing Koro with several hundred languages, they determined that it belonged to the Tibeto-Burman language family, which includes 400 tongues related to widely used Tibetan and Burmese. But Koro had never been recognized in any surveys of the approximately 150 languages spoken in India.
The effort to identify ''hot spots of threatened languages,'' the linguists said, is critical in making decisions to preserve and enlarge the use of such tongues, which are repositories of a people's history and culture.
In the case of Koro speakers, Dr. Harrison wrote in his book, ''even though they seem to be gradually giving up their language, it remains the most powerful trait that identifies them as a distinct people.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: DOCUMENTING AND PRESERVING: A Koro-speaking woman and her baby in Kichang village in Arunachal Pradesh, India. At top, Gregory Anderson interviewed Kachim, a Koro speaker, for a National Geographic project. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRIS RAINIER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (91%); LINGUISTICS (90%); ANCIENT & EXTINCT LANGUAGES (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); MAMMALS (77%); GEOGRAPHY (73%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (73%); HOG & PIG FARMING (62%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC SOCIETY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SALEM, OR, USA (76%) NORTHEAST INDIA (92%); OREGON, USA (79%); ARUNACHAL PRADESH, INDIA (58%) INDIA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2010



295 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: Testing the Limits Of Loose Money

BYLINE: By IAN CAMPBELL and ROB COX

 BODY:
Sound monetary policy begins at home. The prime goal of the Federal Reserve is to nurture a healthy national economy. But it would be naive to ignore the influence that Fed policy has on markets around the globe. And at present the Fed risks blowing global bubbles, with potentially damaging effects.
The bubble blowing begins with beliefs about the Fed's thinking. In the last few weeks the understanding has become that the Fed favors a second round of quantitative easing. The impacts have been many: a sharp fall in the dollar against the euro, yen and many emerging market currencies; appreciating bonds and equities in both the developed world and emerging markets; a record nominal gold price; and a jump in commodity prices. 
Many of these effects might be deemed desirable. A weak dollar favors American exports. Commodity price inflation helps the export earnings in emerging markets and is more conducive to global recovery than tumbling prices. And buoyant asset markets can certainly be judged more helpful than collapsing ones. But the financial moves risk becoming excessive. The West is ailing in part because stock, then property bubbles burst. It would be unfortunate if new bubbles were conjured in emerging economies.
Emerging market governments are conscious of the risks. That is why many may follow Brazil's lead and impose capital controls. Currencies that soar when the dollar and renminbi remain weak can mean export markets are lost. Medium-term damage may be done by short-lived bubbles. More countries may consider emulating China and fixing their exchange rate. That would be unfortunate.
There's also an inflation risk from commodity prices. Already India is plagued by food price inflation. And if commodity prices keep spiraling, Western economies, too, may find consumer spending is harmed by an excess of inflation rather than lack of it.
The Fed is testing the limits of loose money. It may fear that the impact of more quantitative easing will be limited. But the fallout for the global financial system risks being big -- and unhelpful. Janet Yellen, one of the Fed's newest governors, said as much in a speech Monday. Hopefully her colleagues, too, can keep the global picture in mind.
Fortune's Links
After a round of golf with his Titleist clubs, a guy pops into the clubhouse for a Maker's Mark neat before rinsing off under a Moen showerhead. That's about the closest Fortune Brands comes to synergies. No wonder the conglomerate makes such a tempting target for an activist investor.
Shareholders won't be alone rooting for Bill Ackman, whose Pershing Square Capital Management hedge fund revealed an 11 percent stake last week, to break Fortune up. Diageo, the big alcohol company, may one day toast him. The company has long wanted a major bourbon brand. Fortune has two: Maker's Mark and Jim Beam.
Hypothetical examples aside, Fortune's three main divisions -- spirits, golf equipment and home products -- don't hang together naturally. And there are potentially better, more motivated owners for them. But drinks, accounting for some two-thirds of Fortune's profit, deserves the primary focus.
The group -- which also sells Hornitos tequila, Courvoisier Cognac and Canadian Club whisky -- is expected to generate earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, a business measure known as Ebitda, of $635 million this year, according to Longbow Research. At 15 times -- less than the 20 times Pernod Ricard paid for Sweden's Absolut vodka -- Diageo's price tag could come to about $9.5 billion.
Subtract that from Fortune's enterprise value of $12 billion (an $8.4 billion market cap plus $3.6 billion of debt) and the remaining two divisions would be trading at around four times Ebitda, as estimated by Longbow. Citigroup notes that the sporting goods maker Adidas and home products manufacturers like Masco fetch valuations of eight to nine times Ebitda.
Diageo would scramble to pay a top-shelf price for a portfolio that includes some less attractive brands, a few in categories it already dominates. But a handful of smaller players like Gruppo Campari have shown an interest in what insiders call ''tail brands.'' That would allow Diageo to finance part of a deal with divestitures.
It's too soon to say for sure whether Mr. Ackman wants to carve up Fortune. But with a thirsty buyer waiting, and a corporate strategy best exemplified by a tipsy golfer in need of a shower, the odds are good.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bill Ackman of the Pershing Square Capital Management hedge fund. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JONATHAN FICKIES/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMERGING MARKETS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); METALS MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); INFLATION (89%); EXPORT TRADE (88%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); EURO (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (73%); GOLF (71%); EXCHANGE RATES (70%); BONDS (70%); FOOD PRICES (69%); SHAREHOLDERS (68%); DISTILLED LIQUORS (61%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: BEAM INC (52%); DIAGEO PLC (50%)

TICKER: BEAM (NYSE) (52%); DGE (PAR) (50%); DGE (LSE) (50%); DEO (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551114 CORPORATE, SUBSIDIARY & REGIONAL MANAGING OFFICES (52%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); NAICS339920 SPORTING & ATHLETIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS337110 WOOD KITCHEN CABINET & COUNTERTOP MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (52%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (50%); SIC2085 DISTILLED & BLENDED LIQUORS (50%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (79%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2010



296 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 872 words

HEADLINE: Vaccine Case To Be Heard By Justices

BYLINE: By BARRY MEIER

 BODY:
The safety of vaccines is at the heart of a case expected to be heard on Tuesday by the United States Supreme Court, one that could have implications for hundreds of lawsuits that contend there is a link between vaccines and autism.
At issue is whether a no-fault system established by Congress about 25 years ago to compensate children and others injured by commonly used vaccines should protect manufacturers from virtually all product liability lawsuits. The law was an effort to strike a balance between the need to provide care for those injured by vaccines, some of them severely, and the need to protect manufacturers from undue litigation. 
Under the 1986 National Childhood Vaccine Injury Act, such claims typically proceed through an alternative legal system known as ''vaccine court.'' Under that system, a person is compensated if their injury is among those officially recognized as caused by a vaccine. That person, or their parents, can choose to reject that award and sue the vaccine's manufacturer, but they then face severe legal hurdles created by law to deter such actions.
The case before the Supreme Court is not related to autism. But the biggest effect of the court's ruling, lawyers said, will be on hundreds of pending lawsuits that contend a link exists between childhood vaccines and autism. Repeated scientific studies have found no such connection.
Also, in several test case rulings over the last two years, administrative judges in vaccine court have held that autism-related cases did not qualify for compensation. During the last decade, about 5,800 of the 7,900 claims filed in vaccine court, or about 75 percent, have been autism-related, federal data show.
Federal data shows that $154 million was paid in fiscal 2010 to 154 claimants involved in vaccine court proceedings. That figure was significantly higher than in preceding years and reflected several unusually high awards, officials involved in the program said.
In the five preceding fiscal years, an average of $68 million in compensation was paid out on an annual basis, federal data indicates. A compensation fund is financed by an excise tax on vaccinations.
The case to be heard on Tuesday involves an 18-year-old woman, Hannah Bruesewitz, who suffered seizures when she was 6 months old and subsequently suffered developmental problems, her parents say, after receiving a type of D.T.P. vaccine that is no longer sold. The D.T.P. vaccine protects against three potentially deadly childhood diseases: diphtheria; pertussis, which is also known as whooping cough; and tetanus.
Ms. Bruesewitz's parents have contended in court papers that the vaccine's manufacturer, which is now a part of Pfizer, knew at the time that their daughter was immunized that there was a safer version of the D.T.P. vaccine but did not produce it. The company rejected that contention
Initially, Ms. Bruesewitz's parents brought a claim on her behalf to the vaccine court, but the severe injuries that she reportedly suffered were removed from the list of those that qualified for compensation a month before the case was heard. An administrative judge in vaccine court subsequently rejected her claim, so her parents filed a product liability lawsuit against Wyeth, a Pfizer unit that had acquired the vaccine's manufacturer, Lederle Laboratories.
Lower court judges have ruled that her claims are barred by the federal Vaccine Act. As a result, Ms. Bruesewitz, who lives with her family in Pittsburgh and requires specialized care, has not received any compensation, her father, Russell Bruesewitz, said in a telephone interview.
''The cost of her care is an ongoing burden,'' Mr. Bruesewitz said.
The Supreme Court review revolves around the narrow question of whether Congress in passing the Vaccine Act intended to bar lawsuits against vaccine manufacturers based on so-called design defect claims. A vaccine design defect claim essentially asserts that the manufacturer should have sold a different vaccine, which plaintiffs say would have been safer than the one used.
Those filing briefs arguing that Congress intended to permit such lawsuits include the American Association for Justice, a plaintiffs' lawyers group, and the National Vaccine Information Center, an advocacy group.
Those filing briefs arguing that Congress intended to bar them include the solicitor general of the United States, the Chamber of Commerce and several professional medical groups, including the American Academy of Pediatrics.
James M. Beck, a lawyer in Philadelphia who defends makers of drugs and medical devices, said in a phone interview that a ruling in favor of the Bruesewitzes would allow hundreds of lawsuits asserting a link between vaccines and autism to go forward.
''If these cases go forward, it will make it economically unfeasible for anyone to make vaccines in this country,'' said Mr. Beck.
Mr. Bruesewitz said that he and his wife were not opposed to vaccination. Instead, he said they pressed his daughter's claim because he thought that vaccine producers needed to face the threat of litigation to produce safer medications.
''What we want and are concerned about is to make sure that the safety of vaccines in this country is constantly enhanced,'' Mr. Bruesewitz said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Hannah Bruesewitz suffered harm from a vaccination as an infant, her parents say. (B1)
 Robie and Russell Bruesewitz say Hannah has neurological problems related to a vaccine. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JEFF SWENSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VACCINES (93%); LITIGATION (92%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); AUTISM (89%); DRUG SAFETY (89%); BIOLOGICS MFG (89%); WHOOPING COUGH (89%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); PHARMACEUTICAL DRUG & DEVICES LITIGATION (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); BUSINESS TORTS (77%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (76%); LAWYERS (75%); PRODUCT LIABILITY (73%); AGENCY ADJUDICATION (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (60%)

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (90%)

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (58%); PFEB (BRU) (58%); PFE (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (58%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (58%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2010



297 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 724 words

PERSON: Maurice Allais 

HEADLINE: Maurice Allais, Nobel Winner, Dies at 99

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
Maurice Allais, who won the Nobel in economic science in 1988 for his influential insights into markets, risk, interest rates and myriad other economic phenomena, died Saturday at his home near Paris. He was 99.
The French government announced his death.
Dr. Allais, the first Frenchman to win the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Science, stood out for both the quality of his original thinking and how little it was noticed outside France. 
The lack of attention can be explained by the fact that little of his work was translated into English. In part this was his own doing: until late in his career he was reluctant to write in English, by far the preferred language of the economics profession.
His work on the theory of markets was carried out at the same time as similar work by the American economist Paul Samuelson and the British economist John Hicks, both of whom won Nobels in the 1970s. His mathematical proof that classic markets function as efficiently as Adam Smith had theorized provided the groundwork for his pupil Gerard Debreu to win a Nobel in 1983.
Dr. Allais (pronounced al-LAY) discovered what came to be called the ''golden rule'' of economic growth: real income is accumulated most efficiently when the interest rate is equal to the growth rate of the economy. This concept presaged work by Edmund Phelps and Robert Solow, both of whom won Nobels, as well as the ascension of the monetary theories of Milton Friedman.
Dr. Samuelson in 1958 independently, and unknowingly, recreated the research that Dr. Allais did a decade earlier on how to construct economic models that span generations. Dr. Samuelson once said that had the early works of Dr. Allais been available in English, ''a generation of economic theory would have taken a different course.''
Dr. Allais wrote more than 1,000 articles and three dozen books, all crammed with complex mathematical formulas. But he also found time to advise the French government on economic issues: his analyses of monopolies was used by the government to set prices for the railways, utilities and mines it owned after World War II.
Maurice Felix Charles Allais was born in Paris on May 31, 1911, to parents who owned a small cheese shop. His father died in a German prison camp during World War I, and he was raised by his mother on the edge of poverty. A mathematics teacher persuaded him to study science rather than history.
He excelled at top schools and universities, studying both engineering and economics. He witnessed the devastation of the Depression on a trip to the United States in the 1930s, later referring to the inspiration provided by ''a graveyard of factories.''
''I needed to know why,'' he wrote of the experience. ''My motivation was an idea of being able to improve the conditions of life, to try to find a remedy to many of the problems facing the world. That's what led me into economics. I saw it as a way of helping people.''
Dr. Allais earned his doctorate from the University of Paris in 1949. He had already worked as a top bureaucrat in France's national mines administration, served in the French army and written his two most influential books, ''In Quest of an Economic Discipline'' (1943) and ''Economy and Interest'' (1947).
In 1953, he came up with a new way of thinking about economic decision-making by providing convincing mathematical proof that people often put emotional considerations first. His theory, overturning classical economic thought, came to be called the Allais paradox.
Dr. Allais's wife, the former Jacqueline Bouteloup, died in 2003. He is survived by a daughter.
Dr. Allais's hobby of experimental physics was as intellectually challenging as his profession. He conducted well-regarded experiments with pendulums on gravity and magnetism, the results of which he and some other scientists thought contradicted the theory of relativity. Most people considered them inconclusive.
He also enjoyed commenting on current events, often questioning economic orthodoxy. For example, he thought protectionism, derided by free-market purists, could be justified as a means for countries to protect themselves from the pressures of globalization. And a remark he made about Wall Street in an interview with The Los Angeles Times in 1989 has been echoed by many others since, particularly in recent times. He called it ''a veritable casino.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Maurice Allais (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); AWARDS & PRIZES (95%); NOBEL PRIZES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); MATHEMATICS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (67%); WORLD WAR II (60%); WORLD WAR I (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (88%) UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (91%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2010



298 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 439 words

HEADLINE: Markets Tread Water With Eye on Key Reports

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The stock market was flat Monday as traders waited for a week of reports that would give them a better view of where the economy was headed.
The Dow Jones industrial average remained in a 52-point range throughout the day, ending 10 points above the 11,000 level. 
Bond trading was closed for Columbus Day.
Traders have been pushing the stock market higher over the last two weeks, expecting that the Federal Reserve will act in the coming weeks to stimulate the economy and drive interest rates lower. If the Fed announces an expansion of its bond-buying program at its next meeting in early November, traders assume that investors will resume buying stocks because low interest rates will make bonds less appealing.
Tom Samuels, managing partner at Palantir Capital Management, said the stock market had welcomed disappointing reports in recent days because that added to expectations that the Fed would act soon.
''The market is trying to convince itself that good news is good news and bad news is good news,'' Mr. Samuels said.
The Dow has risen five of the last six weeks and is now less than 2 percent from its highest level of the year, which it touched in late April.
Interest rates have also been plummeting in anticipation of action by the Fed.
''The 10-year rate is going to make stocks look cheaper and cheaper compared to bonds,'' said Bob Phillips, managing partner at the Spectrum Management Group. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note is often used to set interest rates on loans. It was at 2.39 percent Friday, near its lowest level since January 2009.
Traders will hear major economic reports at the end of the week, including data on inflation, retail sales and consumer sentiment, that could influence trading. The Fed has said part of the reason it might buy bonds is to get inflation more in line with historical levels.
In corporate news, shares of Gymboree, the children's clothing retailer, jumped 22.4 percent after Bain Capital announced that it was taking the company private in a $1.8 billion deal.
Earnings season also picks up this week with industry bellwethers Intel, JPMorgan Chase and General Electric releasing quarterly results.
The Dow Jones industrial average gained 3.86 points, or 0.04 percent, to close at 11,010.34. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 0.17 point to 1,165.32, while the Nasdaq composite index rose 0.42 point, or 0.02 percent, to 2,402.33.
The dollar rose against the euro and the Japanese yen. It had been falling consistently in recent weeks against those two currencies. Lower interest rates on American bonds would make it less attractive for foreign investors to hold the dollar.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BONDS (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); GOING PRIVATE (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); SALES FIGURES (76%); MANAGEMENT BUYOUTS (75%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); EURO (70%); RETAILERS (67%); RETAIL SALES (62%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (62%); CHILDREN'S CLOTHING STORES (61%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (82%); BAIN CAPITAL LLC (52%); INTEL CORP (52%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (52%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (82%); JPM (LSE) (82%); 8634 (TSE) (82%); INTC (NASDAQ) (52%); GNE (PAR) (52%); GEC (LSE) (52%); GE (SWX) (52%); GE (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (82%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (82%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (82%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (52%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2010



299 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1669 words

HEADLINE: For Women In France, Dim Outlook On Equality

BYLINE: By KATRIN BENNHOLD

 BODY:
PARIS -- Could there be anything more French than this workout?
Weeks after giving birth, French women are offered a state-paid, extended course of vaginal gymnastics, complete with personal trainer, electric stimulation devices and computer games that reward particularly nimble squeezing. The aim, said Agnes de Marsac, a physiotherapist who runs such sessions: ''Making love again soon and making more babies.''
Perineal therapy is as ubiquitous in France as free nursery schools, generous family allowances, tax deductions for each child, discounts for large families on high-speed trains, and the expectation that after a paid, four-month maternity leave mothers are back in shape -- and back at work.
Courtesy of the state, French women seem to have it all: multiple children, a job and, often, a figure to die for. 
What they don't have is equality: France ranks 46th in the World Economic Forum's 2010 gender equality report, trailing the United States, most of Europe, but also Kazakhstan and Jamaica. Eighty-two percent of French women aged 25-49 work, many of them full-time, but 82 percent of parliamentary seats are occupied by men. French women earn 26 percent less than men but spend twice as much time on domestic tasks. They have the most babies in Europe, but are also the biggest consumers of anti-depressants.
A recent 22-country survey by the Pew Research Center summed it up: three in four French people believe men have a better life than women, by far the highest share in any country polled.
''French women are exhausted,'' said Valerie Toranian, editor-in-chief of Elle magazine in France. ''We have the right to do what men do -- as long as we also take care of the children, cook a delicious dinner and look immaculate. We have to be superwoman.''
The birthplace of Simone de Beauvoir and Brigitte Bardot may look Scandinavian in employment statistics, but it remains Latin in attitude. French women appear to worry about being feminine, not feminist, and French men often display a form of gallantry predating the 1789 revolution. Indeed, the liberation of French women can seem almost accidental -- a byproduct of a paternalist state that takes children under its republican wings from toddler age and an obsession with natality rooted in three devastating wars.
''At the origin, family policy wasn't about women, it was about Germany,'' said Genevieve Fraisse, author of several books on gender history. ''French mothers have conditions women elsewhere can only dream of. But stereotypes remain very much intact.''
Or, as the philosopher Bernard-Henri Levy put it: ''France is an old Gallic macho country.''
France crystallizes the paradox facing many women across the developed world in the early 21st century: They have more say over their sexuality (in France birth control and abortion are legal and subsidized), they have overtaken men in education and are catching up in the labor market, but few make it to the top of business or politics.
Only one of France's top companies is run by a woman: Anne Lauvergeon is chief executive of the nuclear power giant Areva and mother of two young children.
Having those children is relatively easy in France, one reason Paris seems to teem with stylish career women with several offspring.
At 31, Fleur Cohen has four children and works full-time as a doctor at a Left Bank hospital. As she drops her youngest at nursery in stilettos and pencil skirt you would never guess that she gave birth only three months ago.
Child No. 4 wasn't ''planned,'' Ms. Cohen said, but it doesn't change all that much: Instead of three children, she now takes four on the Metro in the morning and drops them at the public school and subsidized hospital nursery. She joked that children are probably the best way to reduce your tax bill. Irrespective of income, parents get a monthly allowance of 123, or about $170, for two children, 282 for three children and an additional 158 for every child after that. Add to that tax deductions and other benefits, and the Cohens pretty much stopped paying tax after baby No. 3.
Across town, Ms. de Marsac snapped on a plastic glove, inserted two fingers between Clara Pflug's legs and told her to think of the wings of a butterfly as she contracted her birth canal muscles. The French state offers mothers 10 one-on-one, half-hour sessions of perineal therapy to prevent post-pregnancy incontinence and organ descent -- and to improve sex. Ten sessions of free abdominal exercises follow; Ms. de Marsac promises Ms. Pflug a ''washboard tummy.''
French women have on average two babies, compared with 1.5 in the European Union overall.
Asked by foreign delegations about ''le miracle francais,'' Nadine Morano, the feisty family minister and mother of three, says bluntly: ''We spend the most money and we offer good childcare, it's as simple as that. Our country understood a long time ago that to reconstruct a nation you need children.''
The 1870 defeat by a much more fertile Prussia led to first efforts to encourage childbirth. Then came the losses of World War I. Since 1920, when the gold Medal of the French Family -- to honor mothers of eight or more -- was created, expenditure on pro-breeding policies has blossomed. Last year, 97 billion, or 5.1 percent of gross domestic product -- twice the E.U. average -- went on family, childcare and maternity benefits.
Emblematic in this regard are the ''ecoles maternelles,'' free all-day nursery schools set up a century after the French revolution in part, said Michelle Perrot, a historian, to stamp out the lingering influence of the Roman Catholic Church.
La Fleche houses the oldest ecole maternelle in France. At 8:30 a.m., parents drop off toddlers as young as two. Classes end at 4:30 p.m. but a free municipal service offers optional childcare until 6:30 p.m. Children are guaranteed a place in ''maternelle'' from the age of three and 99 percent of them attend.
Katy de Bresson, a single mother of two, called the enrollment of her son Arthur a ''mini-revolution.'' Free of all childcare costs, she could return to work full-time. ''I am a lot happier and a lot more self-confident since then.''
Working mothers being the norm, Isabelle Nicolas, a nurse whose youngest son, Titouan, is in Arthur's class and who quit work after his birth, feels pressure to return. ''I spend a lot of time justifying myself,'' she said. ''In France you are expected to do it all.''
But ask any mother here whether school had changed the life of her husband and the answer is ''non.''
''The school is called 'maternelle' for a reason,'' said principal Anne Leguen. ''In France, children are still considered to be the responsibility of mothers.''
Forty percent of French mothers undergo a career change within a year of giving birth, compared with 6 percent of men. Both parents have the right to take time off or reduce their hours until the child turns three -- but 97 percent of those who do are women.
Women spend on average five hours and one minute per day on childcare and domestic tasks, while men spend two hours and seven minutes, according to the national statistics office Insee.
In Paris, Ms. Cohen's husband is a doctor, too. But she bathes all four children, cooks and does the Saturday shopping -- largely, she insists, by choice. ''If I didn't prepare food for my children, I would feel less like a mother,'' she said.
At work, meanwhile, she plays down motherhood. She sneaks down to the hospital nursery to nurse her baby son, and tries to stay longer than her male colleagues in the evenings. Otherwise, ''everyone will just assume that I'm leaving because of my children and that I am not committed to the job.''
A majority of medical graduates in France are female. Yet all 11 department heads in her hospital are men.
''French men have always been slow to give up power,'' said Jean-Francois Cope, parliamentary leader of President Nicolas Sarkozy's center-right party, who is defending a bill to oblige companies to fill 40 percent of boardroom seats with women.
The French Republic made ''equality'' a founding principle, but women were allowed to vote for the first time only in 1945. Since a 1998 law obliged political parties to have an equal number of men and women candidates on their party lists, parties have tended to pay fines rather than comply.
Women leaders come under close scrutiny in what is after all the home of couture. Ms. Morano recalls being mocked on television for wearing the same jacket several times. Ms. Lauvergeon likened her outfit to ''armor.''
Four pieces of equal pay legislation have passed since 1972. But in 2009, even childless women in their forties still earned 17 percent less than men.
''A patriarchal corporate culture,'' is the main barrier facing women in French companies, according to Brigitte Gresy, author of a 2009 report on gender equality in the workplace.
France is Latin not just in its culture of seduction, but also in its late work hours, Ms. Gresy said. And the disproportional weight of a small number of male-dominated engineering schools in grooming the elites has done its part in excluding women from power. Xavier Michel, president of Ecole Polytechnique, points out that the number of female students has risen tenfold from seven to 70 since he graduated in 1972 -- but that leaves it at just 14 percent.
Simone Veil was 18 when French women first voted and 28 when she was allowed to open her own bank account. At 38, as health minister, she pushed through the legalization of abortion. ''A lot has changed, but a lot hasn't,'' she says today. More comfort to her than many of the laws in recent years is the fact that more fathers push strollers through her neighborhood.
Ms. Fraisse, the philosopher, says more than two centuries after France got rid of the king as the father of the nation, it needs to get rid of the father as the king of the family. ''We had one revolution,'' she said, ''now we need another one -- in the family.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Fleur Cohen, 31, who works full time as a doctor, with her four children. Last year, France spent $135 billion on family, child care and maternity benefits. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHANE LAVOUE FOR THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE) CHART: France Embraces Motherhood: France's fertility rate is higher than that of many other European countries partly because of government support. (Source: United Nations) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOMEN (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); FAMILY (90%); CHILDREN (90%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (78%); MATERNITY LEAVE (78%); GENDER EQUALITY (78%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (78%); MEN (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); PHYSICAL THERAPY (72%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (70%); WAGE DISCRIMINATION (68%); WRITERS (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); TRAINS (55%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (74%) FRANCE (99%); EUROPE (93%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (55%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2010



300 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 232 words

HEADLINE: Surge in Corn Futures Raises Food Price Worries

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Corn futures surged on Monday, hitting two-year peaks and leading other agricultural commodities higher on the second session of strong gains after the government slashed its crop outlook, initiating worries of higher prices for food and biofuels. 
Copper and gold prices rose as well, lifting the 19-commodity Reuters-Jefferies CRB index, which extended Friday's two-year high even though crude oil fell.
Corn rose 5 percent in Chicago futures trading after soaring 9 percent on Friday.
Soybeans, sugar and coffee also had sharp gains in the two sessions on worries that agricultural supplies would tighten from smaller harvests forecast for this year. Ethanol futures in New York surged 9.9 percent to close at $2.185 a gallon. Corn is the main feedstock for ethanol production.
The biggest two-day run-up for corn since 1988, it brought back memories of early 2008, when record high grains prices led to sharply higher food prices.
''For sure, with higher feed grain prices there is potential for upward price pressure particularly on pork, poultry and beef,'' said Luke Mathews, commodity strategist at Commonwealth Bank of Australia.
The dollar rose slightly, but that did not derail gains in commodities.
The dollar's fall has encouraged the commodities rally during the last month, as investors speculated that the Federal Reserve would soon undertake new stimulus measures to support the economy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUTURES (94%); FOOD PRICES (92%); PRICE INCREASES (92%); CORN MARKETS (91%); BIOFUELS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); GRAIN MARKETS (90%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (88%); GRAIN FARMING (79%); BIOMASS (79%); SUGAR MARKETS (78%); MEATS (78%); ALCOHOLS (77%); ETHANOL (77%); US DOLLAR (77%); GOLD MARKETS (73%); PORK (73%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (73%); COPPER MARKETS (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (73%); MEALS & FEEDS MARKETS (73%); POULTRY (72%); ETHYL ALCOHOL MFG (69%)

COMPANY: COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA LTD (68%)

TICKER: CBA (ASX) (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (68%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (68%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (68%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (68%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (68%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2010



301 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ITINERARIES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 853 words

HEADLINE: Sprucing Up in a Downturn

BYLINE: By JANE L. LEVERE

 BODY:
The hotel industry in the United States, still in the doldrums from the slowdown in leisure and business travel, is generally not taking on many major redesigns or other big projects. But there are exceptions.
Starwood Hotels and Resorts Worldwide is planning guest room redesigns for its Sheraton and Westin brands. An announcement is expected on Tuesday.
And some top business travel hotels are undergoing total or major refurbishments in cities like New York and Los Angeles, as well as London and Shanghai. Holiday Inn, a brand of the InterContinental Hotels Group, meanwhile, says it will complete its systemwide, top-to-bottom upgrading of all its hotels by December. 
Starwood's redesign plans will affect just 30 Sheratons and 11 Westins out of a total of 576 hotels worldwide next year, at an estimated cost of over $100 million.
Industry experts predicted that these and other refurbishments would continue to be unusual, perhaps for years.
Hotels mostly are franchised or managed, not owned, by companies like Starwood and Marriott, though the companies set standards for decor and service that hotel owners must maintain. The owners, not management companies, must pay for upkeep.
Bjorn Hanson, divisional dean of the Preston Robert Tisch Center for Hospitality, Tourism and Sports Management at New York University, estimated that capital spending at existing hotels in the United States climbed to a record high of $5.5 billion in 2008. But he estimated that spending fell to $3.3 billion last year and would drop further, to $2.7 billion, in 2010.
The decline in hotels' overall upkeep ''is starting to become evident to guests,'' he said, ''from scuffed wall coverings in hallways to torn drapes and faded, worn and stained carpeting and upholstery.''
Many hotel owners cannot afford to improve guest rooms or public spaces because of declining room revenue and other income, which may be enough only to pay debt service, said Rick Swig, president of RSBA & Associates, a consulting firm in San Francisco that advises hotel owners.
The biggest exception is the Holiday Inn brand, including the midscale, full-service Holiday Inn and limited-service Holiday Inn Express hotels. IHG announced a plan for widespread improvements in 2007, before the worst of the economic downturn hit. But it went ahead with the plan.
''Research from every recession since the Great Depression demonstrates brands that increased investment on their customer experience and marketing activity during the recession gained market share both during the downturn and during the recovery,'' said Kevin Kowalski, senior vice president for global brand management at IHG.
The plan, which is costing an average of $150,000 to $250,000 for each hotel, entails upgraded lobbies, guest rooms and bathrooms, plus a new employee training program.
Mr. Kowalski said the Holiday Inn upgrades had increased revenue per available room by 3 to 7 percent, on average, compared with hotels that had not been upgraded.
Sheraton -- with 406 hotels worldwide, it has more than half of Starwood's hotels -- is introducing two new guest room designs, one inspired by the early 20th-century Regency revival, the other by early 19th-century Regency decor. Both will feature oversize armchairs with ottomans, bedside tables with built-in outlets for electronic equipment and water-conserving plumbing.
''When business travelers come back, it will be good to see a revitalization of the Sheraton brand, in particular,'' said Steven Kent, lodging analyst for Goldman Sachs, who said the Sheraton upgrades would ''bring them up to par with other names.''
Westin -- the second-largest Starwood brand, with 170 hotels worldwide -- is introducing two guest room designs, inspired by elements of nature and an Asian aesthetic
Henry H. Harteveldt, travel analyst for Forrester Research, called the new Sheraton and Westin guest room designs ''attractive, but not cutting-edge.'' He said the designs were ''not distinctive enough to justify a rate increase, but they will help preserve rates, which is a victory when demand is uneven and consumers are price-focused.''
A few other hotels frequented by business travelers are undergoing major refurbishments in the United States, including a new Conrad in New York's financial district, occupying a former Embassy Suites and opening in late 2011, and the Bel-Air in Los Angeles, set to reopen next July.
Two luxury hotels in London are reopening after a complete refurbishment, the Savoy, which reopened Sunday, and the Four Seasons Hotel London at Park Lane, scheduled to reopen in December.
Shanghai also has two newly renovated luxury hotels on the Bund, the Fairmont Peace Hotel, which reopened last July, and the Waldorf Astoria, opening in phases in a former British men's club.
The owners of these hotels ''probably have deep pockets, large balance sheets or prearranged financing, and can afford to make improvements,'' Mr. Swig said.
Longer term, his outlook for hotel owners' capital spending is not particularly rosy. He predicted that hotel revenue could remain depressed until 2013, and would not fully rebound until 2016.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Refurbishing was in progress last month at the Savoy hotel in London. The hotel reopened on Sunday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW TESTA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (94%); LODGING (90%); HOTEL CHAINS (90%); LEISURE TRAVEL (90%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RECESSION (89%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); REVENUE PER AVAILABLE ROOM (78%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (77%); BRANDING (77%); MARKET SHARE (77%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (75%); FULL SERVICE HOTELS (73%); SPORTS BUSINESS (73%); RESORTS (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (69%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (67%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (64%); GREAT DEPRESSION (60%); SPORTS (51%); SPORTS & RECREATION (51%)

COMPANY: STARWOOD HOTELS & RESORTS WORLDWIDE INC (91%); INTERCONTINENTAL HOTELS GROUP PLC (57%)

TICKER: HOT (NYSE) (91%); IHG (NYSE) (57%); IHG (LSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (91%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2010



302 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1218 words

HEADLINE: In California, Pot Is Now an Art Patron

BYLINE: By RANDY KENNEDY

 BODY:
SANTA ROSA, Calif. -- Nonprofit arts groups tend to spend much of their time scrounging for grants and praying for corporate largesse. But one art foundation taking shape on 120 acres in the high oak chaparral of Sonoma County has different kinds of worries these days: spider mites, bud rot and the occasional low-flying surveillance visit from the local Sheriff's Office.
This is because the foundation, called Life Is Art, recently began to reap a new kind of financing, in the form of tall, happy-looking marijuana plants. Late this month, with some help from the sale of its first small crop, grown under California's liberal medical marijuana laws, the group plans to present an inaugural exhibition on its land, of sculpture and installation work by more than 20 visiting artists -- some of whom will have helped bring in the harvest. The foundation's hope is that income from succeeding crops will fully support such projects, in perpetuity, creating a kind of Marfa-meets-ganja art retreat north of San Francisco and a new economic engine for art philanthropy. 
At a going wholesale rate of $200 or more an ounce in the Bay Area for high-quality medical marijuana, it's a lot simpler than raising money the traditional way, the project's organizers point out. And -- except for the nagging fact that selling marijuana remains a crime under federal law -- it even feels more honest to the people behind Life Is Art. They see it as a way of supporting the cause with physical labor and the fruits of the land instead of the wheedling of donors, an especially appealing prospect in an economy where raising money has become more difficult than ever.
''The whole game of finding support just started to seem so childish,'' said Kirsha Kaechele, the foundation's director, as she hauled a plastic tub of freshly harvested cannabis hybrid branches up a hill one morning recently on her rolling land just outside of Santa Rosa. ''So I decided to grow up and became a marijuana farmer.''
In California, where voters will consider a ballot initiative in November that would make theirs the first state to legalize marijuana for recreational use -- and where some growers are already donating portions of their proceeds to nonprofit causes like AIDS charities -- the idea of putting pot to work for the arts seems to be spreading.
Artists Collective, a two-year-old medical marijuana service in Los Angeles formed with the idea of directing a large share of its income to the creative world, gave away its first chunk of money in August, to the winner of a national short-story contest it sponsored, judged by the novelist Neal Pollack. The initial prize was just $1,000, but Dann Halem, the collective's founder and director, said the goal of the nonprofit organization was to become as effective and well known as Newman's Own, Paul Newman's food-based charity, which he cited as an inspiration.
''Hopefully in the long run this is something that will be able to give millions and millions to the arts,'' he said.
Ms. Kaechele (pronounced KEH-shell-uh), 34, has spent the last decade directing public art projects in New Orleans. But after Hurricane Katrina and the recession, her operation was on the brink of collapse. That is when she started to think about the money-making possibilities of the rural land in Sonoma that she and her business partner, Jaohn Orgon, had bought six years earlier.
''Everyone who knew that I had land in California just assumed I was growing pot on it,'' she said, ''which is kind of funny, and I'd tell them I wasn't.''
But after a conversation with the Brooklyn artist Fred Tomaselli, whose psychedelic art is sometimes made with marijuana leaves, she started to think seriously about the idea. She formed a California nonprofit called American Medicinals. (Growers in the state tend to operate as nonprofit or not-for-profit organizations.) Through Craigslist she found a veteran California growing expert whose long involvement in marijuana cultivation during the years when it was completely illegal had left him perpetually wary, prompting a strange series of initial e-mails in which he referred only to his expertise in growing goji berries.
Now, six months after planting the crop from seed -- a mix of two varieties, O.G. Kush and Cherry Pie, grown in two small outdoor plots and one indoor space -- she and a handful of artists who will be making work for the show have been harvesting the plants and hanging them upside down on wires to dry in the barn that serves as the group's headquarters and makeshift studio space. They sold their first dried and cured buds to medical users in the first week of October.
They are loath to provide details about how much marijuana they hope to produce with the first harvest -- plant limits vary from county to county, and they worry about how the Sonoma County Sheriff's Office, which made an unannounced visit by helicopter in September, interprets the limits there. But their goal for next year's crop is to generate $1 million after expenses to be used for art projects on the farm and to send back to support their programs in New Orleans, which they hope will ultimately be financed entirely by the farm.
''We think it's a completely realistic number,'' Ms. Kaechele said.
For the moment, though, the Sonoma wing of the foundation is still in its infancy and feels like a combination of Yaddo, a hip organic farm and a very laid-back commune (but with little smoking of the funds going on, at least in a reporter's presence). Ms. Kaechele eventually wants to be able to set up artists' residencies, to commission pieces from emerging and established artists and to pay for works that would remain permanently on the land, as Donald Judd's do in Marfa, Tex., at the Chinati Foundation.
While the debate about marijuana legalization has focused on its potential dangers, its mainstream benefits are starting to get more attention: higher tax income, struggling newspapers buoyed by marijuana ads. In California the potential for recreational legalization in November worries many medical growers like Mr. Halem of Artists Collective, who fear that the change would bring in corporate interests, cause prices to fall and push out growers with charitable aims.
Ms. Kaechele and the young artists whose work will appear in the first exhibition, opening to the public on Oct. 22, seem overjoyed with the way things are working out so far, but not everyone shares the sentiment. A couple who live on a property adjacent to the farm, Steve and Catherine Matuszak, only recently learned of the growing operation nearby and said they were worried about increased traffic up the winding mountain roads and even more about the potential for thieves.
''We don't have concerns with them as individuals, really,'' Ms. Matuszak, a dental hygienist, said of the new art-farm neighbors. ''It's just the situation that's developing that worries us.''
Ms. Kaechele said she wanted to work hard to win her neighbors over, and she even has an idea for dealing with the drug-crime concerns (another completely new kind of worry for a public-art organizer): She will ask artists to come up with proposals for alarms and security devices that will double as art installations on the land.
''We see it as a set of curatorial problems for us to respond to,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Kirsha Kaechele with Steve Soltis, an artist who helps with Life Is Art, which sells marijuana to support art projects. (C1)
Above, Louise Riley, one of the Life Is Art artists, working on a piece beneath some of the group's marijuana. Top, from left: Kirsha Kaechele with a newly harvested plant
Jason MacClain inspecting the product
 and Rya Kleinpeter working on a sculpture. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); CANNABIS (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); DECRIMINALIZATION (89%); MEDICAL MARIJUANA (89%); CHARITIES (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); FUNDRAISING (89%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); PHILANTHROPY (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); FOUNDATIONS (78%); SHERIFFS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); DRUG POLICY (75%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE LAWS (75%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (75%); AGRICULTURAL INCOME (74%); EXHIBITIONS (74%); HEALTH CARE LAW (74%); VOLUNTARY HEALTH ORGANIZATIONS (73%); DRUG LIBERALIZATION (70%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (60%); REFERENDUMS (60%); WRITERS (60%); BALLOTS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2010



303 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1044 words

HEADLINE: Taking Early Retirement May Retire Memory, Too

BYLINE: By GINA KOLATA

 BODY:
The two economists call their paper ''Mental Retirement,'' and their argument has intrigued behavioral researchers. Data from the United States, England and 11 other European countries suggest that the earlier people retire, the more quickly their memories decline.
The implication, the economists and others say, is that there really seems to be something to the ''use it or lose it'' notion -- if people want to preserve their memories and reasoning abilities, they may have to keep active. 
''It's incredibly interesting and exciting,'' said Laura L. Carstensen, director of the Center on Longevity at Stanford University. ''It suggests that work actually provides an important component of the environment that keeps people functioning optimally.''
While not everyone is convinced by the new analysis, published recently in The Journal of Economic Perspectives, a number of leading researchers say the study is, at least, a tantalizing bit of evidence for a hypothesis that is widely believed but surprisingly difficult to demonstrate.
Researchers repeatedly find that retired people as a group tend to do less well on cognitive tests than people who are still working. But, they note, that could be because people whose memories and thinking skills are declining may be more likely to retire than people whose cognitive skills remain sharp.
And research has failed to support the premise that mastering things like memory exercises, crossword puzzles and games like Sudoku carry over into real life, improving overall functioning.
''If you do crossword puzzles, you get better at crossword puzzles,'' said Lisa Berkman, director of the Center for Population and Development Studies at Harvard. ''If you do Sudoku, you get better at Sudoku. You get better at one narrow task. But you don't get better at cognitive behavior in life.''
The study was possible, explains one of its authors, Robert Willis, a professor of economics at the University of Michigan, because the National Institute on Aging began a large study in the United States nearly 20 years ago. Called the Health and Retirement Study, it surveys more than 22,000 Americans over age 50 every two years, and administers memory tests.
That led European countries to start their own surveys, using similar questions so the data would be comparable among countries. Now, Dr. Willis said, Japan and South Korea have begun administering the survey to their populations. China is planning to start doing a survey next year. And India and several countries in Latin America are starting preliminary work on their own surveys.
''This is a new approach that is only possible because of the development of comparable data sets around the world.'' Dr. Willis said.
The memory test looks at how well people can recall a list of 10 nouns immediately and 10 minutes after they heard them. A perfect score is 20, meaning all 10 were recalled each time. Those tests were chosen for the surveys because memory generally declines with age, and this decline is associated with diminished ability to think and reason.
People in the United States did best, with an average score of 11. Those in Denmark and England were close behind, with scores just above 10. In Italy, the average score was around 7, in France it was 8, and in Spain it was a little more than 6.
Examining the data from the various countries, Dr. Willis and his colleague Susann Rohwedder, associate director of the RAND Center for the Study of Aging in Santa Monica, Calif., noticed that there are large differences in the ages at which people retire.
In the United States, England and Denmark, where people retire later, 65 to 70 percent of men were still working when they were in their early 60s. In France and Italy, the figure is 10 to 20 percent, and in Spain it is 38 percent.
Economic incentives produce the large differences in retirement age, Dr. Rohwedder and Dr. Willis report. Countries with earlier retirement ages have tax policies, pension, disability and other measures that encourage people to leave the work force at younger ages.
The researchers find a straight-line relationship between the percentage of people in a country who are working at age 60 to 64 and their performance on memory tests. The longer people in a country keep working, the better, as a group, they do on the tests when they are in their early 60s.
The study cannot point to what aspect of work might help people retain their memories. Nor does it reveal whether different kinds of work might be associated with different effects on memory tests. And, as Dr. Berkman notes, it has nothing to say about the consequences of staying in a physically demanding job that might lead to disabilities. ''There has to be an out for people who face physical disabilities if they continue,'' she said.
And of course not all work is mentally stimulating. But, Dr. Willis said, work has other aspects that might be operating.
''There is evidence that social skills and personality skills -- getting up in the morning, dealing with people, knowing the value of being prompt and trustworthy -- are also important,'' he said. ''They go hand in hand with the work environment.''
But Hugh Hendrie, an emeritus psychology professor at Indiana University School of Medicine, is not convinced by the paper's conclusions.
''It's a nice approach, a very good study,'' he said. But, he said, there are many differences among countries besides retirement ages. The correlations do not prove causation. They also, he added, do not prove that there is a clinical significance to the changes in scores on memory tests.
All true, said Richard Suzman, associate director for behavioral and social research at the National Institute on Aging.
Nonetheless, he said, ''it's a strong finding; it's a big effect.''
If work does help maintain cognitive functioning, it will be important to find out what aspect of work is doing that, Dr. Suzman said. ''Is it the social engagement and interaction or the cognitive component of work, or is it the aerobic component of work?'' he asked. ''Or is it the absence of what happens when you retire, which could be increased TV watching?''
''It's quite convincing, but it's not the complete story,'' Dr. Suzman said. ''This is an opening shot. But it's got to be followed up.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: Work and Cognition: Men and women in their early 60s were asked to repeat and later recall a list of 10 words in a simple test. Memory was generally worse in countries with an early retirement age, and better in those with a later retirement. (Source: Journal of Economic Perspectives) (D6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (90%); EARLY RETIREMENT (78%); ELDER HEALTH (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); WRITERS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); JAPAN (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); ENGLAND (73%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2010



304 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 983 words

HEADLINE: Violinist Cancels Recital Over Detroit Strike Tension

BYLINE: By DANIEL J. WAKIN

 BODY:
Sarah Chang, internationally known violin soloist, meet Detroit, union town.
Ms. Chang waded into a strike at the Detroit Symphony Orchestra, agreeing last week to play a recital on Monday presented by the orchestra's management. But she backed out over the weekend when orchestra members, musicians' union leaders and players around the country complained.
''My original intention to bring music to the community has been derailed, and I have been unwillingly drawn into an inner dispute that does not appropriately involve me,'' she said in a statement on Sunday. She was flying from Detroit to California on Monday for a concert and could not immediately return a call seeking comment. 
The incident quickly acquired an ugly tone, further poisoning relations between management and the players, who went on strike on Oct. 4.
Both sides said the issue was exacerbated by social media.
The orchestra's management cited what it said were harassing words and threats among the denunciations posted over the weekend on Facebook pages set up by Chang fans and by the orchestra, and in e-mail and phone messages sent to Ms. Chang, 29, herself.
''The nature of the e-mails had gotten ugly,'' Anne Parsons, the orchestra's president and chief executive, said in an interview on Monday. ''She used the word 'vicious' to me. She felt harassed and she felt threatened. I think she felt uncomfortable appearing in public.''
Ms. Parsons said some of the comments amounted to illegal acts, but did not identify them. She did say that someone had posted Ms. Chang's cellphone number on the Web.
Ms. Parsons said the orchestra did not report the threats to the police because that was not its role. She said that she did not believe that Ms. Chang had made a report.
Ms. Parsons said that while she hoped union members were not behind the worst postings, ''nevertheless, the union must take responsibility for the behavior of its members.''
Orchestra members denounced the suggestion that Ms. Chang, a highly respected musician, had been harassed or threatened.
''You have to have something to back it up,'' said Haden McKay, a cellist and the spokesman for the players. ''You can't just throw terms around like that.'' He said union leaders could not be blamed for random comments tossed onto blogs, Facebook pages or newspaper Web sites.
Another orchestra representative, Karl Pituch, the principal French horn player, said he had seen no confirmation of the reported threats. ''I have no idea what she's trying to stir up,'' he said of Ms. Parsons's statements.
After Ms. Chang's withdrawal, the Detroit players committee issued its thanks and said that if she had received any message that was ''less than polite or could be considered threatening, please accept our sincere apology.''
More than 150 posts on Ms. Chang's fan page on Facebook urged her not to play the concert, many from musicians. They overwhelmingly used respectful or neutral language, although about a half-dozen tossed out the word ''scab.'' Several comments also called the recital a ''slap in the face'' and ''despicable.'' One poster said that if Ms. Chang crossed the picket line, ''I am discarding all of your recordings.''
The musicians of the Los Angeles Philharmonic and San Francisco Symphony Orchestra also weighed in, asking Ms. Chang not to play. After her announcement to withdraw, the comments turned into a tide of praise and thanks.
The fracas came into focus when a publicist released a statement on Friday quoting Ms. Chang as saying that she felt ''compelled to honor my commitment to contributing to the musical community'' of Detroit by playing the recital, and asked that ticket revenue be donated to the musicians' pension fund. She sent a Twitter message on Friday making a similar announcement.
Orchestra members said they saw that as an empty gesture because management is required to make contributions to that fund. A flood of requests for her to cancel began appearing on Facebook.
The Detroit players said they were prepared to picket her recital -- which they called a ''replacement concert'' -- and wrote Ms. Chang a letter asking her to reconsider. Ray Hair, the president of the American Federation of Musicians, and Bruce Ridge, the chairman of the International Conference of Symphony and Opera Musicians, issued similar pleas.
''Please do not stain your illustrious career by replacing musicians as they seek to serve their community and feed their families,'' Mr. Ridge wrote.
Ms. Chang was scheduled to play a concerto in a program with the Detroit Symphony last week. After the strike was called, management asked Ms. Chang to play the recital, and she agreed, Ms. Parsons said. Patrons were told they could exchange their orchestra tickets for the recital.
Ms. Chang, who is not a member of a musicians' union, was well aware of the labor situation.
''She has crossed other picket lines,'' Ms. Parsons said, attributing the information to Ms. Chang's manager and saying she did not know the specific instances. ''I would not call her naive.''
Ms. Parsons said other important artists had offered to play under the Detroit Symphony's auspices. But she declined to name them, and said she did not know when an announcement would be made.
The orchestra called a strike after negotiations stalled in September over the magnitude of pay cuts and benefit reductions and management's desire to change work rules substantially. The symphony's executives imposed its terms: a 33 percent reduction in the base salary of $104,605 for existing players, and a 42 percent reduction for new hires.
The players had proposed a 22 percent reduction the first year, with raises bringing them to within 8 percent of their current salaries within three years.
Management contends that Detroit's disastrous economy means that the orchestra cannot survive without the deep cuts. The players said the cuts would destroy the orchestra's high caliber.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sarah Chang canceled a recital after sharp reaction on Facebook and elsewhere. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERTO SERRA-IGUANA PRESS/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); STRIKES (78%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); SOCIAL MEDIA (73%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (72%); INTERNET & WWW (72%); INTERVIEWS (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (66%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (55%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2010



305 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 635 words

HEADLINE: The Latest Crisis

 BODY:
Another crisis is roiling American-Pakistani relations after NATO helicopters mistakenly fired on a border post and killed Pakistani soldiers last month. Islamabad then closed a major supply line for NATO troops in Afghanistan; last week, extremists torched fuel trucks waiting at the border crossing. A new White House report said that Pakistan's Army is refusing to go after Taliban groups targeting American forces.
After a joint Pakistan-NATO inquiry concluded last week that the Pakistani troops were ''simply firing warning shots'' when the Afghan-based helicopters crossed the border, the United States apologized. Pakistan has since reopened the crossing. 
Still, making this alliance work is essential. Pakistan's government is unraveling in the wake of its incompetent response to devastating floods. The United States needs to do more to help -- and Pakistan's military and civilian leaders finally need to admit that winning the battle against extremists, on both sides of the border, is essential to Pakistan's security. The agenda is daunting:
RELIEF The government's incompetence after the floods has stoked public outrage. Even the Army -- Pakistan's best-functioning institution -- has been overwhelmed. The United States is the largest donor of emergency aid, more than $450 million so far, and American troops rescued at least 21,000 Pakistanis. Millions of people are still at risk. If Pakistan's Army needs more help, it should ask -- and publicize American cooperation.
RECONSTRUCTION Devastation is vast: twenty million people were displaced and countless bridges, roads, schools and farms were swept away. It will take decades and billions of dollars to rebuild. Donor nations were already tired after Haiti, but there is an antipathy toward Pakistan that should give its government serious pause.
Many donors -- starting with China, Pakistan's longtime ally -- must do more. The Obama administration is rightly telling Pakistan that it must invest in its recovery by finally taxing wealthy citizens. Pakistan could also shift funds from its nuclear program. A transparent commission to receive and manage contributions would help rally donors, as would working closely with the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank.
AMERICAN AID In addition to billions of dollars in military aid, Congress last year approved a five-year, $7.5 billion aid package for schools, hospitals and energy plants. Since the floods, Washington has shifted some of that money to recovery efforts. It will have to shift more. Washington needs to move quickly on some high-visibility projects so Pakistanis can see that they are not alone.
GOVERNMENT REFORM Pakistan's Army chief, Gen. Ashfaq Parvez Kayani, last month reportedly warned President Asif Ali Zardari that the country is on the verge of economic collapse and insisted on a government shakeup. So far, the generals say they don't want to take over -- and a coup would be disastrous. But the argument for reform is undeniable. Washington can, quietly, help the Pakistanis think it through. Any changes must be done transparently and within the Constitution.
DRONE STRIKES In recent weeks, the C.I.A. has stepped up its bombing campaign against Taliban strongholds on Pakistan's border. The American oversight system for these attacks is deeply inadequate, but Pakistan's leadership needs to understand that if they won't go after insurgents targeting American troops, then the United States military will.
When President Obama visits India next month, he must quietly urge its government to revive peace talks with Pakistan. That may be the best hope of getting Pakistan's military to focus on fighting the insurgency. Next week, senior Pakistani and American officials will hold the latest in a series of ''strategic dialogues.'' They have a lot to talk about.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (91%); BORDER CONTROL (90%); ARMIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); DISASTER RELIEF (88%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (85%); FLOODS & FLOODING (78%); TALIBAN (78%); HELICOPTERS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); NATURAL DISASTERS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); DISPLACED PERSONS (69%); POWER PLANTS (61%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (61%)

COMPANY: ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (63%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%)

TICKER: ATB (ASX) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (63%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (63%)

PERSON: ASIF ALI ZARDARI (58%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); PAKISTAN (96%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); ASIA (79%); CHINA (79%); HAITI (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2010



306 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: Fed Official Concedes Risk of Low Rates, but Signals No Shift

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Federal Reserve officials ''have no choice'' but to try to ''contain future bubbles and credit binges'' and limit their damage to the economy, the central bank's vice chairwoman said on Monday, detailing the Fed's newly broadened mandate to promote financial stability.
In her first speech since she was sworn in Oct. 4 as the Fed's second-highest ranking official, Janet L. Yellen acknowledged that expansionary monetary policy -- holding interest rates low to stimulate the economy, as the Fed has been doing for more than two years -- ''could provide tinder for a buildup of leverage and excessive risk-taking in the financial system.'' 
But Ms. Yellen did not say that such risks should deter the Fed from resuming purchases of government debt to prop up the flagging recovery, an action most Wall Street analysts expect the Fed to take as early as next month.
She is associated with the camp of so-called inflation doves at the Fed, who tend to emphasize the persistently high unemployment rate rather than the risks of setting off inflation. As a member of the Fed's board of governors from 1994 to 1997, Ms. Yellen served under Alan Greenspan in an era when the Fed did not emphasize tough regulation. Later, she was an adviser to President Bill Clinton and the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco.
In her speech, to the annual meeting of the National Association for Business Economics, in Denver, Ms. Yellen discussed the interplay between monetary policy and ''macroprudential supervision,'' which focuses on the safety of the financial system as a whole rather than the soundness of individual banks and institutions.
Supervision and regulation must be the ''first and main line of defense'' against risks to the financial system, Ms. Yellen said, because monetary policy has other objectives and is ''too blunt an instrument'' to contain such risks. That position is in line with a central belief of Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed's chairman.
Effective supervision should focus on the accumulation of high levels of risk and leverage, Ms. Yellen said, sources of vulnerability that are shared by multiple institutions, and the interconnectedness of the system.
Banking supervision and regulation were a focus of the annual meeting last week of the International Monetary Fund. On Sunday, the Institute of International Finance, a global association of commercial and investment banks, said that many countries were piling on regulations too rapidly and giving too little time for new rules to take effect, and warned that bank lending and economic growth could be curtailed as a result.
But the same day, the Group of Thirty, a private association of finance leaders, called for ''urgent action'' on macroprudential supervision. ''As we have seen, a focus on individual institutions and markets, absent a systemic view, cannot ensure financial stability and resilience,'' said Roger W. Ferguson Jr., a former Fed vice chairman who led the working group that prepared the Group of Thirty's report.
Ms. Yellen, who was a member of that working group, threw her support behind its findings on Monday.
She argued against the idea, fashionable before the 2008 crisis, that business cycles had been tamed and that markets were self-correcting. ''That view lies in tatters today as we look at tens of millions of unemployed and the trillions of dollars of lost output and lost wealth around the world,'' she said.
Regulators had been ''lulled into complacency by a combination of a Panglossian worldview and benign experience,'' she said. Turbulent events -- like the Latin American debt crisis and the savings-and-loan disaster in the 1980s; the Asian financial crisis and the failure of the giant hedge fund Long-Term Capital Management in the 1990s; and stock market declines in 1987 and 2000-1 -- appeared to be manageable at the time.
''We appeared to have entered a new period of stability,'' Ms. Yellen said. ''We even gave it a name: the Great Moderation. We were left with a mirage of a system that we thought was invulnerable to shock, a financial Maginot Line that we believed couldn't be breached. We now know that this sense of invincibility was mere hubris.''
She also spoke favorably of the Dodd-Frank overhaul of Wall Street, which President Obama signed in July and which expanded the Fed's mandate, and of proposed global bank regulations, known as Basel III, that will gradually force banks to hold more and higher-quality capital. And she said that regulators should compel financial institutions to have enough liquidity and not to rely too much on unstable, short-term financing.
Ms. Yellen said the new regulatory system should incorporate automatic safeguards and straightforward rules, and involve extensive international coordination. While recognizing that ''overly strict supervision'' posed dangers, she said that policy makers ''had veered disastrously too far in the direction of laissez-faire, with consequences we know too well.''
She concluded by saying: ''Next time I hope we can say, 'We did see it coming, and we did something about it.'''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Janet Yellen, who is known to emphasize the risks of high unemployment, gave her first speech as vice chairwoman of the Fed. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHEW STAVER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); INTEREST RATES (70%); US PRESIDENTS (64%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF SAN FRANCISCO (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (66%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (66%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); BEN BERNANKE (58%); BILL CLINTON (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2010



307 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 888 words

HEADLINE: When 50 Percent Off Just Won't Do

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
WHEN it comes to wooing wary shoppers, many retailers are playing the percentages.
Campaigns for stores, from giant chains to mom-and-pops, are promoting sales that are frequently expressed in percentages off from regular prices. Twenty or 25 percent off, once considered a hefty discount, is practically nothing nowadays, as most consumers must be enticed further to open their wallets or purses.
How willing shoppers are to shop is important as retailers approach the start of the crucial Christmas season. To prime the pump, ads are routinely proclaiming savings of 50, 60 and even 70 percent off. In some instances, the discounts are going as high as 85 percent. 
Some retailers are subtracting atop subtraction by offering an ''extra'' percentage off merchandise, typically items that had been marked down earlier.
For instance, Bloomingdale's, part of Macy's Inc., promoted in newspaper ads on Sunday ''an extra 30 percent-40 percent off'' the reduced prices on clothing, handbags, accessories and jewelry for ''a total savings of 40 percent-75 percent off original prices.''
The Macy's division, not to be outdone, advertised in circulars a ''fashion clearance'' with ''an extra 40 percent off already reduced prices for a total savings of 50 percent-80 percent off original prices.'' That was along with a clearance on home goods with an additional 30 percent off the previously cut prices ''for a total savings of 40 percent-75 percent off original prices.''
Although retailers are managing inventories and margins better than during the recession, there are still ''a lot of sales and promotions,'' said Mariana Sanchez, chief strategic officer at Saatchi & Saatchi X in New York, a unit of the Saatchi & Saatchi division of the Publicis Groupe that specializes in shopper marketing.
The purpose of what seem to be ''amazing discounts'' is to offer ''some trip-driving items,'' Ms. Sanchez said, meaning merchandise that would spur someone to shop a store and, the merchant hopes, also buy some items at full price.
There are shoppers who enjoy ''comparing the circulars, clipping the coupons,'' she added, because they see it ''almost like the sport of shopping, the hunt, as they're in the pursuit of what they want for a better value.''
When such consumers make their purchase, she said, ''they feel like they've won.''
Despite the prevalence of the tactic, reducing prices by large percentages is still effective, Ms. Sanchez said, particularly as consumers become accustomed to discounts.
Sometimes, retailers vary the sales approaches so as not to wear out their effectiveness. One popular tactic is a ''bogo,'' short for buy one, get one, as in a deal to buy an item -- at regular price or on sale -- and get a second item at, say, 50 percent off the regular or sale price.
There are also percent-off savings that are pegged to spending a minimum amount of money. A recent ad from Bloomingdale's offered an extra 15 percent off to shoppers who bought up to $1,999.99 worth of furniture and mattresses. For those whose purchases totaled $2,000 or more, the discount was 20 percent.
J. C. Penney occasionally offers a twist on the so-called door-buster sale with two tiers of percentage-off discounts based on time of day.
For example, early birds who shopped from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. on a recent Saturday received 70 percent off gold jewelry, 60 percent off men's outerwear and 50 percent off women's boots. After 1 p.m., the discounts declined to 60 percent off the jewelry, 50 percent off the outerwear, and 30 to 40 percent off the boots.
The risk in cutting prices by percentages is that it could confuse some customers. Penney has adopted what the company calls a ''clear pricing'' policy.
In stores, signs on displays and tags on merchandise display the prices to be paid after subtracting the discounts. Circulars advertise the policy this way: ''The price you see is the price you pay! No math required.''
At the same time that retailers are demonstrating how eager they are to discount, many are also trying to burnish their brands with image campaigns that run separately from sale ads.
For instance, Lord & Taylor will introduce on Tuesday a campaign to promote the renovation of its flagship Manhattan store, on Fifth Avenue and 39th Street. The campaign describes the overhaul, with a wink, as ''The ultimate face-lift.''
''Promotional messaging is something we do,'' said Amy Avitabile, senior vice president for marketing at Lord & Taylor, referring to percentage-off sales, ''but our primary communication for this month is this campaign.''
''We spent the last year renovating this building, and we're excited to tell our customers about it,'' she added.
The goal of the campaign ''is to get some attention on the brand'' to reach those who do not shop at Lord & Taylor, Ms. Avitabile said, as well as ''to validate for existing customers that they knew the secret of Lord & Taylor before it got out to everybody else.''
The campaign includes shopping bags along with ads in magazines and atop taxi cabs, and on phone kiosks and buses. The campaign is being created internally and by Lipman, an agency in New York.
For Christmas, Lord & Taylor plans an image campaign centered on the word ''share,'' Ms. Avitabile said, to be expressed in ways that will include ''share tradition, share memories, share the warmth of cashmere.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lord & Taylor promotes its discounts, and it also begins a campaign on Tuesday to play up renovations at its flagship store. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); PRICE CUTTING (89%); SALES PROMOTIONS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (76%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (70%); EXECUTIVES (64%); CHRISTMAS (56%)

COMPANY: MACY'S INC (93%); PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (82%); SAATCHI & SAATCHI WORLDWIDE (53%)

TICKER: M (NYSE) (93%); PUB (PAR) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (93%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (93%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (82%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (82%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (82%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2010



308 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 529 words

HEADLINE: Bain Capital To Acquire Children's Retail Store

BYLINE: By THOMAS KAPLAN

 BODY:
The children's clothing store Gymboree announced on Monday that it had agreed to sell itself to the private equity firm Bain Capital for $1.8 billion, raising hopes among investors that buyers may emerge for other specialty retailers. 
The deal, for $65.40 a share, represents a 23.5 percent premium over Gymboree's Friday closing price, and a 57.4 percent premium over the company's stock price on Sept. 30 before reports of a possible sale began to emerge.
Analysts said that the premium Bain had offered to pay was an indication of how private equity firms valued debt-free, cash-rich specialty retailers like Gymboree, which also tended to be less sensitive to the ups and downs of the economy.
The children's clothing store Gymboree announced on Monday that it had agreed to sell itself to the private equity firm Bain Capital for $1.8 billion, raising hopes among investors that buyers may emerge for other specialty retailers.
''Kids keep growing, and you have to keep dressing them,'' said Richard E. Jaffe, an analyst with Stifel Nicolaus. ''It's one of the facts of life.''
Mr. Jaffe named Chico's, Aeropostale and the Children's Place as three other apparel retailers that could also attract buyout offers. Shares in all three companies rose sharply on Monday, with the Children's Place hitting a new 52-week high at $56.86 before falling back down to $53.45, still up more than 2 percent on the day.
Shares of Gymboree surged 22.4 percent, to $64.83.
Part of Gymboree's allure, analysts say, is that beyond having the kind of balance sheet that makes it an appealing acquisition, Gymboree continues to have a path to expansion. It opened its first Crazy 8 store, a more value-oriented children's clothing chain, in August 2007, and now has 133 stores nationwide.
The buyout by Bain Capital is the latest in a series of investments in retailing by the Boston-based private equity firm. Bain profited from Staples in the 1980s and in recent years has taken stakes in Michaels Stores, Toys ''R'' Us and Burlington Coat Factory. In April, Bain took a stake in Lilliput Kidswear, a privately held maker of children's clothing in India.
Gymboree, which was founded in 1976 and went public in 1993, operates 1,037 stores in the United States, Canada, Puerto Rico and Australia under four brands: Gymboree, Gymboree Outlet, Janie and Jack, and Crazy 8. The company posted $109.4 million in earnings on $1 billion in sales in the 12-month period ending in July.
In addition to Bain, several other private equity firms, including Apollo Management, Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Company, Apax Partners and Irving Place Capital expressed interest in Gymboree, The New York Post reported last week.
If Bain's planned tender offer for the outstanding shares of Gymboree is successful, Gymboree said it expected the deal to close before the end of the year.
If the tender offer does not succeed, the agreement calls for a one-step merger. Gymboree, meanwhile, has until Nov. 20 to consider any rival offers.
Bain said it had the necessary financing from Credit Suisse and Morgan Stanley to complete the transaction.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (93%); CHILDREN'S CLOTHING STORES (92%); PRIVATE EQUITY (91%); CHILDREN'S CLOTHING (90%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); CHILDREN'S APPAREL MFG (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%)

COMPANY: BAIN CAPITAL LLC (92%); GYMBOREE CORP (92%); KKR & CO LP (60%); APOLLO ADVISORS LP (54%); BURLINGTON COAT FACTORY WAREHOUSE CORP (52%); APAX PARTNERS LTD (50%); APOLLO GLOBAL MANAGEMENT LLC (50%)

TICKER: KKR (NYSE) (60%); APO (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); NAICS448130 CHILDREN'S & INFANTS' CLOTHING STORES (92%); NAICS448120 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (92%); SIC5641 CHILDREN'S & INFANTS' WEAR STORES (92%); SIC5621 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (60%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (60%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (54%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (54%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (52%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (52%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); INDIA (71%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2010



309 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 601 words

HEADLINE: Seeking to Fix Ties

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER

 BODY:
HANOI, Vietnam -- Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates met here with his Chinese counterpart on Monday to directly make a case for restoring military-to-military relations broken off by Beijing in retaliation for American weapons sales to Taiwan.
At the sidelines of a conference for Asian defense ministers, Mr. Gates spent about half an hour behind closed doors with Gen. Liang Guanglie of China, and emerged to say he had explained how arms sales to Taiwan were a decision by Washington's civilian leadership, not one made by the Pentagon or the armed forces. 
''It is fundamentally a political decision,'' Mr. Gates said. ''Why the military relationship should be held hostage to what is essentially a political decision seems to me curious. And I believe it should not be.''
Restoring communications between the Chinese and American militaries is an urgent need, Mr. Gates said, because ''having greater clarity and understanding of each other is essential to preventing mistrust, miscalculations and mistakes.''
Military relations between the two nations lag far behind their diplomatic and economic ties. Exchanges between the armed forces were completely frozen by China earlier this year in retribution for a decision by the United States to sell $6.4 billion in arms to Taiwan, which Beijing considers a renegade province.
''Indeed, when there are disagreements, it's all the more important to talk to one another -- more and not less,'' Mr. Gates said. ''I have felt for a long time that the dialogue between the two militaries ought to be sustainable regardless of the ups and downs in the relationship.''
General Liang, as expected, extended an official invitation for Mr. Gates to travel to Beijing, and Mr. Gates plans to make the visit next year.
Even so, a Chinese Defense Ministry spokesman said after the meeting that Taiwan remained the ''biggest obstacle'' to improving military relations between the two countries.
Recent Chinese bullying of its smaller neighbors has figured heavily in discussions in advance of the session of defense ministers from the Association of Southeast Asian Nations. China has gone so far as to threaten economic punishment as it has sought to extend its sovereignty over regional waters.
In his public comments on Monday, Mr. Gates again showed that he was trying to balance a desire to restore military relations with China while restate Washington's unwavering support for its partners, allies and the internationally recognized rights of safe passage through international waters.
Thus there was no direct criticism of China, but instead a description of discussions about the broader topic of maritime security. ''We have a shared interest in freedom of navigation and access to maritime domain,'' Mr. Gates said.
The theme was repeated as Mr. Gates's day was spent in a sequence of high-level but low-key sessions with counterparts not only from China but also from Japan, Vietnam and the Philippines.
The most colorful part of the day came when Mr. Gates was introduced to an audience of military personnel and civilian students at Vietnam National University with molar-rattling techno-pop music, an unexpected accompaniment for the rather traditional defense secretary.
''The U.S. and Vietnam, as well as other nations in the region, also share a common interest in maritime security and freedom of access to the global commons,'' Mr. Gates said in his address, in a polite reference to the disputes by many of the region's smaller nations with China over claims to territorial waters.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (87%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); ARMS TRADE (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (72%); HOSTAGE TAKING (70%); FREEDOM OF THE SEAS (64%)

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (94%); HANOI, VIETNAM (92%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%) CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); TAIWAN (94%); VIETNAM (92%); VIET NAM (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2010



310 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 884 words

HEADLINE: Obama Pushes Transportation Spending

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Obama administration said Monday that it would ask the lame-duck Congress next month to approve a $50 billion down payment on his long-range initiative to improve the nation's roads, railways and air systems and to find savings to offset that cost, suggesting a new urgency to create jobs after last week's disappointing unemployment report.
President Obama met at the White House with mayors, governors and current and former transportation secretaries of both parties to promote the infrastructure initiative, which he first proposed in September. Afterward, Ray LaHood, his transportation secretary and a former Republican congressman, told reporters that the lame-duck session would present an ''upfront opportunity'' to pass the $50 billion measure. 
Before then, however, the midterm elections on Nov. 2 are all but certain to expand the size of Mr. Obama's Republican opposition for the new Congress that convenes in January. So Republicans returning later in November for unfinished business are likely to be in no mood to compromise with the White House when they will have the strength of greater numbers in the new year.
Approving $50 billion more for construction projects would be difficult enough, given that many Democrats have shied away from supporting more economic stimulus spending and that Republicans have convinced many voters that Mr. Obama's initial two-year stimulus program, which included roughly $40 billion for transportation projects, failed to create jobs. But trying to agree on offsetting savings also would be contentious.
''This plan will be fully paid for,'' Mr. Obama told reporters in the Rose Garden. ''It will not add to our deficit over time.''
In September, Mr. Obama proposed allocating $50 billion as a short-term step before creating a national infrastructure bank, which would seek public-private partnerships to invest in projects selected on merit and take some decision-making out of the hands of Congress. To raise the $50 billion, he called for ending some tax breaks for the oil industry. White House officials said he would press for action in Congress next year.
Republicans, many of whom are from energy-producing states, oppose such measures, and higher gasoline taxes too.
Mick Cornett, a Republican who is the mayor of Oklahoma City, said after the White House meeting that an administration official indicated that ''they're going to bargain it with the tax cuts in the lame-duck'' session -- suggesting that Mr. Obama might agree to extend the Bush tax cuts temporarily for wealthy taxpayers to get Republicans' support for transportation money.
But administration officials and others at the bipartisan meeting said no one suggested a possible trade-off. The Bush tax rates expire Dec. 31, and Mr. Obama supports extending them for incomes below $250,000 a year, while Republicans want an extension of top rates as well.
''There was never a hint of bargaining off the administration's position on tax cuts for infrastructure,'' said Gov. Edward G. Rendell of Pennsylvania, a Democrat.
Said Norman Y. Mineta, a Democrat who served in Congress and more recently was transportation secretary in the Bush administration, ''The whole issue of financing has not really been thought out.''
In any case, Congress is unlikely to take up new issues after the election.
''We will look for ways to promote jobs, and infrastructure certainly could be one of those ideas,'' said a Democratic leadership aide, speaking on the condition of anonymity. ''But I doubt it will be in the lame duck, and we can't commit to a specific number or plan yet.''
The lame-duck Congress will consider reauthorizing existing transportation programs for a short time because those otherwise expire after Dec. 31. But a six-year reauthorization has been stalled because supporters on the Congressional transportation committees -- including a few Republicans -- say a higher gas tax is needed to maintain America's roads, bridges, transit systems and ports. But most colleagues oppose raising the tax.
''The infrastructure needs are real,'' Mr. Cornett said. ''We can argue about how to pay for it. We spend $50 billion to rebuild Afghanistan. We're reconstructing Kabul and not Philadelphia.''
The administration's decision to seek $50 billion soon instead of waiting until early next year came as a surprise to some at the meeting. But Democrats said it reflected both concern for the economy's weakness and the fact that the lame-duck Congress will probably have more Democratic votes than the new Congress in January.
Last Friday's monthly jobs report confirmed a slowdown in already anemic private-sector hiring, and stoked calls from cities, states, business groups, unions and many economists for more federal help.
Mr. Obama, appearing in the Rose Garden with the other officials after their meeting, brandished a new report from his economic advisers concluding that this is the ''optimal time'' to invest in public works because of high unemployment and lower prices in the construction industry, which has been hit harder than any other by the punctured bubble in housing and commercial real estate.
The report said that 61 percent of new jobs would be in the construction sector, which has an unemployment rate nearly twice the overall national average of 9.6 percent.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama talked about infrastructure investment on Monday in the Rose Garden. Behind him was Ray LaHood, the transportation secretary. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DREW ANGERER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (87%); TAX RELIEF (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); INFRASTRUCTURE (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); JOB CREATION (76%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (72%); FUEL TAX (66%); CONSTRUCTION (66%); GASOLINE (61%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); RAY LAHOOD (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%) OKLAHOMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2010



311 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1090 words

HEADLINE: For Democrats, Even 'Safe' Seats Are Shaky

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

 BODY:
ST. CLAIRSVILLE, Ohio -- Republicans are expanding the battle for the House into districts that Democrats had once considered relatively safe, while Democrats began a strategy of triage on Monday to fortify candidates who they believe stand the best chance of survival.
As Republicans made new investments in at least 10 races across the country, including two Democratic seats here in eastern Ohio, Democratic leaders took steps to pull out of some races entirely or significantly cut their financial commitment in several districts that the party won in the last two election cycles. 
Representatives Steve Driehaus of Ohio, Suzanne M. Kosmas of Florida and Kathy Dahlkemper of Pennsylvania were among the Democrats who learned that they would no longer receive the same infusion of television advertising that party leaders had promised. Party strategists conceded that these races and several others were slipping out of reach.
With three weeks remaining to save its majority, the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee has increased its spending on two New York races, along with at-risk seats in Colorado, Georgia, Illinois, Kentucky and Massachusetts, setting up a map of competitive districts that is starkly different from when the campaign began.
The strategic decisions unfolded at a feverish pace on Monday over an unusually wide playing field of nearly 75 Congressional districts, including here in Ohio, a main battleground in the fight for the House and the Senate. The developments resembled pieces being moved on a giant chess board, with Republicans trying to keep Democrats on the defensive in as many places as possible, while outside groups provided substantial reinforcements for Republicans.
The National Republican Congressional Committee, the party's election arm in the House, can afford to make the new investments because the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and a host of newly formed political organizations have come to the aid of Republican candidates who have far less money than the Democratic incumbents.
Here in St. Clairsville, an Appalachian town on the eastern edge of Ohio, the new investments by Republican groups have become apparent in recent days. Television and radio advertisements are aimed at Representatives Charlie Wilson and Zack Space, both Democrats who were elected in 2006, while new pieces of literature tying the men to President Obama and the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, are arriving in the mail.
The two districts, which come together like long and jagged pieces of a puzzle, are among Ohio's most rural and conservative. Yet even though Senator John McCain carried the region over Mr. Obama in the 2008 presidential race, Republican leaders had initially decided against making major investments because they believed there were greater opportunities elsewhere in the state and because both congressmen had strong connections to the area.
But polls taken for their Republican candidates showed steady signs of promise, party officials said, so over the weekend the national party made an initial expenditure of $350,000 on television commercials in both districts. Democratic strategists believe that the spending is either designed to be a head fake, so they are drawn into spending money on the races, or a signal to outside groups, who are prohibited from coordinating with the party, to begin making their own forays into the contests.
For months, Bill Johnson, the Republican challenger to Mr. Wilson, has drawn little notice and has struggled to raise money. But last week, things began to change.
He was invited to be the guest speaker at a weekly meeting of conservative leaders in Washington that is organized by Grover Norquist, the president of Americans for Tax Reform. Then he appeared on G. Gordon Liddy's radio show, which he said helped his fund-raising efforts, as did an endorsement from Sarah Palin.
''It is a good year to be running as a Republican,'' Mr. Johnson said in an interview on Monday as he drove across the sprawling Sixth District, which stretches 325 miles across 12 counties. ''People are concerned about rising unemployment, spending and the overreaching of the federal government.''
Mr. Johnson, a businessman and retired Air Force officer, has been largely ignored by Mr. Wilson. He has criticized Mr. Wilson for declining to agree to debates. But the race gained attention over the weekend when the Republican committee's advertisements began appearing on television, calling Mr. Wilson ''party line Charlie'' and highlighting his votes in favor of the economic stimulus and health care measures.
The message was amplified in a radio advertisement playing on a country music station here, with Mr. Johnson saying in a chipper voice: ''On Election Day, it's time we say, 'So long, Charlie!' ''
The race is springing to life here just as early voting is entering its second full week. Campaign signs for Mr. Johnson and Mr. Wilson can be found in equal measure in Ohio River towns from Bridgeport to Brilliant to Bellaire.
Mr. Wilson, who through a spokeswoman declined an interview on Monday because he was meeting with newspaper editorial boards in his district, has begun striking back. He argues in his own television advertisements that he stood up to Democratic Party leaders on climate change legislation, which he calls an ''energy tax,'' before closing with a line, ''I'm Charlie Wilson, and I'm fed up.''
The outcome of these Ohio races, along with other contests in the newly expanded Republican battleground, will help determine whether projections of a Republican wave are realized. Democrats dismissed the notion that Republicans were actually expanding the playing field, suggesting that they were looking for new opportunities because efforts to knock out Democratic incumbents have proved difficult.
Ed Good, the chairman of the Belmont County Democratic Party here in St. Clairsville, said voters were angry and frustrated and eager to ''shoot the messenger, if you will.'' A Tea Party rally is scheduled for Thursday on the steps of the courthouse, the latest in a string of events that suggests the political forces may be different for Democrats this year.
''They are going to try to pick off what they think is low-hanging fruit,'' Mr. Good said. ''But the only way Charlie or Zack can lose is if our party does not get out and vote.''
State in Play: Articles in this series are looking at House and Senate races in the battleground state of Ohio and other developments there that highlight the forces shaping politics in the 2010 midterm campaign.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Representative Charlie Wilson, Democrat of Ohio, with Speaker Nancy Pelosi at a news conference about the federal health care overhaul in March. Republican leaders had once decided not to mount a big challenge against Mr. Wilson, but in recent days they have changed their minds. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HARRY HAMBURG/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A20) CHARTS: The Republicans Widen Their Playing Field (Source: Federal Election Commission filings) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); POLITICS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (74%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); RADIO ADVERTISING (69%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (59%); DEMOCRATIC CONGRESSIONAL CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (56%)

PERSON: CHARLES A WILSON (78%); KATHY DAHLKEMPER (58%); STEVE DRIEHAUS (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); NANCY PELOSI (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); SUZANNE KOSMAS (58%); ZACHARY T SPACE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (96%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2010



312 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: Russia Asks Schwarzenegger to Help in a Tough Task

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SCHWIRTZ

 BODY:
SKOLKOVO, Russia -- Perhaps frustrated by what at times can seem like his own one-man effort to bring his unwieldy country into the 21st century, President Dmitri A. Medvedev on Monday turned to a seasoned fighter of government bureaucracy and other dark forces.
Arnold Schwarzenegger, terminator, governor and now, it seems, innovator, was here in this near suburb of Moscow with a delegation of entrepreneurial heavyweights from Silicon Valley, vowing to do what he could to help pump up Mr. Medvedev's efforts to modernize Russia. 
Mr. Medvedev, an avid blogger, who sent Mr. Schwarzenegger greetings via Twitter when he arrived in Moscow on Sunday, has spoken often about the need to fight corruption, lessen government interference in business and allow greater political competition. This, he has said, will help improve Russia's business climate, though the project has been long on eloquent speeches and rather short on action, so far.
Mr. Schwarzenegger, the California governor who, of course, is also known for action films like ''The Terminator,'' joined by executives from Google and other technology companies, called Russia a ''gold mine'' for foreign investors and praised the Russian president as ''a great visionary'' and an ''action president,'' who is on the road to transforming his country -- an effort that, of course, might profit from a little American know-how.
''We want to do what we can as Californians and as Americans because it is in our interest to make Russia successful,'' Mr. Schwarzenegger said. ''We don't see Russia as an enemy. We see Russia as our friend.''
The two men have met before, when Mr. Schwarzenegger was host to Mr. Medvedev on a tour of Silicon Valley this summer.
On Monday, Mr. Schwarzenegger visited the Moscow School of Management, Skolkovo, an experimental business school devised in part by Mr. Medvedev and backed by Russia's business and political elite. Leaders here hope Skolkovo, which held its first graduation ceremonies last month, will eventually become a Russian version of California's Silicon Valley. Billions of dollars have been invested in the business school's futuristic campus, which looks like several haphazardly placed Tetris blocks looming eerily among the bleak Soviet-era apartments just outside Moscow.
Skolkovo has been criticized as a vanity project of the president that is backed by little substance. When Mr. Schwarzenegger apparently strayed from the script at one point during a round-table discussion, asking Skolkovo's powerful backers seated in the room for their ideas, an uncomfortable silence followed until Mr. Medvedev prodded a few muddled sentences out of them.
Real modernization, critics say, will come when the government loosens its grip on the country's key economic levers while battling corruption and diminishing bureaucracy.
Embarrassingly, similar criticism of Skolkovo and Mr. Medvedev's modernization drive was recently leveled in the Russian news media by Andre Geim, a Russian-born scientist who fled Russia's crumbling scientific establishment for the West after the Soviet collapse, and this year won the Nobel Prize in physics for his work at the University of Manchester in England.
Mr. Medvedev acknowledged the critics, but pointed to the country's highly educated population and tremendous resource wealth as the basis for future improvements to be achieved in part with the aid of Silicon Valley.
''We are extremely interested in your colossal experience,'' he told Mr. Schwarzenegger's delegation. ''We are not ashamed to learn and to admit that, unfortunately, we are still behind on many issues. But we expect that our cooperation will bear fruit.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Dmitri A. Medvedev, in a Soviet-built luxury car, with Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKHAIL KLIMENYEV/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS EDUCATION (88%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); CORRUPTION (77%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (72%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (71%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (68%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (66%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (55%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (90%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2010



313 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1030 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Raid May Have Killed British Hostage of Taliban

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS; Alissa J. Rubin contributed reporting from Kabul, Afghanistan.

 BODY:
LONDON -- Prime Minister David Cameron said Monday that a British aid worker killed in an American rescue raid in Afghanistan last week may have been killed by a grenade detonated by a United States special forces unit -- not by a suicide bomber's vest from her Taliban captors, as the American command in Afghanistan suggested when it confirmed her death on Saturday.
A grim-faced Mr. Cameron appeared at a news conference at 10 Downing Street to say he had learned of ''this deeply distressing development'' on Monday from the top American and NATO commander in Afghanistan, Gen. David H. Petraeus, who told him that an American-led review of the raid to rescue the aid worker, Linda Norgrove, ''has revealed evidence to indicate that Linda may not have died at the hands of her captors as originally believed.'' 
Mr. Cameron added: ''That evidence and subsequent interviews with the personnel involved'' -- believed to have included a Navy Seals unit specializing in hostage rescues that has participated in numerous special forces raids in Afghanistan -- ''suggest that Linda could have died as a result of a grenade detonated by the task force during the assault. However, this is not certain and a full U.S./U.K. investigation will now be launched.''
Maj. Sunset Belinsky, a spokeswoman at NATO headquarters in Kabul, said a review of surveillance footage ''showed what was believed to be a member of the rescue team throwing a hand grenade in the area near where Linda Norgrove was later found.''
On Monday American officials in Kabul and at the Central Command Headquarters in Tampa, Fla., announced that a senior officer in the United States Special Operations command, Maj. Gen. Joseph L. Votel, had been appointed to lead an investigation into Ms. Norgrove's death, and that he would work ''in close cooperation'' with British officials.
Ms. Norgrove, 36, who was from a remote area in the western isles of Scotland, was kidnapped by the Taliban in the mountainous eastern province of Kunar on Sept. 26, together with three Afghan companions who were later released. She was working for an American aid organization, Development Alternatives Inc., or DAI, that carries out projects in Afghanistan under contract with the United States Agency for International Development.
Based at DAI offices in the eastern city of Jalalabad, she had set out in an unarmored car, without security guards, to review a project in a part of Kunar that is heavy with Taliban fighters. British officials said that American military intelligence experts working with high-altitude surveillance from unmanned drones had traced the kidnappers and Ms. Norgrove to a mud-walled compound high in the Korangal Valley, which has been the scene of bloody firefights in recent years between the Taliban and American forces.
Mr. Cameron appeared at pains not to sound reproving of American actions in the rescue attempt, in which at least six Taliban fighters were also killed. After Ms. Norgrove's death was announced on Saturday, Mr. Cameron emphasized that the raid had been approved by Britain's foreign secretary, William Hague, and that he had been kept informed.
The raid recalled the operation to free a reporter for The New York Times and his interpreter from Taliban captors in the northern province of Kunduz in September 2009. In that case, the British prime minister at the time, Gordon Brown, approved a raid by British special forces units taken to the hostage hideout by American helicopters, and the reporter, Stephen Farrell, was rescued unharmed.
But the interpreter, Sultan Munadi, was killed in the raid, as were a soldier in Britain's Parachute Regiment and two Afghan civilians.
On Monday, government officials in London disclosed that a multi-agency group led by the prime minister that oversees high-level security operations, had met a dozen times since Ms. Norgrove's kidnapping to review rescue plans and to approve the final plan.
Mr. Hague told the House of Commons that Ms. Norgrove's captors were members of a Salafist group -- an extreme form of Islam -- and that a United States special forces team had been on 30-minute standby to mount a rescue raid from the day Ms. Norgrove was seized.
Beyond defending his own government's approval of the raid, Mr. Cameron appeared eager to pre-empt possible second-guessing from military experts and others in Britain who have been quick to condemn American units for what the critics say is heavy-handedness in counterinsurgency operations, and suggest that Britain's far smaller, less technology-reliant forces bring an experience and battlefield wisdom that the Americans lack.
''I'm clear that the best chance of saving Linda's life was to go ahead, recognizing that any operation was fraught with risk for all those involved, and success could by no means be guaranteed,'' Mr. Cameron said in his Monday statement, adding: ''Linda was taken and held in a part of Afghanistan under U.S. command. That is why this operation was carried out by U.S. forces. From the moment Linda was taken hostage, General Petraeus has treated her as if she was a U.S. citizen. He and U.S. forces did everything in their power to bring Linda home safely.''
Mr. Cameron said ''those on the ground and in London'' had approved the raid, in part, because they feared Ms. Norgrove ''was going to be passed up the terrorist chain, which would increase further the already high risk that she would be killed.''
''We should also remember that ultimately the responsibility for Linda's death lies with those who took her hostage,'' at a remote location high in the mountains, he said.
Mr. Cameron said that he had spoken with Ms. Norgrove's father, John, who had issued a video appeal with his wife, Lorna, for the continuation of negotiations for their daughter's release -- negotiations that Mr. Hague, the foreign secretary, said Monday had never reached ''a serious stage.''
Senior British officials said the Norgroves were aware that a rescue attempt was a possibility but had not been asked for their approval. Speaking from his home on the Isle of Lewis after Mr. Cameron's statement, Mr. Norgrove said only, ''We might issue a statement in another day or two.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The death of the aid worker, Linda Norgrove, in Afghanistan is being investigated. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Prime Minister David Cameron said an American grenade may have killed a British aid worker. (POOL PHOTO BY KIRSTY WIGGLESWORTH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); TALIBAN (90%); DEATHS (90%); HOSTAGE TAKING (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (89%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); TERRORISM (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (78%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (78%); UNMANNED MILITARY AIRCRAFT (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (64%); MOUNTAINS (60%)

COMPANY: DEVELOPMENT ALTERNATIVES INC (63%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8748 BUSINESS CONSULTING SERVICES, NEC (63%)

PERSON: DAVID CAMERON (91%); DAVID PETRAEUS (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); JALALABAD, AFGHANISTAN (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); SCOTLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2010



314 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1069 words

HEADLINE: A Foreclosure Tightrope for Democrats

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The swelling outcry over fast-and-loose foreclosures has thrust the Obama administration back into the uncomfortable position of sheltering the banking industry from the demands of an angry public.
While senior Congressional Democrats join the calls for a national moratorium on foreclosures, the White House once again is arguing against punishing the industry, just as it did in 2009 amid the outcry over the unbreakable habit of paying large bonuses.
''Irresponsible banks need to be held accountable, but if we have not found a problem with a bank's process we do not believe that we should impose a moratorium where that can hurt the market and hurt individual buyers,'' said Shaun Donovan, secretary of Housing and Urban Development. 
The administration's basic logic has not changed since it took office in the depths of the financial crisis: Hitting the financial industry, officials argue in private and in public, hurts the broader economy. A moratorium on foreclosures may provide short-term political satisfaction in an overheated election climate, but the administration fears it will only delay the inevitable and necessary process of forcing many Americans out of homes they cannot afford.
The intramural argument among Democrats also reflects the political divisions between an administration with two years to improve the economy, and members of Congress facing an angry electorate in less than a month.
The White House can focus on the eventual economic benefits of foreclosures. But Senator Harry Reid, the Nevada Democrat battling to salvage re-election in the state with the nation's highest foreclosure rate, cannot. The result is that Mr. Reid favors a moratorium, and the White House finds itself in an uncomfortable moment of agreement with his Republican opponents.
The latest foreclosure firestorm flared in mid-September when GMAC, a major mortgage lender, announced that it was suspending home seizures in 23 states in light of revelations that the company had not been taking basic steps to double-check and demonstrate its right to seize particular homes.
Bank of America leapfrogged that position last week, announcing that it would stop pursuing foreclosures in all 50 states while reviewing its procedures.
That prompted calls from a wide range of politicians for a national moratorium on all foreclosures, including from Mr. Reid, who released a letter to other lenders urging the rest of the industry to follow Bank of America's example.
The industry has argued in response that problems should be addressed without halting all foreclosures, because a moratorium would damage the economy. ''It must be recognized that the mortgage market, investors and the health of the economy are all interrelated,'' Tim Ryan, president of the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association, said Monday.
The White House shares those concerns, and it has tried to defuse the issue by arguing that problems can be addressed without imposing a moratorium.
''There are, in fact, valid foreclosures that probably should go forward,'' David Axelrod, a senior White House adviser, said Sunday on CBS.
Administration officials argue in part that the problems that have emerged in recent weeks do not change the fact that lenders are seeking to foreclose on people who borrowed and then failed to repay. Most of the identified problems are best described as technicalities, not miscarriages of justice.
Advocates for homeowners, however, say that the pattern of sloppiness allows and encourages more serious abuses. They point to a growing number of documented cases in which lenders mistakenly seized homes.
Bank of America apologized last month for foreclosing on a home in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. The homeowner didn't even have a mortgage. The bank had failed to notice that the previous owner had repaid the mortgage loan.
Last year the company's contractors entered the home of a Pittsburgh woman, changed the locks, cut off the utilities and seized her pet parrot. The bank later acknowledged that the woman had not missed any mortgage payments.
Other companies including Citigroup and JPMorgan Chase also have apologized for mistaken attempts to seize homes they didn't own.
Dozens of people have sued lenders charging that their homes were foreclosed even after the lender agreed to a loan modification or repayment plan.
''We need to end the voluntary reliance on the industry to do the right thing with respect to homeowners,'' said John Taylor, chief executive of the National Community Reinvestment Coalition.
Mr. Taylor noted that foreclosures also damaged the economy.
The administration's defense of a process that is throwing many Americans out of their homes echoes its tightrope walk in the spring of 2009, when public anger over Wall Street pay was at a boiling point. The president excoriated the industry in public interviews, and met with executives to caution against large paydays and to press for increased lending. But the administration resisted legislation to force changes in either area.
President Obama told executives at the time that his administration was the bulwark between their industry and the public's anger.
Now the administration is again seeking to demonstrate its concern over industry practices without taking steps that it fears will damage the economy.
Mr. Obama last week decided not to sign a bill requiring many states to lower their standards for verifying the legitimacy of notarized documents. Mr. Axelrod said that the legislation, which drew fire from state officials after sailing through Congress, would have ''made it easier to make mistakes'' in foreclosures.
Mr. Donovan said that the problems identified so far were serious and widespread, and that it was necessary for companies including GMAC and Bank of America to suspend foreclosures while they addressed those problems.
He said that his agency and other parts of the government, including banking regulators, were scrutinizing other mortgage companies for evidence of problems.
''We are doing everything we can through a range of enforcement powers to make sure that we find where there are problems,'' he said. ''We're going to act very swiftly and very strongly to protect homeowners.''
But Mr. Donovan said it did not make sense to act against companies absent evidence of problems. He said such a step would hurt not just the companies, but also people waiting to buy the foreclosed homes.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''There are, in fact, valid foreclosures that probably should go forward,'' said David Axelrod, an adviser to the president. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); POLITICS (72%); CITIES (54%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: HARRY REID (78%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); DAVID AXELROD (58%); TIM RYAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2010



315 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: Economists Share Nobel For Studying Job Market

BYLINE: By CATHERINE RAMPELL; Sewell Chan contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Peter A. Diamond, a nominee for a Federal Reserve Board position, and two other economists were awarded the 2010 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Science on Monday for their work on markets where buyers and sellers have difficulty finding each other.
The work of the winners, Professor Diamond of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Dale T. Mortensen of Northwestern University and Christopher A. Pissarides of the London School of Economics, is best known for its applications to the job market. 
The researchers spent decades trying to understand why it takes so long for people to find jobs, even in good economic times, and why so many people can be unemployed even when many jobs are available.
Traditional economics, after all, would predict that wages should simply drop, helping the labor supply to meet labor demand automatically and sweeping jobless workers into whatever positions were immediately open.
These researchers' explanation addresses the complications that come from searching for jobs and job candidates: it takes time for unemployed workers to be matched with the proper opening, since people are not identical, cookie-cutter units, and neither are jobs.
While all this may seem intuitive, in the 1970s it was considered quite radical. The resulting insights about how search costs can affect markets also helped revolutionize not only labor economics, but fields like public finance and housing economics as well. The work is especially relevant today, as policy makers try to understand and combat the causes of stubbornly high unemployment in countries like the United States.
In a phone interview, Professor Diamond, 70, said that one of the implications of his work was that more fiscal and monetary stimulus was probably necessary to speed up job growth.
''The slower it happens, the more workers lose their skills and stop searching, and so the process goes more poorly after that,'' Professor Diamond said.
President Obama nominated Professor Diamond in April for a Fed board position, where he would serve under his former student, Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed chairman. But in August, under an obscure procedural rule, the Senate sent Mr. Diamond's nomination back to the White House before starting its summer recess, and a senator questioned his experience.
President Obama renominated Professor Diamond for the Fed position on Sept. 13. A hearing on his confirmation is still to come.
The work honored Monday also suggests that policies intended to help workers can have unintended consequences. Unemployment benefits, for example, can prolong joblessness by making it less costly to be without work.
''That's a big controversy in the U.S. recently,'' said Robert Shimer, an economics professor at the University of Chicago . ''Most of these models suggest that even in a depressed economy, more generous unemployment benefits tend to raise the unemployment rate. Benefits are obviously good for the unemployed, but there are some clear tradeoffs.''
The models help explain why European labor markets tend to be much more rigid than American ones, where people can move from job to job relatively easily, at least in good times.
''Many European countries put restrictions on the ability of firms to hire and fire,'' said Lawrence F. Katz, a Harvard economist. ''If you make it harder to hire and fire, then you end up with what's called a sclerotic labor market, with less movement between jobs and more long-term unemployment.''
Europe's struggles in the 1970s and 1980s with an underclass of chronically unemployed workers helped inspire Professor Pissarides, 62, a Cyprus native, to study the search costs of labor markets in the first place, he said.
Monday's announcement also played into current debates about the government's role in addressing long-term unemployment and about whether the elevated unemployment levels today represent a ''new normal.''
''I think the economy is very adaptive,'' Professor Diamond said in a news conference at M.I.T. ''Workers and employers will adapt to what will make the economy function. I see no reason why, once we get fully over this, we won't go back to normal times,'' with more ''normal'' unemployment rates.
Professor Mortensen, 71, of Northwestern, said additional measures to get credit functioning more normally, and in particular to make it easier for small businesses to get loans, were crucial to reducing unemployment.
''From my perspective the problem right now is not the labor market,'' he said during a phone call with reporters. ''What's happening in the labor market is a symptom of more complicated problems with the financial market.''
The line of research begun by the three Nobel laureates is still active today. ''Search theory'' has been applied to many other areas, like money systems and venture capital markets -- really, any market that can be considered heterogeneous.
''Which is most markets,'' said Robert E. Hall, a Stanford economist, ''except for maybe things like grain.''
Justin Wolfers, a University of Pennsylvania economist, has applied the theory in his own work on marriage and divorce, for example.
''Labor economists think about firing costs, and family economists think about divorce costs,'' Professor Wolfers said. Just as restrictions on firing an employee make fewer workers available for new positions -- and therefore make companies skittish about making too many changes to their work force -- low divorce rates can be self-perpetuating. With divorces rare, unhappy spouses may think twice about getting a divorce themselves, since there would be so few eligible new mates available.
While the applications of Professor Diamond's Nobel-winning work are broad, his practical experience was questioned this year when he was nominated for the Fed governor position.
In August, Senator Richard C. Shelby, Republican of Alabama, said Professor Diamond did not have enough experience for the position. The Web site CqPolitics.com quoted him as saying, ''I do not believe that the current environment of uncertainty would benefit from policy decisions made by board members who are learning on the job.''
It is believed that Senate Republicans will ultimately not try a filibuster to block Professor Diamond now that he has been renominated. (His nomination was said to have been initially blocked in retaliation for a refusal by Democrats to give a full 14-year term to Randall S. Kroszner, who served on the Fed board from 2006 to 2009.)
If confirmed, Professor Diamond would complete a 14-year term that expires on Feb. 1, 2014.
The Nobel in economic science is awarded by the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences and is not one of the original prizes created by Alfred Nobel. In addition to a medal and a diploma, the laureates collectively will receive 10 million Swedish kronor, or about $1.5 million.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PETER A. DIAMOND, Massachusetts Institute of Technology. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KELVIN MA/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)
DALE T. MORTENSEN, Northwestern University. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REUTERS)
 CHRISTOPHER PISSARIDES, the London School of Economics. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SIMON DAWSON/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); AWARDS & PRIZES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); NOBEL PRIZES (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); US PRESIDENTS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (84%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (83%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2010



316 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: Races Span the Spectrum From Odd to More So

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Revelations that Rich Iott, a Republican Congressional candidate from Ohio, once whiled away time dressing up as a Nazi have not been fortunate for his candidacy. He has been abandoned by a prominent member of his party, castigated by critics and may well be doomed as a politician.
Let the political scholars debate whether this is the most contentious, partisan midterm election in modern memory, as some insist. But there is widespread agreement that it is certainly among the strangest. 
Across the scores of House races across the country, there have been small set-tos, like whether Kristi Noem, the Republican candidate for South Dakota's House seat, has too many traffic citations.
Then there are races with larger reverberations, like the contentious Senate race in Nevada. The battle between Senator Harry Reid, the Democratic majority leader, whose constituents appear sour or at least unenthused about him, and an opponent who suggested that Islamic law may take over a Michigan city, is ripping apart the political fabric of the state.
Political polarization, primary upsets and the Tea Party movement have combined to make this a most unusual year.
''The craziness has always been there in the ranks of American politics,'' said Bruce Cain, a professor of political science at the University of California, Berkeley. ''Until the 1960s, party bosses and elites filtered out the loonies in favor of the loyal foot soldiers, party hacks, relatives and the occasional talented person.''
But, he said, ''with the demise of hometown papers and the rise of the Internet, cable and talk radio, the new filters are way more porous.''
While some Tea Party candidates have provided unintentional entertainment -- odd remarks and hobbies, financial problems, reclusiveness -- Democrats have by no means come up empty.
For instance, if you are the Democratic candidate for a Senate seat and your state party declines to list your name on its Web site, this is inauspicious.
''Um, well, when he got indicted our chairman decided to take him off our Web site,'' said Keiana Page, a spokeswoman for the South Carolina Democratic Party, referring to Alvin Greene, the unemployed candidate who now faces Senator Jim DeMint, a Republican running for re-election.
Mr. Greene was indicted on one count of ''disseminating, procuring or promoting obscenity'' and is accused of showing pornographic material to a female college student. ''Before we can throw our support Greene's way,'' Ms. Page said, ''we are asking him to get his legal issues resolved.''
Mr. Greene, in a telephone interview, was undaunted.
''I've been going out around the state letting people know that DeMint started the recession,'' he said, though he could not recall any counties he has visited. (''What does it matter? What matters is DeMint started the recession.'')
Let none forget Bob Etheridge, the Democratic congressman from North Carolina who smacked at a camera being wielded by a student inquiring about his campaign positions.
In the meta-weird category is the race to fill President Obama's former Senate seat -- currently held by Roland W. Burris, who was appointed to the seat by Gov. Rod R. Blagojevich of Illinois after the governor's arrest. That race is being fought between Alexi Giannoulias, a 34-year-old Democrat, whose family bank is accused of making loans to convicted felons, and Mark Steven Kirk, a Republican, who has admitted to embellishing his military accomplishments.
Follow? Let's move on to political advertisements.
The one featuring the Senate candidate assuring voters she is not a witch (Christine O'Donnell, from Delaware) was more momentous than the one with a candidate for Minnesota governor citing his ex-wife's restraining order against him as a selling point. But this is only because an Independence Party candidate in Minnesota, Rob Hahn, flamed out in the primary.
In Nevada, the Senate race has become almost a metaphor for the embattled state. Many prominent Republicans have declined to endorse the Tea Party candidate, Sharron Angle, causing some to attack one another publicly and ignoring the party's tradition of unity come campaign time.
The ugly ad wars and the frequent unorthodox remarks of Ms. Angle, like her recent suggestion that Dearborn, Mich., and Frankford, Tex., are under threat of Sharia law, have brought an unwelcome focus to Nevada, which has spent years trying to become an important swing state.
Some political experts argue that it is partisanship that explains this year's nutty flavor.
''In the mid-1990s, I foolishly thought political polarization could not be worse than it was,'' said William Galston, a policy adviser in the Clinton administration and elections expert for the Brookings Institution. ''The center has disappeared.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Alvin Greene, a Democrat, is facing the Republican incumbent, Jim DeMint, in the race for a Senate seat from South Carolina. Mr. Greene has been indicted on obscenity charges. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MELISSA CHERRY/THE HERALD, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Rich Iott, a Congressional candidate, has been photographed dressed as a Nazi.
 Representative Bob Etheridge smacked at a camera after being asked about his positions. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL CANDIDATES (91%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); INTERVIEWS (73%); RELIGION (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); PORNOGRAPHY (69%); INTERNET & WWW (69%); WEB SITES (66%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (64%); OBSCENITY (64%); INDICTMENTS (61%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (55%)

PERSON: JIM DEMINT (78%); KRISTI NOEM (58%); BOB ETHERIDGE (58%); HARRY REID (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2010



317 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1437 words

HEADLINE: The States vs. Wall St.

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POWELL

 BODY:
COLUMBUS, Ohio -- Back East, at the corner of Broad and Wall Streets, the view is swell. The Dow is soaring, and bankers look pleased.
But here on East Broad Street, the mood is gloomier. At least 90,000 residential and commercial foreclosure notices will be filed in Ohio this year. Pension funds for teachers, secretaries and janitors have suffered grave losses. And multitudes of the unemployed in Ohio now speak of turning to prayer.
Ohio's attorney general, Richard Cordray, might be seen as their pinstriped avenger.
''There's a belief here that Wall Street is a fixed casino and it's back in business, and we're left holding the bag,'' said Mr. Cordray, whose office overlooks East Broad. ''It's important for us to show we'll go after a company that does wrong.'' 
Mr. Cordray in two years in office has demonstrated a willingness to sue early and often, filing lawsuits against global financial houses, rating agencies, subprime lenders and foreclosure scammers. He has wrested about $2 billion so far, a string of gilded pelts: a $475 million Merrill Lynch settlement, $400 million from Marsh & McLennan and $725 million from the American International Group.
Last week, he filed suit against GMAC Mortgage, accusing the loan servicer of filing fraudulent affidavits in hundreds of Ohio foreclosures.
His office has returned money to investors, pension funds, schools and cities. And he has directed millions to agencies fighting foreclosure.
''We see what Washington doesn't: the houses lying vacant, the eyesore stripped for copper piping with mattresses out back,'' Mr. Cordray says. ''We bailed out irresponsible banks, but we forgot about everyone else.''
It speaks to this political age that such words are more rarely heard from federal regulators, who walk quietly and carry big bailout checks. Instead state attorneys general, in this case, a sandy-haired 51-year-old Democrat who sits about 400 miles from Washington, are giving full throat to popular outrage.
If Eliot Spitzer, the former New York attorney general, was the prototype of this breed, a handful of current ones, like Mr. Cordray, Martha Coakley of Massachusetts, Lisa Madigan of Illinois, Tom Miller of Iowa and Roy Cooper of North Carolina, lay claim to his mantle. Like recessionary scouts, they spot trouble, like a rapacious foreclosure-rescue operator, a predatory credit card company or a financial firm draining a pension fund.
Ms. Coakley secured millions of dollars in mortgage modifications from Countrywide Financial and reached a $102 million settlement with Morgan Stanley over its role in financing the subprime loans that fed the housing crash in Massachusetts.
''We were the first to go after predatory loans -- we're not waiting for federal agencies to act,'' Ms. Coakley said.
Some express skepticism, suggesting that such lawsuits are emotionally pleasing but economically destructive. Former Senator Michael DeWine, a Republican who is running against Mr. Cordray, a Democrat, in the November election, has implied that Mr. Cordray wields an antibusiness cudgel. Better to rely on federal regulators, others argue, to constrain global corporations.
That strikes James E. Tierney, director of the National State Attorneys General Program at Columbia, as a bit beside the point.
''Is state action as effective as a federal regulator going after these companies? Absolutely not,'' says Mr. Tierney, a former state attorney general for Maine. ''But when regulators are too worried about giving offense, there's no reason an enterprising attorney general can't go in there,''
Born in Grove City, Ohio, Mr. Cordray was educated at Michigan State, Oxford and the University of Chicago Law School. A Supreme Court clerk, he also argued cases before the court. In 1987, he enjoyed a run as a five-time winner on the television show ''Jeopardy!''
Somewhere along the way, he hankered for more. His father ran a program for mentally disabled people; his mother, a social worker, founded an organization of foster grandparents; and he wanted to enter the public sphere. Mr. Cordray began running for office.
His yearning often went unrequited; voters, he noted with a hike of the eyebrows, elected him state representative but rejected his run for Congress and an early attempt at state attorney general.
He shrugs.
''I really got my head pounded in over the years in politics,'' Mr. Cordray says. ''My wife thought I was nuts.''
Eventually, he downsized his ambitions, and ran successfully for Franklin County treasurer and later for state treasurer. And in 2008, he won a special election for attorney general.
Mr. Cordray is no William Jennings Bryan inveighing against the evils of monopoly capital. He can be eloquent about corporate misbehavior, in an eyes-downcast and soft-spoken fashion. (His language reads hotter on the page than it sounds in person.)
He is, however, tapping a populist tradition in Ohio. This is where politicians mounted challenges to the Standard Oil monopoly of John Rockefeller and where Senator John Sherman led a late 19th-century campaign to pass the Sherman Antitrust Act, which was the first law to require the federal government to investigate companies suspected of running cartels and monopolies.
Mr. Cordray carefully describes his allegiance to capitalism, although he says the financial crisis should explode forever the efficient-markets theory, popular with economists, that the best market is a self-correcting one. (Adam Smith's ''Wealth of Nations'' shares space on his office bookshelf with books by the urbane Keynesian John Kenneth Galbraith.)
''The notion that banks will just get things right over time is perhaps true,'' Mr. Cordray says. ''But over what time period, and at what terrible cost to the individual American?''
Certainly, he has not minced words in pursuing a steady stream of cases against corporations.
He accused Marsh & McLennan of conspiring to eliminate competition in the insurance business by generating fictitious quotes. He denounced three credit rating firms, Fitch Ratings, Moody's Investor Services and Standard & Poor's, for giving inflated ratings to packages of troubled mortgages put together by the big investment houses. He says that Ohio pension funds lost close to half a billion dollars by investing in those triple-A rated securities.
And last October, he accused Bank of America officials of concealing critical facts in the acquisition of Merrill Lynch, even as that firm careened toward insolvency. Top bankers, he said, had not come remotely clean about the extent of the losses at Merrill and its bonuses.
The lawsuit against Bank of America was the first of its kind, although Mr. Cordray's actions drew rather less press than a lawsuit filed months later by Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo of New York. Mr. Cuomo, whose skill with the tactical leak, news release and the lawsuit is considerable, tends not to work closely with his fellow state attorneys general, say two officials from states other than Ohio.
Attorneys general are perhaps more successful at extracting large sums of money than in changing corporate behavior. A Goldman Sachs or Marsh & McLennan, to this view, tends to see such settlements as a cost of doing business.
''The settlements are large, but the changes in behavior don't seem to be that large,'' said Daniel C. Richman, a former federal prosecutor and professor at Columbia Law School. ''These targets have massive amounts of money to pay off and continue on their merry way.''
Raise this criticism to Mr. Cordray and he nods in agreement.
''In an ideal world, if the S.E.C. had done its job, that would be much better,'' he said. ''Our settlements make up for the losses fractionally.''
As it happens, Mr. Cordray now faces a more existential threat. Legal challenges to corporate misbehavior are not proven electoral gold. This year, Ms. Coakley, a Democrat, fell to Republican Scott Brown in a race to fill the Senate seat of Edward M. Kennedy.
And polls show Mr. Cordray running behind in his race with Mr. DeWine. He's no natural glad-hander -- he apologizes when he realizes he has automatically extended his hand at a luncheon. More paradoxical, he finds himself at risk of being identified with ''them,'' which is to say the establishment that Ohio residents view as having failed them.
Again, he shrugs. He is not inclined to blame voters for his troubles.
''Politicians are kind of like adolescents, always looking in the mirror and assuming that's what people see,'' he says. ''But there's a great anxiety out there, a great unease about our future. Most people are hurting, and they don't have the time to pay attention to us.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Richard Cordray, Ohio attorney general, has reached several major settlements related to the financial crisis. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL HOUGHTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
The attorneys general Martha Coakley, left, of Massachusetts, Lisa Madigan of Illinois and Tom Miller of Iowa. They, like Richard Cordray, left, of Ohio, are cut from a mold like that of Eliot Spitzer, and give full throat to popular outrage. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CAROLYN KASTER/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 MICHAEL HOUGHTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION FUNDS (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); LITIGATION (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PREDATORY LENDING (89%); SUBPRIME LENDING (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (88%); BAILOUTS (87%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (76%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); FAIR LENDING (72%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (71%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (65%); CREDIT CARDS (65%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (67%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (55%); MARSH & MCLENNAN COS INC (55%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (67%); 8685 (TSE) (67%); MS (NYSE) (55%); MMC (NYSE) (55%); MHM (LSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (67%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (67%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (55%)

PERSON: RICHARD CORDRAY (90%); MARTHA COAKLEY (89%); LISA MADIGAN (55%); ELIOT SPITZER (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (89%) OHIO, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2010



318 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1614 words

HEADLINE: Offshore Wind Power Line Wins Praise, and Backing

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Google and a New York financial firm have each agreed to invest heavily in a proposed $5 billion transmission backbone for future offshore wind farms along the Atlantic Seaboard that could ultimately transform the region's electrical map.
The 350-mile underwater spine, which could remove some critical obstacles to wind power development, has stirred excitement among investors, government officials and environmentalists who have been briefed on it.
Google and Good Energies, an investment firm specializing in renewable energy, have each agreed to take 37.5 percent of the equity portion of the project. They are likely to bring in additional investors, which would reduce their stakes.
If they hold on to their stakes, that would come to an initial investment of about $200 million apiece in the first phase of construction alone, said Robert L. Mitchell, the chief executive of Trans-Elect, the Maryland-based transmission-line company that proposed the venture. 
Marubeni, a Japanese trading company, has taken a 15 percent stake. Trans-Elect said it hoped to begin construction in 2013.
Several government officials praised the idea underlying the project as ingenious, while cautioning that they could not prejudge the specifics.
''Conceptually it looks to me to be one of the most interesting transmission projects that I've ever seen walk through the door,'' said Jon Wellinghoff, the chairman of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, which oversees interstate electricity transmission. ''It provides a gathering point for offshore wind for multiple projects up and down the coast.''
Industry experts called the plan promising, but warned that as a first-of-a-kind effort, it was bound to face bureaucratic delays and could run into unforeseen challenges, from technology problems to cost overruns. While several undersea electrical cables exist off the Atlantic Coast already, none has ever picked up power from generators along the way.
The system's backbone cable, with a capacity of 6,000 megawatts, equal to the output of five large nuclear reactors, would run in shallow trenches on the seabed in federal waters 15 to 20 miles offshore, from northern New Jersey to Norfolk, Va. The notion would be to harvest energy from turbines in an area where the wind is strong but the hulking towers would barely be visible.
Trans-Elect estimated that construction would cost $5 billion, plus financing and permit fees. The $1.8 billion first phase, a 150-mile stretch from northern New Jersey to Rehoboth Beach, Del., could go into service by early 2016, it said. The rest would not be completed until 2021 at the earliest.
Richard L. Needham, the director of Google's green business operations group, called the plan ''innovative and audacious.''
''It is an opportunity to kick-start this industry and, long term, provide a way for the mid-Atlantic states to meet their renewable energy goals,'' he said.
Yet even before any wind farms were built, the cable would channel existing supplies of electricity from southern Virginia, where it is cheap, to northern New Jersey, where it is costly, bypassing one of the most congested parts of the North American electric grid while lowering energy costs for northern customers.
Generating electricity from offshore wind is far more expensive than relying on coal, natural gas or even onshore wind. But energy experts anticipate a growing demand for the offshore turbines to meet state requirements for greater reliance on local renewable energy as a clean alternative to fossil fuels.
Four connection points -- in southern Virginia, Delaware, southern New Jersey and northern New Jersey -- would simplify the job of bringing the energy onshore, involving fewer permit hurdles. In contrast to transmission lines on land, where a builder may have to deal with hundreds of property owners, this project would have to deal with a maximum of just four, and fewer than that in its first phase.
Ultimately the system, known as the Atlantic Wind Connection, could make building a wind farm offshore far simpler and cheaper than it looks today, experts said.
Environmentalists who have been briefed on the plan were enthusiastic. Melinda Pierce, the deputy director for national campaigns at the Sierra Club, said she had campaigned against proposed transmission lines that would carry coal-fired energy around the country, but would favor this one, with its promise of tapping the potential of offshore wind.
''These kinds of audacious ideas might just be what we need to break through the wretched logjam,'' she said.
Projects like Cape Wind, proposed for shallow waters just off Cape Cod in Massachusetts, met with fierce objections from residents who felt it would mar the ocean vista. But sponsors of the Trans-Elect project insist that the mid-Atlantic turbines would have less of a visual impact.
The hurdles facing the project have more to do with administrative procedures than with engineering problems or its economic merit, several experts said.
By the time the Interior Department could issue permits for such a line, for example, the federal subsidy program for wind will have expired in 2012, said Willett M. Kempton, a professor at the School of Marine Science and Policy at the University of Delaware and the author of several papers on offshore wind.
Another is that PJM Interconnection, the regional electricity group that would have to approve the project and assess its member utilities for the cost, has no integrated procedure for calculating the value of all three tasks the line would accomplish -- hooking up new power generation, reducing congestion on the grid and improving reliability.
And elected officials in Virginia have in the past opposed transmission proposals that would tend to average out pricing across the mid-Atlantic states, possibly raising their constituents' costs.
But the lure of Atlantic wind is very strong. The Atlantic Ocean is relatively shallow even tens of miles from shore, unlike the Pacific, where the sea floor drops away steeply. Construction is also difficult on the Great Lakes because their waters are deep and they freeze, raising the prospect of moving ice sheets that could damage a tower.
Nearly all of the East Coast governors, Republican and Democratic, have spoken enthusiastically about coastal wind and have fought proposals for transmission lines from the other likely wind source, the Great Plains.
''From Massachusetts down to Virginia, the governors have signed appeals to the Senate not to do anything that would lead to a high-voltage grid that would blanket the country and bring in wind from the Dakotas,'' said James J. Hoecker, a former chairman of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, who now is part of a nonprofit group that represents transmission owners.
He described an Atlantic transmission backbone as ''a necessary piece of what the Eastern governors have been talking about in terms of taking advantage of offshore wind.''
So far only one offshore wind project, Bluewater Wind off Delaware, has sought permission to build in federal waters. The company is seeking federal loan guarantees to build 293 to 450 megawatts of capacity, but the timing of construction remains uncertain.
Executives with that project said the Atlantic backbone was an interesting idea, in part because it would foster development of a supply chain for the specialized parts needed for offshore wind.
Interior Secretary Ken Salazar, whose agency would have to sign off on the project, has spoken approvingly of wind energy and talked about the possibility of an offshore ''backbone.'' In a speech this month, he emphasized that the federal waters were ''controlled by the secretary,'' meaning him.
Within three miles of the shore, control is wielded by the state. Nonetheless, if the offshore wind farms are built on a vast scale, the project's sponsors say, a backbone with just four connection points could expedite the approval process.
In fact, if successful, the transmission spine would reduce the regulatory burden on subsequent projects, said Mr. Mitchell, the Trans-Elect chief executive.
Mr. Kempton of the University of Delaware and Mr. Wellinghoff of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission said the backbone would offer another plus: reducing one of wind power's big problems, variability of output.
''Along the U.S. Atlantic seaboard, we tend to have storm tracks that move along the coast and somewhat offshore,'' Mr. Kempton said.
If storm winds were blowing on Friday off Virginia, they might be off Delaware by Saturday and off New Jersey by Sunday, he noted. Yet the long spine would ensure that the amount of energy coming ashore held roughly constant.
Wind energy becomes more valuable when it is more predictable; if predictable enough, it could replace some land-based generation altogether, Mr. Kempton said.
But the economics remain uncertain, he warned, For now, he said, the biggest impediment may be that the market price of offshore wind energy is about 50 percent higher than that of energy generated on land.
With a change in market conditions -- an increase in the price of natural gas, for example, or the adoption of a tax on emissions of carbon dioxide from coal- or gas-generated electricity -- that could change, he said.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 14, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Tuesday about a proposal to build a transmission line off the mid-Atlantic Seaboard that would harvest energy from future offshore wind farms misstated the size of the investment stake that Marubeni, a Japanese trading firm, has taken in the $5 billion venture. It is 15 percent, not 10 percent.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Opponents and supporters of a wind power project at Woods Hole, Mass., earlier this year. Developers of a new Atlantic project say they hope their proposal will meet less opposition. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JULIA CUMES/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A3) MAP: Seizing the Wind: Google and Good Energies have proposed building a 350-mile underwater transmission line that could carry as much as 6,000 megawatts of electricity from wind farms off the Mid-Atlantic coast. (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIND ENERGY (92%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (90%); WIND POWER PLANTS (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (76%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); POWER & COMMUNICATION SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (73%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (72%); ENERGY REGULATION (72%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (71%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (71%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (85%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION (54%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2010



319 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
CHINESE CANCEL MEETING
Over Nobel Peace Prize
China abruptly called off a Shanghai meeting with a Norwegian minister in retaliation for Friday's award of the Nobel Peace Prize to the imprisoned dissident Liu Xiaobo, a Norwegian official said. PAGE A10
WAR-CRIME SUSPECT HELD 
French police officers arrested a Rwandan believed to be a leader of a movement involved in a recent terrorist campaign in the Kivu region of Congo in which thousands of civilians have been raped and killed. PAGE A6
National
OBAMA SEEKS $50 BILLION FOR TRANSPORTATION
The Obama administration said that it would ask the lame-duck Congress next month to approve a $50 billion down payment on his long-range initiative to improve the nation's roads, railways and air systems and to find savings to offset that cost, suggesting a new urgency to create jobs after last week's disappointing unemployment report. PAGE A13
WIDENING THE FIELD
Republicans are expanding the battle for the House into districts that Democrats had once considered relatively safe, while Democrats began a strategy of triage to fortify candidates who they believe stand the best chance of survival. PAGE A12
SEVERING TIES WITH PBS
KCET in Los Angeles is preparing to cut ties with PBS at the end of the year, when it will become the largest independent television station in the country that will leave the nation's second largest city, already without an N.F.L. franchise to call its own, without a major PBS station either. PAGE A12
New York
MILITARY-GRADE EXPLOSIVES
Found in Cemetery
A volunteer discovered a decaying garbage bag in an East Village cemetery filled with eight bricks of military-grade C-4 explosives, about the same amount used in the 2005 London subway bombings, the police commissioner said. Page A21
Business
SUPREME COURT TO HEAR
Case on Safety of Vaccines
The safety of vaccines is at the heart of a case expected to be heard by the United States Supreme Court, one that could have implications for hundreds of lawsuits that contend there is a link between vaccines and autism. PAGE B1
ANGER OVER FORECLOSURES
The swelling outcry over fast-and-loose foreclosures has thrust the Obama administration back into the uncomfortable position of sheltering the banking industry from the demands of public anger. News Analysis. PAGE B1
RUSSIA'S REACTOR BID
The Russian nuclear industry has profited handsomely from building reactors in developing countries. Now it is testing the prospect of becoming a major supplier to the European Union, too. PAGE B11
PUSHING DEEPER DISCOUNTS
Campaigns for stores, from giant chains to mom-and-pops, are promoting sales that are frequently expressed in percentages off regular prices. Twenty or 25 percent off, once considered a hefty discount, is practically nothing nowadays, as most consumers must be enticed further to open their wallets or purses. Advertising. PAGE B3
Obituaries
MAURICE ALLAIS, 99
He won the Nobel in economic science in 1988 for his influential insights into markets, risk, interest rates and myriad other economic phenomena. PAGE A23
Sports
AN N.F.L. SEASON
Dominated by Parity
Parity is the smiley-face word for what has taken hold of the N.F.L. this season, but if Pete Rozelle's vision was for well-played games that would make the any-given-Sunday ethos scintillating, the 2010 version of parity is something else altogether. It looks a lot more like mediocrity right now, with every team patiently waiting for its own day of dysfunction. N.F.L. Fast Forward. PAGE B15
Arts
A WASHINGTON ELECTION
Without Votes
The Kennedy Center Honors have celebrated lifetime achievements in the performing arts for 32 years, and there have been popular telecasts and White House receptions. But the selection of Oprah Winfrey as one of the five honorees this year, despite her relatively modest resume as a performer, raised questions about the nomination process. PAGE C1
SCANDALOUS FILM'S IMPACT
David Rooney writes that ''The Deep Throat Sex Scandal,'' at the Bleecker Street Theater, about the low-budget 1972 movie that became the porno-chic emblem of the new freedom and the target of the Nixon administration's cleanup war, adds little to the extensive commentary about the film and its cultural impact. PAGE C2
Science Times
TAKING EARLY RETIREMENT
May Retire Memory, Too
Two economists wrote a paper called ''Mental Retirement,'' and their argument has intrigued behavioral researchers. Data from the United States, England and 11 other countries suggest that the earlier people retire, the more quickly their memories decline. PAGE D1
OP-ED
David Brooks PAGE A25
Bob Herbert PAGE A25

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AWARDS & PRIZES (94%); NOBEL PRIZES (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (90%); POLICE FORCES (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); EXPLOSIVES (86%); LITIGATION (78%); WAR CRIMES (77%); BOMBINGS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (73%); PRINT ADVERTISING (72%); ARRESTS (72%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (71%); TERRORISM (71%); VACCINES (70%); APPROVALS (69%); JOB CREATION (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (68%); DRUG SAFETY (67%); BANKING & FINANCE (67%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (66%); FORECLOSURE (65%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (65%); SMALL BUSINESS (62%); SUPREME COURTS (62%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (60%); AUTISM (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (91%) EAST CHINA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) NORWAY (94%); CHINA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); FRANCE (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2010



320 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 830 words

HEADLINE: How Marriage Survives

BYLINE: By JUSTIN WOLFERS. 
Justin Wolfers, a visiting fellow at the Brookings Institution, is an assistant professor of business and public policy at the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania.

 BODY:
Washington
THE recession has taken a toll on the institution of marriage, we keep hearing. Last month, for instance, when it was reported that the proportion of Americans aged 25 to 34 who are married fell below the proportion who have never married, it was quickly attributed to the economic downturn. Young adults, according to this narrative, have less money to spend on a wedding and are less eager to enter into a lifetime commitment during times of uncertainty.
Again last week, when a report from the Pew Research Center noted that, for the first time, college-educated 30-year-olds were more likely to have been married than were people the same age without a college degree, the news was interpreted as another side effect of the recent recession. After all, the downturn has been especially hard on young men with no college degree. 
But if you look at marriage in the United States over the past century, this interpretation doesn't stand up. Marriage and divorce rates have remained remarkably immune to the ups and downs of the business cycle. Unfortunately, the marriage statistics are easy to misread.
It's misleading to count the wedding rings among people in their 20s and early 30s, because the median age at first marriage in the United States has risen to 28 for men (from 23 in 1970) and 26 for women (from 21 in 1970). The fact that these folks aren't married now doesn't mean they won't marry -- many of them just aren't there yet.
Look instead at 40-year-olds, and you see that 81 percent have married at least once. Yes, this number used to be higher -- it peaked at 93 percent in 1980 -- but, clearly, marriage remains a part of most people's lives. These statistics are not a perfect barometer either, however, because they reflect weddings that were celebrated years earlier.
To most accurately track marriage rates, you need to focus on the number of wedding certificates issued. In 2009, the latest year for which we have data, there were about 2.1 million marriages in the United States. That does represent a slight decline since the recession began. But it's the same rate of decline that existed during the preceding economic boom, the previous bust and both the boom and the bust before that.
Indeed, the recent modest decline in marriage continues a 30-year trend. And even as the number of marriages falls, divorce is also becoming less prevalent. So a greater proportion of today's marriages will likely persist 30 years into the future.
This is not to say that marriage looks the same today as it always did -- over the past several decades, there has been a tremendous shift in married life.
It used to be that a typical marriage involved specialized roles for the husband and wife. Usually he was in the marketplace, and she was in the home, and this arrangement led to maximum productivity.
But today, when families have easy access to prepared foods, inexpensive off-the-rack clothing and labor-saving technology from the washing machine to the robot vacuum cleaner, there's much less benefit from either spouse specializing in homemaking. Women, now better educated and with greater control over their fertility, are in the marketplace, too, and married couples have more money, more leisure time and longer lives to spend together. Modern marriages are based not on the economic benefits of playing specialized roles but on shared passions.
This new model of ''hedonic marriage'' has had an effect on who marries, and when -- as research I have conducted with my better half, the economist Betsey Stevenson, has documented. In the old days, opposites attracted; an aspiring executive groom would pair up with a less-educated bride. And they would wed before the stork visited and before the couple made the costly investment of putting the husband through business school.
But today, that same young executive would more likely be half of a power couple, married to a college-educated woman who shares his taste in books, hobbies, travel and so on. Indeed, marriage rates for college-educated women rose sharply through the 1950s and '60s, and have remained remarkably stable since. These women tend to marry after they have finished college and started their careers.
The decline in marriage, it turns out, is concentrated entirely among women with less education -- those who likely have the least to gain from modern hedonic marriage.
This is not to say that the economic downturn has had no effect at all on domestic life. Census data show that the number of unwed couples living together rose sharply last year. With rents high and jobs hard to come by, it's no surprise that people are doubling up.
Still, given that the marriage rate remains on trend, the rise in cohabitation isn't coming at the expense of marriage. Instead, many young couples who might otherwise merely be dating are moving in together. Some of them, no doubt, will eventually marry. Truly, the recession has not torn young couples apart; it has pushed them closer together.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY RUTH GWILY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); RECESSION (90%); MARRIAGES & MARRIAGE RATES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2010



321 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1256 words

HEADLINE: In the Future, Already Behind

BYLINE: By TODD WOODY

 BODY:
FREMONT, Calif. -- A few years ago, Silicon Valley start-ups like Solyndra, Nanosolar and MiaSole dreamed of transforming the economics of solar power by reinventing the technology used to make solar panels and deeply cutting the cost of production.
Founded by veterans of the Valley's chip and hard-drive industries, these companies attracted billions of dollars in venture capital investment on the hope that their advanced ''thin film'' technology would make them the Intels and Apples of the global solar industry.
But as the companies finally begin mass production -- Solyndra just flipped the switch on a $733 million factory here last month -- they are finding that the economics of the industry have already been transformed, by the Chinese. Chinese manufacturers, heavily subsidized by their own government and relying on vast economies of scale, have helped send the price of conventional solar panels plunging and grabbed market share far more quickly than anyone anticipated.
As a result, the California companies, once so confident that they could outmaneuver the competition, are scrambling to retool their strategies and find niches in which they can thrive. 
''The solar market has changed so much it's almost enough to make you want to cry,'' said Joseph Laia, chief executive of MiaSole. ''We have spent a lot more time and energy focusing on costs a year or two before we thought we had to.''
The challenges come despite extensive public and private support for the Silicon Valley companies. Solyndra, one of the biggest firms, has raised more than $1 billion from investors. The federal government provided a $535 million loan guarantee for the company's new robot-run, 300,000-square-foot solar panel factory, known as Fab 2.
''The true engine of economic growth will always be companies like Solyndra,'' President Obama said in May during an appearance at the then-unfinished factory. But during the year that Solyndra's plant was under construction, competition from the Chinese helped drive the price of solar modules down 40 percent. Solyndra rushed to start cranking out panels on Sept. 13, two months ahead of schedule, and it has increased marketing efforts to make the case to customers that Solyndra's more expensive panels are cost-effective when installation charges are factored in.
''It definitely puts more pressure on us to bring our costs down as quickly as possible by ramping up volume,'' said Ben Bierman, Solyndra's executive vice president for operations and engineering.
Silicon Valley companies like Solyndra, Nanosolar and MiaSole continue to receive hundreds of millions of dollars in customer orders and some plan to expand local manufacturing. But the rapid rise of low-cost Chinese manufacturers has made investors -- who once envisioned the region's future as Solar Valley -- skittish about backing new capital-intensive start-ups.
''I don't see another Solyndra being done,'' said Anup Jacob, whose private equity firm, Virgin Green Fund, has invested significantly in Solyndra.
In the third quarter of 2010, venture capital investment in solar companies plummeted to $144 million from $451 million in the year-ago quarter, according to the Cleantech Group, a San Francisco research firm.
The paucity of capital and the sheer size of Chinese solar panel makers have proved particularly problematic for companies like Solyndra and MiaSole, which make photovoltaic cells using a material called copper indium gallium selenide, or CIGS.
Unlike conventional solar cells, made from silicon wafers, CIGS cells can be deposited on glass or flexible materials, much as ink is printed on rolls of newspaper. Though the technology is less efficient at converting sunlight into electricity, the promise of ''thin film'' solar cells was that they could be made cheaply. But producing CIGS cells on a mass scale has turned out to be a formidable technological challenge, requiring the invention of specialized manufacturing equipment.
While Silicon Valley companies were working on the problem, silicon prices fell and Chinese companies like JA Solar, Suntech and Yingli Green Energy rapidly expanded production of conventional solar panels, supported by tens of billions of dollars in inexpensive credit from the Chinese government as well as other subsidies like cheap land.
Arno Harris, chief executive of Recurrent Energy, a San Francisco solar developer acquired by Sharp last month, said he chose to sign a supply deal with Yingli because the Chinese company offered low prices, quality products and financing.
''We realized that would enable us to bid competitive power prices from projects that could also be efficiently financed,'' Mr. Harris said in an e-mail.
Chinese solar panel makers now supply about 40 percent of the California market, the largest in the United States, and the bulk of the European market, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance, a research and consulting firm.
''We grow every year with double revenue and almost double capacity,'' said Fang Peng, the chief executive of JA Solar, in a telephone interview from the company's Shanghai headquarters. ''At end of the year, we will have 1.8 gigawatts of capacity and will have grown from 4,000 employees at the beginning of this year to more than 11,000.''
By comparison, Solyndra expects to have a total production capacity of 300 megawatts by the end of 2011.
The competition from the Chinese prompted some Silicon Valley companies, like AQT Solar, to pursue new strategies to survive.
AQT has modified off-the-shelf machines used to make computer hard drives to create CIGS cells using a proprietary process. The Sunnyvale company, which has raised $15 million from investors, further cut its capital costs by manufacturing only solar cells, which it sells to other companies to package into solar panels.
Rather than build a factory from the ground up, the company recycled a 1970s-era rental building. ''We moved in here in eight weeks, put our first 20-megawatt line up and did it for under a million dollars. That's on Chinese time,'' said Michael Bartholomeusz, AQT's chief executive.
A mile away, another start-up, Innovalight, has abandoned solar module manufacturing altogether. The company had developed what it calls a silicon ink, which increases a solar cell's efficiency when it is printed on a standard silicon wafer.
After installing a 10-megawatt production line, in late 2008, Innovalight executives decided that, rather than compete with the Chinese, they would license the patented ink technology to them and avoid having to raise hundreds of millions of dollars to build factories of their own.
''How do you fight against enormous subsidies, low-interest loans, cheap labor and scale and a government strategy to make you No. 1 in solar?'' said Conrad Burke, Innovalight's chief. ''Innovation will be the heart of the U.S. strategy, and although it might not create the same scale, we're exporting well-protected technology to China and creating well-paying jobs here.''
As part of its corporate sustainability policy, Wal-Mart Stores last month acted to bolster American CIGS companies by signing a deal with a Silicon Valley solar installer, SolarCity, to put 15 megawatts of photovoltaic panels on its big-box stores and requiring that a significant percentage of them come from thin-film companies like MiaSole.
Even so, SolarCity's chief executive, Lyndon Rive, acknowledged that his company would also be installing a large number of conventional solar panels for the retail giant -- nearly all of them made in China.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Glass rods in Solyndra's tubular solar modules. The company just opened a $733 million factory last month, and is already scrambling to lower production costs to compete with China. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NOAH BERGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
 Innovalight executives elected to license its proprietary silicon coating material to the Chinese. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DaSILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOLAR ENERGY (90%); STARTUPS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); VENTURE CAPITAL (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (77%); ENGINEERING (77%); CONSTRUCTION (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); MARKET SHARE (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%)

COMPANY: SOLYNDRA INC (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2010



322 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 982 words

HEADLINE: Rising Corn Prices Bring Fears of an Upswing in Food Costs

BYLINE: By WILLIAM NEUMAN

 BODY:
First it was heat and drought in Russia. Then it was heat and too much rain in parts of the American Corn Belt. Extreme weather this year has sent grain prices soaring, jolting commodities markets and setting off fears of tight supplies that could eventually hit consumers' wallets.
In the latest market lurch, corn prices dropped in early October, then soared anew, in response to changing assessments by the federal government of grain supplies and coming harvests. 
The sudden movements in commodities markets are expected to have little immediate effect on the prices of corn flakes and bread in the grocery store, although American consumers are likely to see some modest price increases for meat, poultry and dairy products.
But experts warn that the impact could be much greater if next year's harvest disappoints and if 2011 grain harvests in the Southern Hemisphere also fall short of the current robust expectations.
''We can live with high commodity prices for a period without seeing much impact at the retail level, but if that persists for several months or a couple of years, then it eventually has to get passed on'' to consumers, said Darrel Good, an emeritus professor of agricultural economics at the University of Illinois.
The rise in prices is a good indication of how volatile the market has become for commodity futures in basic farm products like corn or wheat.
Grain prices started to shoot up over the summer on reports of a catastrophic drought in the major wheat-producing regions of Russia, Ukraine and Kazakhstan. Prices rose not only for wheat, but also for corn and soybeans, since those grains are interchangeable as animal feed and a drop in wheat production could mean increased demand for the other grains.
Corn prices surged again on Friday after a new report from the United States Agriculture Department said this year's corn crop would be smaller than expected. The harvest is forecast to be 3 percent lower than the 2009 crop, which set a record.
The crop will still probably be the third-largest on record, but demand for corn to be used as animal feed on American farms, in ethanol production and for exports remains high, so supplies are expected to be tight.
December corn futures on the Chicago Board of Trade reached a high of $5.84 a bushel in trading on Tuesday. In late June, similar corn futures were trading as low as $3.43. That is a 70 percent jump.
Dr. Good said the average price for the new crop, which will encompass sales through next August, is expected to be a record, at about $5 a bushel, well above the $3.95 average price for the last three crops.
The government's latest harvest forecast suggests that corn supplies into next year will be ''precariously tight,'' said Don Roose, president of U.S. Commodities, a consulting and brokerage firm in West Des Moines, Iowa. ''At these levels, we have to cut back on our usage,'' he said. ''We can either cut back on exports, our ethanol consumption or our feed.''
It is not yet clear who will be forced to cut corn consumption.
Federal ethanol mandates mean that production of biofuel from corn will remain high, regardless of price. The export market is also going strong.
Dermot J. Hayes, a finance and economics professor at Iowa State University, said there appear to be signs of what he called panic buying by some Asian purchasers of American grains for animal feed. He said they are continuing to buy even though prices are rising out of fear that prices could go much higher.
''The psychology is, you need corn or soybeans for your diets and let's just buy now rather than wait,'' Professor Hayes said.
A wild card in the export market is China, which has not historically been a significant buyer of American corn. China surprised experts when it made some purchases earlier this year, but it is not clear if it will be a major buyer of the current crop.
''Everybody will be watching that closely, to see if China is in the market or not,'' said Dr. Good.
The price increases are good news for American grain farmers, who stand to get far more for their crops than they anticipated when they planted them in the spring.
But they mean hard decisions for livestock and dairy farmers, who were hard hit during the recession and have only recently begun to recover.
Those farmers are likely to respond to higher feed prices by cutting the size of herds, or at least not increasing the number of animals they raise, say farm economists and industry executives. Many farmers will also sell animals at a slightly lower weight. Both those factors will cut supplies of meat and dairy products, eventually pushing prices up.
A similar outcome is expected for the poultry industry.
Other foodstuffs are not likely to see as strong an impact, according to economists.
That is because the cost of basic grains makes up only a small fraction of the total cost of most manufactured foods that contain them, such as breakfast cereals or bread. A large part of the cost of those items comes from transportation, processing and marketing.
The federal government forecasts that food prices will rise as much as 1.5 percent this year and 2 to 3 percent next year. The average annual increase in food prices over the last 10 years was 2.9 percent.
Despite the high commodity prices, economists do not expect a return to the raging food inflation of 2008, when worldwide demand surged and costs were propelled higher by peaking fuel prices. That led to a 5.5 percent increase in food prices in the United States in 2008 and much higher food inflation and food shortages in developing countries.
The Agriculture Department is scheduled to release an updated estimate of this year's crop yield next month.
''There will be a lot of attention focused on the next crop report,'' said Joseph Glauber, the department's chief economist. ''It just appears to be a very, very tight situation, and so there will be a lot of volatility.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A recent report cut the estimated size of this year's corn crop. (B1)
 Higher prices are good for farmers who raise grain, but they pose a problem for those in livestock and dairy products. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DANIEL ACKER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURAL PRICES (93%); COMMODITIES TRADING (91%); PRICE INCREASES (91%); WEATHER (90%); FOOD PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); WHEAT MARKETS (90%); GRAIN MARKETS (90%); DROUGHT (90%); CORN MARKETS (90%); AGRICULTURE (89%); FUTURES (89%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (89%); WHEAT FARMING (89%); LIVESTOCK FEED (89%); ANIMAL FOODS (86%); GRAIN FARMING (78%); CORN FARMING (78%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); MEALS & FEEDS MARKETS (77%); BREAKFAST CEREAL (75%); BIOFUELS (73%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (73%); ALCOHOLS (72%); POULTRY (72%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (71%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (69%); MEATS (69%); ETHYL ALCOHOL MFG (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (51%); ETHANOL (50%)

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (82%)

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (82%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (69%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); UKRAINE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2010



323 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1056 words

HEADLINE: Discount Stores Crop Up in Manhattan's Elite Neighborhoods

BYLINE: By JULIE SATOW

 BODY:
Benefiting from falling commercial rents and recession-driven demand, discount clothing stores are emerging from the fringes of New York real estate and opening branches along fashionable avenues and in luxury developments.
Leading the charge is the off-price retailer TJ Maxx, with new stores under construction on East 59th Street and on West 57th Street near the Time Warner Center. The company is also in discussions for a third location, at 14 Wall Street, according to brokers who did not want to be quoted by name because the lease was not yet completed. The company had a single store in Manhattan, at Sixth Avenue and 18th Street, until last year when it opened an outpost at 100th Street and Columbus Avenue on the Upper West Side.
''Now is the right time for our company to be expanding,'' said Sherry Lang, a spokeswoman for TJ Maxx, which has 890 stores nationwide. ''We have done better than other retailers in the past one-and-one-half years, and we do think that value is here to stay.'' 
Other off-price retailers, which buy excess inventory from designer brands, are expanding in the city. Century 21 Department Stores announced plans to open its second Manhattan store in 50 years next fall, while Syms is building a flagship on Fifth Avenue in what the company's chief executive, Marcy Syms, said was its most expensive lease ever. Nordstrom Rack opened its first Manhattan store, in Union Square, this summer, while Bloomingdale's outlets and Saks Off 5th are also on the hunt for a presence in the city, according to brokers who are showing them spaces.
Consumer demand for off-price retail has soared, in part because of an improvement in the quality and variety of clothes they offer. This better selection is largely because of the lackluster sales at many top fashion houses. As the top end of the market struggles, designers are stuck with large quantities of unsold inventory that they pass down to the discounters.
The number of top designers who are now selling excess inventory to TJX Companies, the parent of TJ Maxx, has jumped nearly 25 percent, said Richard E. Jaffe, a managing director of the research firm Stifel Nicolaus.
''The off-price business model works,'' Mr. Jaffe said. ''It is a sound, well-grounded business, and it plays an essential role in the apparel food chain.''
The popularity of fast-fashion stores like H&M and Forever 21, with their ability to deliver the latest trends quickly, is also helping make off-price shopping more acceptable to consumers. Fast fashion has created ''a leveling of the whole shopping experience, with people mixing and matching price points,'' said Margaret A. Gilliam, the president of the retail consulting firm Gilliam & Company.
''Walking into the old-time 99-cent stores was never appealing,'' said Jeffrey D. Roseman, an executive vice president and principal at the real estate firm Newmark Knight Frank. ''But fast-fashion stores have made discount shopping sexy.''
Forever 21, for example, recently announced it had signed a six-month lease at the Takashimaya Building on Fifth Avenue between 54th and 55th Streets. It will be the fifth New York store for the Los Angeles-based company, which has been ramping up in the city, recently opening a 91,000-square-foot flagship in Times Square.
''There is quite a trend now toward off-price stores,'' said Robert K. Futterman, chief executive of the real estate broker Robert K. Futterman & Associates. Mr. Futterman, who is working with several discount retailers to find expansion space, said it was once the case that owners of luxury developments would consider only retail stores that catered to the tastes of their residents. But now, ''landlords have adjusted their expectations and no longer have a problem leasing to discount retail,'' he said.
Syms is another off-price brand that is doing well. The company, which acquired Filene's Basement -- itself a discounter -- for $55 million out of bankruptcy last year, is creating a new brand, fbSY (pronounced fib-SEE). Ms. Syms said the company hoped it the new brand would ''compete for the attention of shoppers with disposable incomes who are attracted to trends.'' To drive home its point, fbSY is opening a 34,000-square-foot flagship at Fifth Avenue and 43rd Street. Ms. Syms declined to discuss the exact terms, but the asking rent for the space was $400 a square foot.
Syms also recently signed a long-term lease at the corner of West 80th Street and Broadway, adjacent to a Filene's Basement, and last month it opened a Syms Tailored and Tux men's store. The two stores will be joined, creating a blocklong three-level location.
''There has been an increase in competition with the H&Ms and Forever 21 stores, and a blurring of the lines in consumers' minds about discount,'' Ms. Syms said. ''This is our chance to compete.''
Lower rents are helping. ''Rents have fallen as much as 20 percent to 30 percent from previous market highs,'' said Peter Ripka, a partner in the real estate brokerage firm Ripco, ''allowing retailers that work on lesser margins to consider new areas of Manhattan.''
Landlords have also changed their tune. Many building owners have ''stopped dreaming about luxury,'' Mr. Ripka said. ''Landlords who in the past would have held out for a Prada or Barney's Co-op realize that isn't happening, so they will take a TJ Maxx or Duane Reade.''
The willingness of landlords to accept discount retail may have played a role in the news that Century 21 will take over 61,000 square feet that Barnes & Noble is vacating at West 66th Street and Broadway, near Lincoln Center. The privately held company, which has stores in Brooklyn, Queens, Long Island and New Jersey, has spent five decades on Cortlandt Street, directly across from the World Trade Center site.
''In the context of what is happening in our economy, off-price retail stores are optimized for growth,'' said Susan Reda, the editor of Stores Media. The company, which is the publishing arm of the National Retail Federation, recently named Syms the fastest-growing retail chain in the country.
''If you look at the few retailers that are succeeding in this economy, it is those stores that offer discounts,'' Bill Miller, vice president of corporate retail solutions at Jones Lang LaSalle, said. ''And now, this trend is being reflected in the real estate they are leasing.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Discount chains like TJ Maxx, once rare in Manhattan, are opening stores in affluent areas, like this one on the Upper West Side. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KARLY DOMB SADOF FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (89%); FASHION DESIGNERS (78%); CLOTHING LABELS (78%); FASHION & APPAREL (78%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (78%); TRENDS (78%); FASHION DESIGN (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); PRODUCT PRICING (77%); EXECUTIVES (69%)

COMPANY: TJX COS INC (63%)

TICKER: TJX (NYSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (63%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2010



324 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1170 words

HEADLINE: Fed Minutes Lend Weight To Stimulus

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Federal Reserve provided more evidence on Tuesday that a critical mass of officials at the central bank favored additional actions to reinvigorate the lagging recovery.
Most Wall Street analysts expect the Fed to decide, at its meeting in early November, to resume the debt-buying strategy known as quantitative easing, in which the Federal Reserve would purchase Treasury securities to make borrowing cheaper. But while that outcome is possible, it is not certain, according to minutes of the Fed's last policy meeting, which the central bank released Tuesday.
In essence, the debate was between those who said they believed that the Fed should act ''unless the pace of economic recovery strengthened,'' and those who thought action was merited ''only if the outlook worsened and the odds of deflation increased materially.''
The minutes of the Sept. 21 meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee indicated that several officials ''consider it appropriate to take action soon,'' given persistently high unemployment and uncomfortably low inflation. 
But other officials ''saw merit in accumulating further information before reaching a decision,'' according to the minutes. The meeting lasted 5 hours and 10 minutes, longer than usual -- a sign of the uncertainty in the economy and of the debate that has accompanied one of the hardest choices the Fed has faced since the recession began.
The Fed lowered short-term interest rates to nearly zero in December 2008, and then bought $1.7 trillion in mortgage-backed debt and Treasury securities in an effort to lower long-term rates, a process that ended in March.
Now, with unemployment near 10 percent and with inflation well below the Fed's unofficial goal of nearly 2 percent, the Fed is considering renewed intervention: creating money to buy long-term Treasury debt. That would put additional downward pressure on long-term rates, making credit even cheaper.
Former Fed officials interviewed on Tuesday appeared to be just as divided as the current ones.
''If you lead the horse to water and it won't drink, just keep adding water and maybe even spike it,'' said Robert D. McTeer, who was president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas from 1991 to 2005 and is a well-known inflation ''dove,'' particularly attuned to the harm of joblessness. ''You definitely don't want to take the water away.''
Mr. McTeer said the markets had made too much of the prospect of additional asset purchases. The Fed should pursue the strategy in a gradual and incremental fashion, he said, rather than making it appear to be a significant decision.
''From the outside it might look like they're dithering,'' he said. ''Maybe they are, maybe they're not. They haven't done a very good job at communicating.''
H. Robert Heller, a Fed governor from 1986 to 1989, had the opposite view, urging the Fed to show restraint.
''I would do nothing,'' he said, expressing concern that the Fed might appear to be ''monetizing the debt,'' or printing money to make it easier for the government to borrow and spend.
''If they start to monetize the federal debt, they will dig themselves a much deeper hole later on,'' he said. ''That's what we learned from the 1970s, when the Fed undertook a very expansionary monetary policy. It took a double recession in the early 1980s to wring inflation out of the economy. We don't want to repeat that.''
In a speech in Denver on Tuesday, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, Thomas M. Hoenig, said the costs of further action could outweigh the benefits and result in more volatility. ''If we have learned anything from this crisis, as well as past crises, it is that we must be careful not to repeat the policy patterns we have used in previous recoveries,'' Mr. Hoenig said in his prepared remarks.
The minutes of the September meeting showed a consensus that a new recession was unlikely, but that growth ''could be slow for some time.'' Most officials thought the recovery would pick up gradually next year.
But that shared assessment did not mean a unified view on whether the Fed should act.
A few Fed officials noted that recoveries set off by financial crises, like the 2008 crisis, had historically been uneven and slow. But others worried that ''the sluggish pace of growth and continued high levels of slack left the economy exposed to potential negative shocks.''
Some officials argued that the high unemployment rate might have structural causes: mismatches between the jobs that are available and the skills needed to perform them, an inability of workers to relocate because their mortgages are greater than the value of their homes, and the effects of extended unemployment benefits.
Other officials argued against that view, saying that ''the current unemployment rate was considerably above levels that could be explained by structural factors alone.'' Employment has fallen across a range of industries, job vacancies are low, and the demand for goods and services is weak, these officials pointed out.
As a potential alternative to additional debt purchases, Fed officials considered strategies for altering inflation expectations. Such expectations, which can be critical in influencing price movements, have remained fairly stable.
Because short-term rates are at the ''zero lower bound,'' with no room to go down any further, some Fed officials discussed whether the central bank should try to raise inflation expectations, which might spur economic activity in the short run. The Fed could do this by specifying a higher-than-usual desired inflation rate, seeking a price level rather than an inflation rate or offering a target for gross domestic product, the broadest measure of economic output.
William C. Dudley, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, recently raised the possibility that inflation could be allowed to run above the implicit target for some time in the future, to make up for inflation today being lower than desired. That could temporarily raise inflation expectations and lower real interest rates.
But Frank Schorfheide, an economics professor at the University of Pennsylvania, said the strategy was untested.
''Central banks around the world were successful in conveying that they were committed to keeping inflation around 2 percent,'' he said. ''That seems much easier than trying to commit to keeping interest rates a little lower than normal, at some future point in time, in order to raise inflation expectations now.''
The committee's September meeting ended with a statement that the Fed was ''prepared to provide additional accommodation if needed to support the economic recovery and to return inflation, over time, to levels consistent with its mandate.'' Most analysts interpreted the statement to mean that additional action was imminent.
Additional clarity might come on Friday when the Fed's chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, speaks at a conference, sponsored by the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, on how monetary policy should be conducted in a low-inflation environment.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Thomas M. Hoenig, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, spoke on Tuesday in Denver. He voiced skepticism about the effects of new stimulus measures by the Fed. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHEW STAVER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); DEFLATION (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); RECESSION (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (71%); INTEREST RATES (69%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF DALLAS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (63%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2010



325 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1145 words

HEADLINE: New York Taxpayers Facing $200 Billion in Retiree Costs

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
The cities, counties and authorities of New York have promised more than $200 billion worth of health benefits to their retirees while setting aside almost nothing, putting the public work force on a collision course with the taxpayers who are expected to foot the bill.
The total cost appears in a report to be issued on Wednesday by the Empire Center for New York State Policy, a research organization that studies fiscal policy.
It does not suggest that New York must somehow come up with $200 billion right away.
But the report casts serious doubt over whether medical benefits for New York's retirees will be sustainable, given the sputtering economy and today's climate of hostility toward new taxes and taxpayer bailouts. 
The daunting size of the health care obligation raises the possibility that localities will be forced at some point to choose between paying their retirees' medical costs and paying the investors who hold their bonds. Government officials aim to satisfy both groups, and have even made painful cuts in local services when necessary to keep up with both sets of payments.
Only a few places have tried to rein in their costs, by billing retirees for a portion of the premiums, for example. Retirees have responded with lawsuits, but ratings agencies and municipal bond buyers have shrugged off these warning signs.
''So far, the market doesn't care,'' said Edmund J. McMahon, the director of the Empire Center. ''The market seems to assume, on the basis of nothing, that at some point all of these places are simply going to stop paying retiree health benefits.''
The health benefits are entirely separate from the pensions that New York's public workers have earned. Governments have reported their pension obligations for years, but their retiree medical obligations have been building up unseen, because governments were not required to account for them. The information is starting to come to light because of a new accounting requirement.
One city, Schenectady, found the cost too overwhelming to calculate, warning that it ''will be astronomical, with the potential of bankrupting municipalities.''
The city even said in a document accompanying a recent debt offering that it did not know whether it was really required to comply with the new accounting rule.
The $200 billion that New York State and its localities owe retirees in the aggregate is less than the amount they owe their bondholders, about $264 billion. But health costs are rising, and in some places the obligations have already eclipsed the value of the government's outstanding bonds. Most credit analysts seem to expect that if a municipality has to default on something, it will default on its retiree health promises, not on its bonds. Pensions, meanwhile, are considered protected by the New York State constitution.
But no one knows for sure, and no one is predicting that retirees will take the loss of a valuable health plan lying down.
''It will be a mess. There will be a lot of disputes, a lot of litigation,'' said Jerry A. Webman, chief economist for OppenheimerFunds. He said that defaults and bankruptcies by governments were still so rare that there was little legal precedent, and no way of knowing which pledges would survive a court challenge.
Retiree health benefits in New York consist of an indemnity plan plus optional managed-care plans.
There is no central source of information, but Mr. McMahon found governments paying 35 percent to 100 percent of the premiums. Retirees can further reduce their share by paying their premiums with unused sick time.
The vast majority of the work force can start drawing benefits at age 55. When retirees turn 65 and join Medicare, their former employers reimburse their Medicare premiums and supplement the federal program.
The cost pressures are by no means unique to New York. States and cities across the country have promised retiree health benefits without identifying a way to pay for them, leaving taxpayers on the hook. Mr. McMahon said he thought his group's new study was the first to aggregate the obligations in a single state.
In practice, each municipality pledges to pay its own retiree health obligations. But if one were in distress, the state could step in through the Financial Emergency Act, passed in 1975 for the rescue of New York City, and might backstop some costs.
The state already stands behind the bonds of some authorities as well. Some officials and bankers worry that the state might be unable to make good if a number of towns and authorities got into trouble at the same time. New York State does have a solid AA rating on its general obligation bonds, however.
New York City has the biggest retiree health obligation, having promised benefits worth $62 billion as of June 30, 2008 -- roughly what the state of California has promised, and more than New York City's outstanding debt on its bonds.
The city's five pension funds also have big holes, which have been calculated in various ways. The last time the city's chief actuary, Robert C. North, assessed their status, in June 2008, he found a shortfall of about $75 billion between what the workers had earned and the money that had been set aside.
The new accounting rule for retiree health plans lets governments disclose a little at a time, but New York City reported its entire obligation. The combination of the unfunded pension and retiree health obligations gives New York City a negative net worth, but that does not mean it is about to collapse, just that it will have to bring its finances back into balance. New York City's general obligation debt is rated AA.
The obligation to employees of New York State was only slightly less than the city's, $60 billion. Third place went to the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, which has promised health benefits worth about $13 billion.
Mr. McMahon of the Empire Center drew the numbers primarily from local government reports, ferreted out from obscure documents, bond offering statements and audited financial statements.
He then tried to determine where the burden was heaviest. He found that every resident of New York City was responsible for $7,343, in today's dollars, for health care for retired city workers. What's more, they owe a big share of the costs for retired state workers, an additional $3,082 for each person living in New York state.
Among the state's smaller cities, Mr. McMahon found unusually large per capita amounts owed in Buffalo, Syracuse, White Plains and Niagara Falls.
''You've got a lot of cities whose growth prospects are murky, to put it best,'' Mr. McMahon said. ''You're looking at a G.M.-type situation, a struggling company that's trying to remake itself, but it has this huge legacy cost.''
Buffalo also has the distinction of paying more for health care for its retirees than for its current employees, a situation Mr. McMahon called ''exceptional.''

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Future Medical Bills: New York State, its counties and its cities have not funded their retiree health care plans and face large future liabilities. (Source: Empire Center for New York State Policy) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); RETIREE HEALTH PLANS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); BONDS (89%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (88%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); DEBT FINANCING (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (73%); BAILOUTS (72%); ACCOUNTING (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2010



326 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 687 words

HEADLINE: Fed Report Lifts Shares But Brings No Surprise

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

 BODY:
Shares on Wall Street rose slightly on Tuesday after the Federal Reserve revealed some of its disagreements about providing additional stimulus to the lagging economy.
The minutes of the most recent meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee, released at midday, showed that some Fed officials ''consider it appropriate to take action soon,'' while others ''saw merit in accumulating further information before reaching a decision.''
The minutes indicated that the Fed was ready to enact another round of quantitative easing, said Peter Cardillo, the chief market economist for Avalon Partners. ''But it is not a question of when, but of how much.'' 
The market was trading lower or mixed throughout most of the day, easing back from a five-month high last week when the Dow Jones industrial average rose above 11,000 for the first time since May
On Tuesday, stocks rose slightly after the minutes of the Sept. 12 meeting were released, but then fell back again. Analysts said that the release confirmed what the market had already expected: that additional monetary policy easing was only a matter of time.
Jeffrey N. Kleintop, chief market strategist at LPL Financial, said the text suggested that the Fed would announce something on Nov. 3.
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 10.06 points, or 0.09 percent, to 11,020.40. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was up 4.45 points, or 0.38 percent, at 1,169.77, while the Nasdaq composite index rose 15.59 points, or 0.65 percent, to 2,417.92.
''It was definitely not a market mover,'' said Alan B. Lancz, the president of Alan B. Lancz & Associates. ''It definitely wasn't a surprise, and I think a lot of it has been priced in.''
Before the release of the minutes, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, Thomas M. Hoenig, questioned the benefit of further quantitative easing. ''First, without clear terms and goals, quantitative easing becomes an open-ended commitment that leads to maintaining the funds rate too low and the Federal Reserve's balance sheet too large,'' Mr. Hoenig said in a speech in Denver. ''The result is a further misallocation of resources, more imbalances and more volatility.''
Mr. Hoenig opposed the decision made in August to reinvest proceeds from mortgage-related securities in new purchases of government debt.
Some analysts cautioned against reading too much into the Fed report and said that developments in Asia and corporate earnings would probably generate most of the inspiration among traders.
As for other catalysts, Mr. Lancz said that recent mergers and acquisitions were ''still on investors' radar.''
Before the markets opened in New York, Pfizer, the pharmaceutical company, announced that it would buy the pain drug maker King Pharmaceuticals for $3.6 billion in cash. Pfizer will pay $14.25 a share for King, a 40 percent premium over Monday's closing price.
Pfizer shares rose 10 cents, to $17.48, while King shares were up $3.99, to $14.14.
''I think the market is seeing a little bit of profit-taking,'' said Nick Kalivas, vice president for financial research at MF Global. In London, the FTSE 100 was down 10.81 points, or 0.19 percent, while the DAX in Frankfurt fell 4.94 points, or 0.1 percent. The CAC 40 in France lost 19.63 points, or 0.52 percent.
Reports out of China indicated that the government was taking a new approach to control lending, telling its biggest banks to increase reserves.
And in South Korea, the steel maker Posco reported weaker quarterly profit and cut its outlook for the year, which analysts said affected shares of companies that did business in Asia.
Posco shares fell $5.03, to $114.47, in the United States.
The change in outlook raised ''a little bit of a question about the demand for steel,'' Mr. Kalivas said.
Energy, materials and transportation sectors were weaker in early trading on Tuesday, he said, adding: ''Those are very sensitive to the Asian growth picture.''
Interest rates rose slightly. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note fell 11/32, to 101 22/32 and the yield rose to 2.43 percent, from 2.39 percent late Friday. The bond market was closed on Monday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); MERGERS (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (74%); CHEMICALS MFG (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (60%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (60%)

COMPANY: ALAN B LANCZ & ASSOCIATES INC (81%); LPL FINANCIAL CORP (68%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF KANSAS CITY (64%); PFIZER INC (60%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (84%)

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (60%); PFEB (BRU) (60%); PFE (NYSE) (60%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (81%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (68%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (64%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (64%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (60%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (60%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (70%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2010



327 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: Ups and Downs of Foreign Capital

BYLINE: By HUGO DIXON and ANTONY CURRIE

 BODY:
Hot money (money in pursuit of short-term gains) is the bugbear of policy makers in many developing economies. Ask Brazil or, indeed, Thailand, which just imposed a 15 percent withholding tax on interest and capital gains earned by foreign investors on Thai bonds. One worry is that booming currencies will become uncompetitive; another is that easy-come, easy-go money will make economies vulnerable to booms and busts.
But not all inflows are bad. Provided capital can be locked in at cheap rates and turned to productive use, it can even be good. One of the best ways of doing so is for companies to take advantage of the current I.P.O. boom. If international investors want to throw money at Indian coal, Malaysian chemicals or Asian insurance, the issuers -- often governments -- would be foolish to say no. After all, money invested in an I.P.O. can't be that easily ripped away. Investors can sell their shares, but in doing so they will be cutting off their own noses. 
Money invested in I.P.O.'s has two characteristics that make it much healthier than other types of hot money. It is equity, and it is long term. The least healthy type of hot money, by contrast, is short-term debt, especially if issued in a foreign currency. When that cash flows away, the borrower is left high and dry. This was the scourge of the emerging market crises of the 1990s. Fortunately it's not a problem today.
Between the extremes, there are ordinary portfolio flows in the secondary market, not as good as I.P.O. money or direct foreign investment, but much better than short-term foreign currency borrowing.
Of course, the inflow of I.P.O. money still bolsters the currencies of recipient countries. But if the capital is deployed productively, there's a silver lining. What's more, in a few cases, notably A.I.A.'s megalisting of its Asian business, the money will immediately flow out again -- to its parent, the American International Group and, ultimately, the United States government.
In other cases, where the seller is the state, cash could even be put aside in rainy-day funds and invested in the developed world. That might seem odd. But if developing countries really think hot money from abroad is inflating their markets, it would be a profitable trade.
Holding Out on G.M.
Prospective investors in General Motors have the automaker and its majority owner, the Treasury, over a barrel. Sure, G.M. is puttering along nicely. But the early hard sell about the size and timing of its I.P.O. appears to have backfired, leaving Treasury looking like a distressed seller.
For months, G.M. and the Treasury gave the impression the share sale would raise up to $20 billion. On top of that, insiders, including the former chief executive Ed Whitacre, fanned expectations for a fourth-quarter deal.
Now the target G.M. will raise has been halved as the Treasury seems more interested in getting a higher price than exiting swiftly. That's smart, but after all the hype it looks like a reaction to poor demand. That puts even more pressure on timing. Absent a market crash, postponing the deal would leave G.M. and the Treasury looking even weaker.
That's just the kind of advantage institutional investors love to pounce on. They have reason enough to be skeptical: G.M. has only two profitable quarters under its belt; its European arm is still losing money; its new executive team is untested; and its pension plans, untouched in bankruptcy, are underfunded by $27 billion.
G.M. won't be worth enough anytime soon to repay taxpayers' money anyway. Generously assume it deserves the same multiple as Ford, around seven times next year's earnings. That means churning out some $9.5 billion of profit, double what it's likely to make this year.
Absent a heroic improvement in G.M.'s margins that would require a surge in auto sales. Yet experts reckon industrywide sales in the United States will rise just a few percentage points next year, according to a Credit Suisse poll, and take a couple more years to hit the new assumed normal of around 15 million units a year.
Investors don't need to pay for that now. Given G.M.'s challenges, they're right to demand a discount to whatever they do think the automaker is currently worth. Considering their grasp of the whip hand ahead of the I.P.O., there's a good chance they'll get it.
HUGO DIXON and ANTONY CURRIE
For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Money invested in A.I.A. will flow back to the American International Group. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE CLARKE/A.F.P. -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (63%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (63%); 8685 (TSE) (63%); GM (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (63%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (63%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); THAILAND (92%); MALAYSIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2010



328 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 521 words

HEADLINE: World Briefing EUROPE; Germany: Arrests of 2 in Iran Take On Political Overtones

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SLACKMAN

 BODY:
BERLIN -- Germany and Iran faced off Tuesday over the case of two Germans arrested in Iran over the weekend while interviewing the son of a woman whose sentence to death by stoning raised an international uproar. 
There were indications that the arrests were taking on political overtones similar to those surrounding the arrest of three Americans by Iranian border guards more than a year ago.
Both Iran and Germany confirmed Tuesday for the first time that the two were indeed Germans. Leaders here said the two were journalists, giving no further identification. Chancellor Angela Merkel called for their release, and Foreign Minister Guido Westerwelle said, ''We work with full strength at all diplomatic levels'' for their freedom.
In Tehran, however, government officials accused the two of being connected to a revolutionary group, and said they had traveled to Iran on tourist visas, not the requisite journalist visas.
''They were arrested because they had a link to a foreign antirevolution network and their case is under review,'' the Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman, Ramin Mehmanparast, told reporters.
The arrests come as Germany is under increasing pressure from Washington to cut -- or at least reduce -- economic ties with Iran. Several of Germany's largest companies have announced in recent months that they will wind down their business dealings with Iran. Germany has long been an important trading and banking center for Iran, even while Iran has been under sanctions by the United Nations Security Council for failing to abide by rulings concerning its nuclear program. Iran says its program is peaceful, while Western capitals have said it is a weapons program.
Mr. Mehmanparast said the Germans were arrested in the northwestern city of Tabriz while interviewing Sajad Ghaderzadeh, the son of Sakineh Mohammadi Ashtiani, whose death sentence for adultery drew international criticism over the summer. The authorities lifted the stoning sentence, but not the death penalty, saying that she had also been convicted of helping murder her husband. Ms. Ashtiani is being held in Tabriz prison.
Mr. Westerwelle said he ordered a diplomatic mission to Tabriz.
Iran requires that all journalists enter the country on a special visa, then receive accreditation in order to be allowed to work in the country. Journalists are also required to pay for translators who work for agencies affiliated with the government; they then are required to inform on the reporters' behavior as well as to identify everyone they interviewed.
But even with that system in place, Iran has denied access to Tehran for most Western reporters since the political turmoil that followed the contested presidential election last year.
The American case started in the summer of 2009, when three hikers in the mountainous Kurdish area of northern Iraq were arrested by Iranian border guards and accused of spying. American officials protested their detention and dismissed Iran's claims as preposterous, but after a year, only one of the hikers has been released.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PASSPORTS & VISAS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); ARRESTS (90%); WRITERS (89%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (89%); HIKING (88%); MURDER (78%); SENTENCING (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); BORDER CONTROL (76%); NEWS REPORTING (75%); ELECTIONS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); ESPIONAGE (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (64%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (64%); MOUNTAINS (60%); ACCREDITATION (50%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%)

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); TABRIZ, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (88%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (88%) GERMANY (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); IRAN (88%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2010



329 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1296 words

HEADLINE: Next Step On Policy For Climate

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: leonhardt@nytimes.com

 BODY:
WASHINGTON
Michael Greenstone has the resume of somebody who should be despondent over Washington's failure to pass a climate bill. An environmental economist who worked in the Obama White House, he is now back to being an M.I.T. professor and also runs the Hamilton Project, the well-connected, Democratic-leaning research group.
But Mr. Greenstone is not despondent. He thinks the benefits of the bills that died in the Senate -- which would have raised the cost of carbon emissions, through a system known as cap and trade -- were sometimes exaggerated. Once the necessary compromises were made, the bills might not have raised the cost of carbon by much. And they obviously wouldn't have done anything about fast-growing emissions in China and India.
''The first best hope was getting a world price for carbon, and that now looks remote in the coming years,'' he says. ''But there are ways in which the other options may be preferable to a price only in the U.S.'' 
To put it another way, the death of cap and trade doesn't have to mean the death of climate policy. The alternative revolves around much more, and much better organized, financing for clean energy research. It's an idea with a growing list of supporters, a list that even includes conservatives -- most of whom opposed cap and trade.
On Wednesday, the reliably conservative American Enterprise Institute and the left-of-center Brookings Institution will release a joint proposal to increase federal spending on clean energy innovation to as much as $25 billion a year, from the currently planned $4 billion a year. The proposal would also toughen rules for such money, so that recipients could continue getting it only if they were reducing the cost of clean energy. Today, many subsidies for wind, solar power and ethanol are more lenient.
Along similar lines, Al Gore is working with Reed Hundt and John Podesta, former Clinton administration officials, on a proposal aimed at ''lowering the cost of clean,'' as Mr. Hundt recently told the Web site Earth2Tech. The current rock-bottom interest rates would help the government finance the investments.
These proposals reflect the political reality that raising the cost of dirty energy is unpopular, especially when the economy is so weak. Finding the money to make clean energy cheaper, even when government budgets are tight, will probably be an easier sell.
The approach does have one big disadvantage, of course. It does not leverage the power of the market, the way that a cap-and-trade system (or direct carbon tax) would. If the price of emitting carbon went up, companies would devote more of their own research budgets to finding new energy sources.
But history shows that government-directed research can work. The Defense Department created the Internet, as part of a project to build a communications system safe from nuclear attack. The military helped make possible radar, microchips and modern aviation, too. The National Institutes of Health spawned the biotechnology industry. All those investments have turned into engines of job creation, even without any new tax on the technologies they replaced.
''We didn't tax typewriters to get the computer. We didn't tax telegraphs to get telephones,'' says Michael Shellenberger, president of the Breakthrough Institute in Oakland, Calif., which is a sponsor of the proposal with A.E.I. and Brookings. ''When you look at the history of technological innovation, you find that state investment is everywhere.''
The big question for anyone worried about global warming is whether to keep pushing for a cap-and-trade system above all else or to begin looking for alternatives. In many ways, I'm sympathetic to the cap-and-trade crowd. The market -- which is to say, prices -- can be a fearsomely powerful force.
But there are two questions worth asking. First, when will Congress take another shot at cap and trade? Given the gains that Republicans are likely to make in next month's elections, 2013 seems the soonest that is remotely fathomable. In the meantime, climate change will march on. This year is on pace to tie 2005 as the warmest on record, according to NASA, and the 10 hottest years have all occurred since 1998.
Second, how confident should we be that cap and trade will work as advertised?
Back in March, when a Senate climate bill was still possible, Mr. Greenstone gave a speech in Chicago explaining why it might disappoint its fans. The speech was striking from somebody who supported the bill and had even worked on it as chief economist of the president's Council of Economic Advisers.
By raising the cost of dirty energy, a cap-and-trade system would give American companies an incentive to use less energy. But the cost would probably not be so high that they would need breakthrough technologies anytime soon, Mr. Greenstone said. Instead of investing in basic research, companies might make more modest changes, using energy sources that emitted somewhat less carbon, like natural gas, or making their offices and factories more energy efficient.
As beneficial as these changes might be, they would not help China and India keep global emissions from reaching levels that scientists consider ominous. As Mr. Greenstone said in Chicago, ''All the action is really going to be occurring in developing countries.'' And developing countries can't caulk or insulate their way to a green future. They need breakthrough technologies that can compete on a grand scale with coal and oil -- the kind China is now pursuing and a major research program in this country could, too.
Mr. Greenstone called for $25 billion in annual research money, the same figure that's in the plan being released Wednesday. (He did not work on the plan.) That's less than half the estimated net cost of the main Senate cap-and-trade bill. It's also less than the $32 billion budget for the National Institutes of Health.
The National Institutes are a model in another way, too. It makes decisions based on a rigorous scientific process. The research money for clean energy, on the other hand, is distorted by politics. Iowa's influential presidential caucus, for example, is one reason the corn-based fuel known as ethanol receives so much money.
The experts at A.E.I. and Brookings specifically suggest making the Defense Department a bigger part of clean energy research. The American military has such a successful record of fostering basic research partly because it ends up using the results of that research. The military also has a clear interest in alternative clean energy, given that it consumes more oil than some entire countries and that the soldiers on its fuel convoys are sometimes killed in action.
Politically, the weakest link in the pro-research argument is that no one knows exactly where the money will come from.
Congress could cancel current subsidies, for both clean and dirty energy, but that would not raise anywhere near $25 billion. Steven Hayward of A.E.I. notes that the royalties that oil and gas companies pay on future projects could also be increased, as Representative Devin Nunes, a California Republican, has suggested. The A.E.I.-Brookings plan even raises the idea of a small cap-and-trade program, charging about one-third as much for carbon emissions as the Senate bill would have -- but no cap-and-trade program will happen anytime soon.
When Mr. Hayward and I were talking, I asked whether he could imagine Republican leaders' supporting more research spending no matter where the money came from. Probably not in the near future, he acknowledged. For now, Republicans will focus on shrinking government.
But at some point, maybe if oil prices spike, Mr. Hayward thinks the party may well be interested in a policy that fosters innovation, creates jobs and helps national security.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The environmental economist Michael Greenstone has said that the cap and trade bill would have disappointed supporters. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN HOFFMAN/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); SOLAR ENERGY (87%); PUBLIC FINANCE (87%); WIND ENERGY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (77%); POLITICS (76%); ENERGY RESEARCH (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); GREENHOUSE GASES (70%); CONSERVATISM (69%); ETHANOL (65%); ALCOHOLS (62%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (72%); AL GORE (58%); JOHN PODESTA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2010



330 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 661 words

HEADLINE: Candidates for California Governor Meet in Heated Final Debate

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO -- With the stakes -- and tempers -- running high, Meg Whitman and Jerry Brown clashed on issues both substantive and scandalous in the final debate of the hard-fought and closely watched California governor's race on Tuesday night.
Early on, both candidates worked to their strengths. Mr. Brown, the Democrat, flashed knowledge of intricacies of state government, while Ms. Whitman, the Republican, who showed more confidence than in earlier debates, offered her case that she was a ''job creator'' in a state with an unemployment rate of more than 12 percent. 
But near the midpoint of the hourlong debate, Mr. Brown and Ms. Whitman engaged in heated banter over remarks made by a Brown campaign aide -- inadvertently recorded in early September on a voicemail message and released last week by a Los Angeles police union -- referring to Ms. Whitman as a ''whore.''
It is not clear whether Mr. Brown heard the remark, or acknowledged it, but he apologized again on Tuesday, though he objected to a characterization by Tom Brokaw, the former NBC News anchor who was serving as the moderator, that the word was equivalent to a racial slur.
''This is a five-week-old private conversation picked up on a cellphone with a garbled transmission, very hard to detect who it is,'' Mr. Brown said. ''The campaign apologized promptly, and I affirm that apology tonight.''
Ms. Whitman rolled her eyes and scolded Mr. Brown. ''It's the people of California who deserve better than slurs and personal attacks,'' she said. ''That's not what California is about.''
But Mr. Brown did not back down, pointing out that one of Ms. Whitman's senior advisers, former Gov. Pete Wilson, had once referred to Congress as ''whores,'' in reference to the public sector unions.
''You know better than that Jerry,'' Ms. Whitman said. ''That's a completely different thing.''
The debate, in front of a demonstrative crowd at Dominican University in San Rafael, just north of San Francisco, was the most combative of three meetings between the two candidates. At the most recent debate, in Fresno this month, Ms. Whitman had to answer questions about a Mexican housekeeper, Nicandra Diaz Santillan, whom she employed for nine years.
Ms. Whitman said she fired Ms. Diaz Santillan after discovering her immigration status, and recent polls found weakening support from Latinos. Mr. Brokaw also addressed this issue, asking Ms. Whitman how, if she could not find an illegal immigrant working in her own home, she expected businesses to do so.
Ms. Whitman blamed Ms. Diaz Santillan for falsifying papers. ''It broke my heart, but I had to fire her,'' she said.
Mr. Brown said that the nation needed comprehensive immigration reform, and that compassion had to be shown to illegal immigrants. ''These are mothers and dads, and kids,'' he said, adding that Ms. Whitman's opposition to allowing some path to citizenship was cruel. ''I don't think that's human; I don't think it's right.''
The debate came just three weeks before California voters go to the polls, after years of recurring budget deficits exacerbated by the recession and a collapse in the housing market.
Ms. Whitman, the billionaire former chief executive of eBay, has poured more than $120 million of her fortune into the race. But Ms. Whitman said she was the one who was ''up against some pretty big entrenched interests,'' a reference to the state's influential public unions, who have largely backed Mr. Brown, a two-term former governor. He responded that a Whitman administration would largely benefit the rich.
Earlier, Mr. Brown had raised the proposed elimination of the capital gains tax. ''Ms. Whitman, I would like to ask you: how much money will you save if these tax breaks were in effect this year or last year?''
Ms. Whitman acknowledged that she was an investor and that ''investors will benefit from this.'' But she added: ''My track record is creating jobs. My business is creating jobs. Your business is politics.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); DISMISSALS (75%); RACE & RACISM (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (68%); IMMIGRATION LAW (67%); IMMIGRATION (60%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (60%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (68%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (68%)

PERSON: MARGARET C WHITMAN (92%); JERRY BROWN (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); FRESNO, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2010



331 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1153 words

HEADLINE: U.S. LIFTS THE BAN ON DEEP DRILLING, WITH NEW RULES

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER and JOHN M. BRODER; Peter Baker reported from Washington, and John M. Broder from Bloomington, Ind. Tom Zeller Jr. contributed reporting from New York.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Obama administration lifted the moratorium on deepwater oil and gas drilling on Tuesday, but it will be weeks or months before drilling resumes while industry and government regulators scramble to meet strict new rules intended to prevent another disaster like the Deepwater Horizon explosion and spill.
The moratorium, imposed after the BP accident that killed 11 workers and spewed nearly five million barrels of oil into the Gulf of Mexico, was a blow to the oil industry and angered Gulf Coast communities dependent on offshore drilling for jobs and income. Lifting the ban mollified some of its sharpest critics, but the debate over the economic and environmental impact of oil development in the gulf continues. 
The freeze was intended to address lax safety and environmental regulation that contributed to the BP crisis. Department of Interior regulators have written new protective measures that they believe will allow offshore operations to resume safely.
''We have made and continue to make significant progress in reducing the risks associated with deepwater drilling,'' Secretary of the Interior Ken Salazar said in announcing the end of the moratorium. Therefore, he said, ''I have decided that it is now appropriate to lift the suspension on deepwater drilling for those operators that are able to clear the higher bar that we have set.''
The new rules, issued by the Interior Department's new Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement, tighten standards for well design, blowout preventers, safety certification, emergency response and worker training.
The bureau estimates that compliance with the added regulations will cost the deepwater industry $183 million a year, largely for changes in well design and the requirement that operators maintain subsea robots to operate blowout preventers in case primary control systems fail.
Although the suspension of the moratorium takes effect immediately, offshore operators will first have to submit new applications showing they have complied with the tougher rules and have their rigs inspected. Officials said they expect at least some of the rigs to be drilling again by the end of the year, although they are uncertain about when the first permit might be cleared.
''We are open for business,'' Mr. Salazar said. Still, the opening of business may be delayed by a shortage of government manpower for reviewing applications and performing inspections, federal officials acknowledged.
The moratorium was scheduled to expire on Nov. 30, but the administration came under intense pressure to lift it sooner as companies began laying off workers, oil industry support businesses suffocated, and several rigs moved out of the gulf or were taken out of service. Two federal courts ruled that the moratorium was illegal, but it stayed in place as the government appealed the decisions.
Economists and oil industry supporters said the moratorium could cost billions of dollars in lost income and force thousands of layoffs. Yet the worst of the predicted economic impacts have not been felt, as oil companies have continued to pay their most valuable workers and the spill cleanup created thousands of temporary jobs.
The suspension affected 33 deepwater drilling rigs, but that number has shrunk to about two dozen now awaiting new permits to go back to work.
The initial reaction to the decision was mixed, with environmentalists saying it endangered the gulf and the oil industry complaining that the new rules mean the ban will effectively continue.
Senator Mary L. Landrieu, a Louisiana Democrat who has been among the most vocal critics, called it ''a step in the right direction'' but said the administration must speed the granting of permits and offer more clarity about the new rules.
Ms. Landrieu has single-handedly blocked Mr. Obama's nomination of Jack Lew as White House budget director to protest the moratorium and said she would not release her hold yet. ''When Congress reconvenes for the lame-duck session next month, I will have had several weeks to evaluate if today's lifting of the moratorium is actually putting people back to work,'' she said.
Robert L. Gibbs, the White House press secretary, called Ms. Landrieu's continuing hold on Mr. Lew's nomination ''unwarranted'' and ''outrageous'' and called on her to stop playing politics with the nomination.
Chris John, a former Democratic member of Congress who is now president of the Louisiana Mid-Continent Oil and Gas Association, a trade group, welcomed the decision but said he feared that a de facto moratorium would continue because of onerous new regulations and a shortage of government officials to process new drilling applications.
''We had a disturbing experience in the shallow water where there was no moratorium, but some of the rules and regulations and bureaucracy caused the number of permits to plummet,'' Mr. John said. Since the BP accident in April, only 12 new shallow-water permits have been issued; roughly that many were granted each month before the spill.
On the other side, Dan Favre, a spokesman for the Gulf Restoration Network, an advocacy group, condemned the administration's decision, saying it ''again puts the region at risk'' and noting that the BP spill cleanup and restoration are not complete.
''While new rules to increase safety of drilling operations are welcomed, renaming a federal agency and creating a blueprint for safer drilling are not enough to ensure that the industry will actually follow the rules,'' Mr. Favre said.
Michael R. Bromwich, the director of the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, which assumed the duties carried out by the former Minerals Management Service, led the effort to develop the new rules. He presented the regulatory framework to Mr. Salazar on Oct. 1, with a recommendation that the moratorium be lifted immediately.
In making that recommendation, he acknowledged that his agency lacks enough people to quickly review drilling applications and perform the detailed inspections required before new permits are issued. He also said that it would be useful to have more time to assemble the equipment and expertise needed to deal with any future major blowout and spill.
Yet he argued that the new rules provide a sufficient margin of safety and that it is worth the remaining risks to avoid further damage to the Gulf Coast economy.
The bureau has additional new regulations in the works beyond those it has already issued, officials said.
Mr. Bromwich said in a telephone briefing on Tuesday that it was not clear how long it will take energy firms to comply with the new rules and for his agency to act on them.
''It will clearly not be tomorrow, and it's not going to be next week,'' Mr. Bromwich said. He added, ''My sense is that we will have permits approved before the end of the year, but how much before the end of the year and how many permits before the end of the year I can't say.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Tugs moved a deepwater rig into port in Pascagoula, Miss., in August because of the moratorium. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUSTY COSTANZA/THE TIMES-PICAYUNE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL EXTRACTION (91%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (91%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); OIL SPILLS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); INSPECTIONS (77%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (77%); OCEANS (76%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (74%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (73%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (72%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (71%); LABOR SHORTAGES (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); KEN SALAZAR (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GULF OF MEXICO (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2010



332 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1140 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and Vietnam Build Ties With an Eye on China

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS

 BODY:
HANOI, Vietnam -- A visit to Vietnam this week by Robert M. Gates, the United States defense secretary, is just the latest step in a bilateral relationship that is at its warmest since diplomatic ties were established 15 years ago.
A steady progression of careful gestures has eroded the enmities of the Vietnam War, built a basis of increasing trust and turned the two nations' attention, in large part, from issues of the past to the present.
It is the second American cabinet-level visit to Vietnam in four months; Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton came in July. Exchanges at this level have become almost common, if not routine.
Mr. Gates was here for a gathering of defense chiefs from the 10-member Association of Southeast Asian Nations and partner countries. 
''I would say that relations are at their highest point in 15 years,'' said Hung M. Nguyen, director of the Indochina Institute at George Mason University in Fairfax, Va. ''We have basically removed the major hurdles of suspicion in military-to-military relations, and I would expect things to proceed quite fast,'' he said.
The main concern shared by the two nations underscores the shifts in alliances in the 35 years since the war came to an end: Chinese claims in the South China Sea.
It is an issue with some historical paradox. While the United States sought during the war to contain an expansion of Chinese Communism into Vietnam, it is aligned with Vietnam today in concern over an escalation of China's maritime claims.
China was an ally of North Vietnam in its war against South Vietnam and the United States in the 1960s and '70s and is now a partner of a unified Vietnam in an uneasy relationship between Communist nations of vastly different size.
''Vietnam worries about Chinese in the South China Sea, and America worries about interference in freedom of navigation,'' Dr. Hung said. ''Because of this, the strategic interests of Vietnam and the United States converge.''
On Tuesday, Vietnam announced that China had released a Vietnamese fishing boat and crew it had seized near the disputed Paracel Islands a month ago, ending the latest flare-up between the nations. China earlier said that the crew must pay a fine, and Vietnam said that the crew members had been mistreated.
By Vietnam's count, 63 fishing boats with 725 crew members have been seized since 2005 in areas claimed by China.
In March, China raised the level of its territorial claim, asserting that the South China Sea was a ''core concern,'' a phrase that placed it on a par with Taiwan and Tibet, its most politically contentious territorial interests.
In response, during a visit to Hanoi in July, Mrs. Clinton hardened Washington's stance by saying the United States had a ''national interest'' in freedom of navigation in the area.
In balancing its relations between the two major powers, Vietnam has been at pains to reassure China, the giant on its doorstep, that it would have no alliances, military bases or military coalitions that threatened China.
While Vietnam marked the 15th anniversary of diplomatic ties with the United States this year, it also celebrated a much longer diplomatic relationship of 60 years with China.
Hanoi's warming toward Washington has also been slowed by suspicions of American motives and commitment to a Vietnam policy, analysts said.
They said Washington's relations with Vietnam had always been part of larger international interests and could shift as those interests changed.
Once again, as it was during the war, America's stance toward Vietnam is one piece in a broader China policy.
Toeing a careful line, Vietnam insists that its policies toward the two nations are independent of each other.
''You should not look at Vietnam's relationship with the United States through the prism of China,'' said Nguyen Nam Duong, a research fellow at the Diplomatic Academy of Vietnam, a branch of the Foreign Ministry.
''Vietnam will have independent relations with both the United States and China, and we want to separate those relations from each other,'' he said in an interview on Tuesday.
Quite apart from their relations with China, the two former wartime enemies have grown steadily closer. Trade relations were normalized in 2006. Port calls by United States naval vessels have become more frequent since the first one in 2003.
''It's a very deliberate pace that's being kept here,'' said Carlyle Thayer, an expert on Vietnam at the Australian Defense Force Academy at the University of New South Wales in Sydney.
''Neither side wants to be used by the other, but both want to advance the relationship,'' he said.
Mrs. Clinton took an exuberant tone last month when she said, ''The progress between Vietnam and the United States has been breathtaking.''
Vietnamese officials have been less effusive, but they seem to agree.
''Vietnam and the United States are enjoying an excellent period of bilateral relations,'' the Vietnamese ambassador to the United States, Le Cong Phung, said in remarks quoted by the official Vietnam News Agency last month.
However, warming relations have been slowed by American concerns over human rights abuses in Vietnam and by Hanoi's suspicion that Washington is using the issue to undermine the Communist government.
The Vietnamese often use the phrases ''peaceful evolution'' and the ''color revolutions,'' expressions that refer to their view that the collapse of the Soviet Union and other European Communist governments was brought about at least partly by outside support for democracy and human rights.
The competing concerns involving human rights renew themselves in something of a vicious circle. Vietnam's fear of American motives leads to the arrests of dissidents it sees as connected with the West. And those arrests in turn intensify concerns of the United States over human rights abuses.
The two nations' alignment on the issue of the South China Sea illustrates the emergence of a more forward-looking relationship, said Kim Ninh, the country representative in Vietnam for The Asia Foundation, which is based in San Francisco.
For the United States, the chief issue from the past continues to be a full accounting for military service members still missing from the war, though that concern no longer carries the power that it once did.
For Vietnam, the chief remaining postwar issue is a demand for greater American assistance in addressing the effects of Agent Orange, a chemical defoliant that was sprayed in parts of the country, causing widespread birth defects.
Mr. Duong of the Foreign Ministry said these postwar issues remained ''very relevant.''
''In terms of defense relations, we still need to settle the issues of the past so as to build trust to move toward the future,'' he said.
But he said that bilateral relations ''have never been better'' and that ''they can only go upward. They cannot go downward.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton on a visit to Hanoi, Vietnam, in July. (POOL PHOTO BY NA SON-NGUYEN)
 Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates was seated for lunch on Tuesday during a meeting of Asian defense ministers in Hanoi. (POOL PHOTO BY CAROLYN KASTER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN POLICY (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); VIETNAM WAR (79%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); MARINE VESSELS (70%); FREEDOM OF THE SEAS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); ADMIRALTY LAW (65%); FINES & PENALTIES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS (56%)

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HANOI, VIETNAM (92%) SOUTH CHINA SEA (93%); PACIFIC OCEAN (92%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%) VIET NAM (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (93%); VIETNAM (92%); TAIWAN (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); TIBET (79%); PARACEL ISLANDS (58%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2010



333 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 974 words

HEADLINE: Stand Against Earmarks Grows Lonely as Home State Sees a Need

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

 BODY:
MOUNT PLEASANT, S.C. -- Mike Murphree is as sympathetic as anyone to Senator Jim DeMint and his crusade against earmarks, those pet projects financed by Congress, usually out of the public eye. Mr. Murphree is chairman of the Charleston Tea Party and sees earmarks as a root cause of overspending and political corruption.
But even Mr. Murphree, 48, a general contractor, has split with Mr. DeMint on one particular earmark that many here see as vital to the region. It would advance plans to deepen the Port of Charleston, just outside the city limits, to accommodate the mega cargo ships that will be calling once the Panama Canal is expanded in 2014. 
Mr. Murphree said that the local Tea Party was divided over the earmark and that he had come down reluctantly for it. ''If we had more time and didn't have to go through all this federal rigmarole, we'd hunker down and stop the earmarks,'' he said in an interview. ''But we don't have that luxury.''
Securing the money -- $400,000 for the Army Corps of Engineers to conduct a feasibility study -- has widespread support throughout the state. Nikki Haley, the Republican nominee for governor, said last month that she would ''do what it takes to get the money.''
Senator DeMint, a conservative Republican who is expected to win re-election easily in November, says he supports deepening the harbor, too. But he is a purist against earmarks and has not actively sought this one. He is focused instead on trying to change the system, including the one that essentially forces states to go through the federal earmark process for financing for ports.
His lack of support for the earmark, requested by the state's senior senator, Lindsey Graham, appears to have stymied the port's plans and left Mr. DeMint -- who tilts against the Republican establishment almost as much as he does against the Democrats -- increasingly isolated on the matter. And the episode shows how hard it can be to upend an entrenched process like earmarks.
''I'm all for change and all for reform,'' Mr. Graham, also a Republican, said in an interview. ''But this is where the reality of governing rears its ugly head.''
He said the Senate, which recently approved earmarks for port projects in other states, was reluctant to approve an item like this unless both senators from a state supported it.
The dredging is urgent, officials say, because the expanded Panama Canal will significantly alter global shipping patterns. Mega ships, including those from Asia, will be able to deliver cargo directly to the East Coast instead of moving it overland from West Coast ports.
The port here already hosts some of the bigger cargo ships but can do so only at high tide; to remain competitive, officials say, it needs to be dredged about five feet deeper so those ships can be loaded around the clock. If not, the port and the region could lose billions of dollars in commerce and thousands of jobs; one in five jobs in South Carolina is now connected directly or indirectly to the port.
Mr. DeMint, who declined to be interviewed for this article, wrote last week to his supporters that the Charleston port study was ''worthwhile'' but that various senators were holding it hostage because he had not supported what he called pork-barrel projects in their states.
''I'm not willing to bankrupt my country for earmarks,'' he wrote.
Senator Byron L. Dorgan, the North Dakota Democrat who is chairman of the appropriations subcommittee that denied Mr. Graham's financing request, said both senators needed to be on board. ''It is our general policy that if there is not unity among senators from a state about funding requests, we would not proceed to fund it,'' Mr. Dorgan wrote in a letter to The Post and Courier in Charleston in response to an earlier suggestion from Mr. DeMint that the committee was being vindictive.
Mr. DeMint has doubted this explanation, noting that Mr. Graham, for one, had secured financing for other earmarks that only he requested. DeMint supporters say the Democrats are playing politics, trying to box Mr. DeMint into a corner and portray him as putting his state's economy at risk.
The House has approved the financing; Mr. Graham said he was lobbying the Senate and hoping it would provide the money one way or another. He said that shipping lines were already signing contracts for 2014 and that if the dredging at Charleston was not on track, the port would fall irreparably behind other regional ports.
Bill Stern, chairman of the South Carolina State Ports Authority, said the state could not pay for the study on its own because that would commit state taxpayers, who are already paying for part of the project, to much larger costs down the road (a point the DeMint camp disputes). The dredging would cost more than $250 million, and maintaining the harbor would cost $10 million annually.
''This is a federal channel,'' Mr. Stern said. ''Why should we burden our state taxpayers with this when all other states with ports don't have to? Senator DeMint's heart is in the right place, but he's wrong on this issue.''
Local residents having lunch the other day at the Long Point Grill near the port more or less agreed.
Sharon Barnett, 67, a retired scientist who sails the harbor with her husband, said she was worried about increased pollution in the water as well as from all the trucks going in and out of the port. Still, she said, she sees the dredging as vital to the economy and while she believed Mr. DeMint was ''trying to live up to his principles,'' the earmark seemed the only option.
Another diner was Peter Wertimer, 61, a marketing executive and past chairman of the Charleston Metro Chamber of Commerce, which has endorsed the dredging project.
''Find the money,'' Mr. Wertimer said. ''Allow the earmark. This is not an abuse. This is not a bridge to nowhere. This is a bridge to somewhere.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Jim DeMint opposes federal earmarks, even for an important port project in his home state, South Carolina. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LUKE SHARRETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 ANNE McQUARY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MARINE SHIPPING (89%); HARBORS & PORTS (89%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); COASTAL AREAS (83%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); MARINE & WATERWAY CONSTRUCTION (76%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); APPROVALS (69%); ARMIES (69%); ENGINEERING (66%)

ORGANIZATION: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (55%)

PERSON: JIM DEMINT (90%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (58%); NIKKI HALEY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (93%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); PANAMA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2010



334 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: The Unfair Game

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

 BODY:
WASHINGTON
As Barack Obama struggles to rekindle the magic, one of the most pathetic headlines was the one on a CNN poll last week: ''Was Bush Better President Than Obama?''
''Americans are divided over whether President Barack Obama or his predecessor has performed better in the White House,'' the CNN article said.
So now the Republican president who bungled wars and the economy and the Democratic president trying to dig us out are in a dead heat? 
America's long-term economic woe has led to short-term memory loss. Republicans are still popular, and the candidates are crazier than ever. And crazy is paying dividends: Sharron Angle, the extreme Republican candidate for the Senate in Nevada, vacuumed up $14 million in the last quarter in her crusade to knock out Harry Reid -- the kind of money that presidential candidates dream of collecting.
Karl Rove has put together a potent operation to use anonymous donors to flood the airwaves with attack ads against Democrats. And a gaunt-looking Dick Cheney is out of the hospital and back to raking in money defending torture and pre-emptive war. He, Lynne Cheney, Rove, Sarah Palin, Newt Gingrich and Laura Bush drew more than 10,000 people at $495 a pop to a conference in Bakersfield, Calif., last weekend.
Republicans are also gearing up to start re-sliming Valerie Plame Wilson and Joe Wilson when ''Fair Game,'' the movie based on their memoirs, opens next month. Robert Luskin, a lawyer for Rove who considered Plame collateral damage and labeled her ''fair game,'' dismissively told Sheryl Gay Stolberg of The Times that the Wilsons are ''a little past their 'sell-by' date.''
It's hard to believe that it was seven years ago when the scandal of the Glamorous Spy and Showboating Ambassador exploded. Joe Wilson first accused the Boy Emperor of not wearing any clothes on the Iraq W.M.D.'s, and then charged the Bush White House with running a ''smear campaign'' against him and outing his wife as a C.I.A. spy. He was right on all counts and brave to take on a White House that broke creative new ground in thuggery and skulduggery.
But it was child's play for the Republicans to undermine the former diplomat and the spy who loved him. Wilson was ''pretty widely known as a loudmouth,'' as the movie's director Doug Liman put it, and overstepped at times, posing for Vanity Fair in his Jaguar convertible with his wife coyly cloaked in scarf and sunglasses.
While her husband was in his promotional whirlwind, Plame was in her reticent cloud, her air of blonde placidity belying her anguish at being betrayed and her disgust that Cheney Inc. bullied the C.I.A., overriding skepticism about Saddam's weapons system and warping intelligence.
''It's called counterproliferation, Jack,'' Naomi Watts's Plame says to her superior. ''Counter.''
The movie makes clear that Plame was not merely ''a secretary'' or ''mediocre agent'' at the agency, as partisan critics charged at the time, but a respected undercover spy tracking Iraqi W.M.D. efforts.
And it reiterates that Plame did not send her husband, who had worked in embassies in Iraq while Saddam and Bush Senior were in charge and was the ambassador in two African countries, on the fact-finding trip to Niger about a possible Iraqi purchase of 500 tons of yellowcake uranium. She merely acted as an intermediary when a colleague threw his name into the hat for the unpaid gig.
The film creates composites to heighten the tension and suggests that Plame's Iraqi contacts and their families were murdered once she was outed -- a subplot Variety called ''apocryphal and manipulative.''
But the movie is a vivid reminder of one of the most egregious abuses of power in history, and there are deliciously diabolical turns by actors playing Scooter Libby, David Addington and Rove. Plame's C.I.A. bosses are portraits in cravenness, cutting her loose at the moment she starts receiving death threats and her Iraqi sources become endangered.
Liman, who grew up watching his father Arthur's Buddha-like interrogations during the Iran-Contra hearings, does not use an Oliver Stone sledgehammer on history. He views the scandal through the lens of the Wilsons' marriage, which snaps for a time under the strain of being hounded by the most powerful men on earth.
(As Valerie writes in her book about Joe's demand to see Rove ''frog-marched out of the White House in handcuffs'': ''Husbands. What can you do?'')
Costumed with lush mane and round paunch, Sean Penn is well suited to capture Wilson's arrogance and mouthiness, while also showing his honesty, brazenness, sly charm and fierce love of wife and country.
They were the Girl and Boy Who Kicked the Hornet's Nest, and we should all remember what flew out.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (77%); FILM DIRECTORS (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOE WILSON (89%); KARL ROVE (77%); SARAH PALIN (58%); HARRY REID (57%); DICK CHENEY (57%); NEWT GINGRICH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAKERSFIELD, CA, USA (69%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2010



335 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; MICHIGAN; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: Classic Candidate Differences Present a Stark Choice

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

 BODY:
IRON MOUNTAIN, Mich. -- Differences between the Democratic and Republican candidates to succeed Representative Bart Stupak are as big as the vast expanse of northern Michigan that he has represented for the last 18 years.
The Democrat, Gary McDowell, from a small town at the eastern end of the Upper Peninsula, near Sault Ste. Marie, is a Teamster who drove a United Parcel Service truck for 33 years. He served on his county board of commissioners for 22 years and is completing six years in the state House of Representatives.
Dan Benishek, the Republican, is a surgeon from Crystal Falls, near Iron Mountain on the western side of the district, more than 225 miles from Mr. McDowell's home. Mr. Benishek boasts that he is not a career politician and has not held political office. 
Republican chances to win the seat increased when Mr. Stupak, a Democrat, announced on April 9 that he would not seek a 10th term.
The Benishek campaign may also be helped by the strength of the Republican candidate for governor, Rick Snyder. Polls show Mr. Snyder with a wide lead over his Democratic opponent, Virg Bernero, in the race to succeed Gov. Jennifer M. Granholm, a Democrat.
The candidates here typify the stark choices facing voters in many competitive districts across the country. Mr. Benishek advocates less government, less regulation and lower taxes. He vows to repeal the new health care law. He promises to resist what he calls ''the socialist agenda'' of President Obama, Congressional Democrats and their labor union allies. He supports Arizona's tough immigration enforcement law. And he was endorsed this week by Sarah Palin, the former governor of Alaska.
His unguarded comments in the primary campaign provided fodder for Democrats asserting that he would privatize Social Security and Medicare -- a potentially potent argument in a district where more than one-fourth of the people are on Social Security.
Mr. McDowell boasts of his work with Republicans in the State Legislature. He supports the new health care law, but says he is open to changes if some provisions do not work. He would try to end tax breaks for companies that send jobs overseas, and says he would ''take a step back from free-trade deals'' to examine how best to help American manufacturing.
Both candidates support gun rights and oppose abortion rights. Each candidate says the other is too extreme for the First Congressional District, which accounts for 44 percent of Michigan's land area but has no city with a population greater than 21,000.
One ad, by the National Republican Congressional Committee, portrays Mr. McDowell as an acolyte of Speaker Nancy Pelosi, on the assumption that she has few fans in this rural, socially conservative district.
In an interview at his campaign office here, Mr. McDowell, a hay farmer, said his roots were firmly in the Upper Peninsula, where his family has lived for five generations.
''I do not know the speaker,'' Mr. McDowell said. ''I've never talked to the speaker. I have no relationship with Speaker Pelosi. This race is not about her. It's about creating good middle-class jobs. It's about protecting Social Security and Medicare.''
Mr. Benishek sums up the theme of his campaign in three words: ''Enough is enough.'' He elaborates: ''Enough of the waste. Enough of the spending. Enough of the debt. Enough of the arrogance in Washington, D.C.''
In a recent blog post at the conservative Web site RedState.com, Mr. Benishek said he offered an alternative to the agenda that he said was being pushed by unions, progressive Democrats and ''their socialist/Communist supporters.''
''Once President Obama was elected, the pace accelerated for the socialist agenda,'' Mr. Benishek wrote. He said Mr. McDowell was ''seeking the same agenda as Obama, Pelosi'' and the Senate Democratic leader, Harry Reid of Nevada.
Mr. McDowell said: ''I personally don't know any socialists or Communists. We are proud, we are independent here in northern Michigan. But we do believe in social justice, in community, in helping each other out in tough times.''
Mark T. Gaffney, president of Michigan State A.F.L.-C.I.O., said: ''Gary has the right profile for the district. But he is struggling a bit because of the environment. Voters across the country are angry. In northern Michigan, they are very angry because of the loss of jobs.''
Michigan has the nation's second-highest unemployment rate, after Nevada. The rate is even higher in parts of northern Michigan that have lost jobs in the paper, forest products and auto-parts industries.
Mr. Benishek said he decided to run for the House after Congress passed ''that so-called stimulus bill, which has stimulated nothing but government.''
He said Mr. Stupak had betrayed the district by agreeing to a compromise on abortion as part of the health care legislation.
And Mr. Benishek calls for stricter control of the borders. ''Illegal immigrants are using our resources, taking our jobs, filling our schools, our hospitals and our prisons,'' he said, ''and we are paying for it all.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: MICHIGAN: Gary McDowell, left, a Democratic candidate for an open House seat, and his opponent, Dan Benishek, right.
Voters at a candidate forum in Kingsford, Mich., and tokens of allegiance in Iron Mountain. Candidates are vying for an open seat. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NARAYAN MAHON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP
 CHART: Michigan House Race: Voters face a stark choice as a conservative Republican surgeon faces off against a Democratic state legislator in race to succeed Representative Bart Stupak. Candidates clash on substance and style. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (86%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); PRIVATIZATION (75%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); COUNTIES (71%); TAX LAW (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); GUN CONTROL (65%); MEDICARE (65%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (64%); IMMIGRATION LAW (64%); RIGHT TO BEAR ARMS (60%); IMMIGRATION (50%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); ABORTION (50%); LABOR UNIONS (50%)

COMPANY: UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (57%)

TICKER: UPS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (57%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (57%)

PERSON: BART STUPAK (90%); DAN BENISHEK (90%); RICK SNYDER (73%); SARAH PALIN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); NANCY PELOSI (58%); JENNIFER GRANHOLM (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAULT STE MARIE, MI, USA (90%); SAULT STE MARIE, ON, CANADA (90%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); ONTARIO, CANADA (90%); ALASKA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2010



336 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 733 words

HEADLINE: Chinese and Americans Soften Tone on Disputed Seas

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER

 BODY:
HANOI, Vietnam -- The United States and China sought to defuse tensions over disputed territorial seas on Tuesday, with Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates urging nations to honor historic rights of free transit through international waters and his Chinese counterpart saying the region had nothing to fear from Beijing's armed forces.
At a forum of Asian defense ministers here, Mr. Gates was emphatic in calling on all countries that share the South China Sea to renounce threats or coercion in resolving their competing claims of sovereignty over transit lanes, fishing rights, territory and undersea resources. 
But he was also diplomatic, insisting that the United States did not take sides in such disputes and not specifically naming China as the perceived aggressor. In a recent round of disagreements, China has for the past three weeks cut off shipments to Japan of rare earth minerals, crucial to that country's auto, electronics and clean energy industries.
Beijing's delegation to the meeting -- a gathering of ministers from the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, plus representatives of Russia and China -- also spoke in measured terms, emphasizing that China's military growth was not a threat.
China's message, while delivered in broad, nonspecific terms, was interpreted as representing an effort to calm concerns over Beijing's maritime intentions.
Even so, representatives of seven nations raised the issue of how to guarantee maritime security for all countries sharing the South China Sea. The disputes have particularly upset Vietnamese and Japanese relations with China.
Mr. Gates warned that disputes over the oceans and their resources were ''a growing challenge to regional stability and prosperity,'' and he said that the United States had ''a national interest in freedom of navigation, in unimpeded economic development and commerce, and in respect for international law.'' But he also noted that ''the United States does not take sides on competing territorial claims, such as those in the South China Sea.''
The central theme of his comments was that ''competing claims should be settled peacefully, without force or coercion, through collaborative diplomatic processes and in keeping with customary international law.''
Beijing's representative to the conference, Liang Guanglie, the Chinese defense minister, called for ''mutual trust'' throughout the region, and said neighbors needed not fear his nation's military.
''China's defense development is not aimed to challenge or threaten anyone, but to ensure its security and promote international and regional peace and stability,'' he said. ''China pursues a defense policy that is defensive in nature.''
United States officials who track Chinese public statements noted that the general did not describe the South China Sea as a region of ''core interests,'' as China had in the past. A senior Defense Department official said that a sense of crisis over the feuding territorial claims had diminished.
''It does appear that the countries that are concerned about this issue are trying to think their way and feel their way towards a more positive approach,'' the senior Pentagon official said, speaking on standard diplomatic ground rules of anonymity to describe American assessments of the Chinese comments. The official acknowledged, though, that ''very tough questions'' remained.
On Monday, in another sign of easing tensions, Mr. Liang, the Chinese defense minister, invited Mr. Gates to visit Beijing.
Mr. Gates, in his statement, noted that both long-established practices and the official treaty provided clear guidance on ''appropriate use of the maritime domain, and rights of access to it.''
''By adhering to this guidance, we can ensure that all share equal and open access to international waterways,'' Mr. Gates said.
China has sought through words and actions to extend its territorial claims beyond the 12-nautical-mile limit accepted through customary international law and codified by the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. The convention has been signed and ratified by about 160 nations, but it is frozen in the United States Congress, despite the support of the Defense Department and the Department of the Navy.
Pentagon officials are never eager for a comparison of the United States to the other nations that also have not ratified the sea pact -- a group that includes North Korea and Iran.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (89%); OCEANS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); FREEDOM OF THE SEAS (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); FISHING TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (93%); HANOI, VIETNAM (92%) PACIFIC OCEAN (94%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); SOUTH CHINA SEA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (94%); VIETNAM (92%); VIET NAM (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); ASIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2010



337 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1185 words

HEADLINE: M.I.T.'s Makeover for the 21st Century

BYLINE: By SUSAN DIESENHOUSE

 BODY:
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. -- Not so long ago, the campus of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology was a hodgepodge of bunkerlike academic buildings, converted World War I-era factories, parking lots and even an occasional Quonset hut. But a 10-year development plan, nearly complete at a cost of $1.4 billion, has set a new mood -- avant-garde -- with 10 buildings by architects like Frank Gehry, Steven Holl and Fumihiko Maki, as well as a revamped streetscape.
The transformation was made possible by donations, portfolio investments and other financing sources like tax-exempt bonds -- as well as profits from M.I.T.'s commercial real estate activities, many in its own Kendall Square/East Cambridge neighborhood. The university owns about six million square feet of commercial real estate in the neighborhood, in addition to the 11 million square feet that make up its 160-acre campus.
The president of M.I.T., Susan Hockfield, said, ''The physical campus was not keeping pace with the leading-edge research of our scientists and engineers.'' 
The university's property investments, on and off its campus, have in turn drawn other investors and tenants from around the world. That has helped lift East Cambridge out of its postindustrial doldrums, turning it into a submarket with global cachet. Just this year, Microsoft, Google and Sanofi-Aventis all leased space here. A few years ago, Novartis moved its global research headquarters from Basel, Switzerland, to a building owned by M.I.T. next to the campus in Kendall Square.
''M.I.T. is instrumental in the success of Kendall Square as a commercial real estate market,'' said Hans G. Nordby a director of PPR, a CoStar Group company. Since 2003, Mr. Nordby said, 24 percent of the commercial space leased in the metropolitan area has been in Cambridge, although it has only 14 percent of the inventory, and 75 percent of those leases have had a Kendall Square address, he said. Much of the growth has come in the biotechnology sector, which barely existed 20 years ago, he said.
The timing of M.I.T.'s development was fortunate, with most of the financing and plans in place well before the economic slowdown.
''It's very difficult for colleges and universities to do development now with endowments down, the credit crunch, and if they're public institutions, state budget problems,'' said Randall Shearin, the editor of Student Housing Business magazine.
At a time when few major developments have opened on or off campuses, the corner of Main and Vassar Streets in Kendall Square is a showcase of new academic buildings intended to promote innovative research and learning.
''Main and Vassar is one of the most powerful interdisciplinary intersections on the planet,'' said Theresa M. Stone, the institute's executive vice president and treasurer. ''Therefore, leading edge companies want to locate here. We do the research. They develop the drugs.''
In one of the newest buildings on campus, the David H. Koch Institute for Integrative Cancer Research, designed by the architectural firm Ellenzweig, engineers and life science researchers will collaborate in the search for breakthroughs in cancer treatment. Next to it is perhaps the most-recognizable symbol of the new M.I.T., Mr. Gehry's Stata Center, which opened in 2004. It brings together students and researchers immersed in artificial intelligence, linguistics, electrical engineering and computer science. (M.I.T. sued Mr. Gehry and the builder in 2007, after leaks and cracks required repairs. The lawsuit was settled in March.)
By allowing greater collaboration, these additions are changing how teaching and learning are carried out at the institute. At the Koch Center, for example, engineers are using nanoparticles as homing devices to deliver doses of therapies or chemotherapy.
The university's new look also helps its neighborhood, said Peter Bekarian, a senior vice president of Jones Lang LaSalle, a real estate company. ''When M.I.T. enhances its campus, it resonates in the commercial real estate market,'' he said. Mr. Bekarian said Cambridge is recovering from the recession faster than other areas in the region, including downtown Boston, in large part because of activity in Kendall Square.
This year the Kendall Square/East Cambridge market saw a net absorption of 120,000 square feet in the neighborhood's 13 million square-foot office and lab market. To equal that, downtown Boston, a 60 million- square-foot market, would have had to absorb 600,000 square feet. Instead, tenants vacated a million square feet more than they leased, said Rick Cleveland, the managing director for United States research services at Cushman & Wakefield.
Kendall Square's vacancy rate is 11 percent. But in the six premier office towers with river views, it is just 4 percent, and landlords are pushing gross asking rents into the $50-a-square- foot range, about the same as prime space in downtown Boston. About 3 percent of East Cambridge's highest-quality lab space is vacant, and gross rents are about $75, said Mark Winters, an executive director of Cushman & Wakefield.
The institute's commercial property activity here is run by a 16-person team that reports to the president of the M.I.T. Investment Management Company, which oversees the university's $8.3 billion endowment. Profits flow into the endowment, often as unrestricted funds, and are used for general operations, including on-campus construction. And when M.I.T. sells a property, it retains a long-term ground lease. ''We never give up land,'' Ms. Stone said.
About 10 to 12 percent of the endowment is invested in real estate, and about half of it is near the campus.
The institute has already started its next development plan, which may call for a $1 billion investment on campus, although no projects have been authorized yet, Ms. Stone said. The university may develop an additional $1 billion in commercial space off campus, said Steven C. Marsh, managing director of real estate for the M.I.T. Investment Management Company.
As an academic institution, M.I.T. differs from its commercial real estate counterparts because it can invest with a 10- to 20-year strategy rather than having to generate short-term returns.
On the other hand, when opportunity knocks, M.I.T. can answer as nimbly as some of its private competitors.
This year, for example, the institute won two tenants who had been courted by other Cambridge landlords ''very, very hard,'' Mr. Winters said. Last month, Sanofi-Aventis agreed to lease nearly 110,000 square feet in 640 Memorial Drive, an M.I.T. building. The institute also signed up Aileron Therapeutics, a biopharmaceutical company, for 24,000 square feet at 281 Albany Street.
As M.I.T completes the plan for this decade, Mr. Marsh is already working on one for the next 10 years.
M.I.T. has won city approval for a new 410,000-square-foot build-to-suit structure at 610 Main Street and is considering how to enliven the area around the Kendall Square subway stop.
After bringing in so many companies, Mr. Marsh said, ''now we want to focus on developing places for brilliant people to meet and collaborate.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Simmons Hall, a dormitory, is one of 10 modern buildings that went up at M.I.T. over the last decade. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIK JACOBS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (79%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); BUDGETS (76%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (75%); PROPERTY LEASES (74%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (73%); WORLD WAR I (73%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (72%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (70%); CREDIT CRISIS (70%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (70%); STUDENT HOUSING (69%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (68%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); EXECUTIVES (67%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%)

COMPANY: SANOFI SA (82%); NOVARTIS AG (54%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%); GOOGLE INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (84%)

TICKER: SNY (NYSE) (82%); SANF (BIT) (82%); SAN (PAR) (82%); GCVRZ (NASDAQ) (82%); NVS (NYSE) (54%); NOVN (SWX) (54%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (54%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (54%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BASEL, SWITZERLAND (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); SWITZERLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2010



338 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; SOUTH CAROLINA; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: The Power of Incumbency? Don't Try Telling These Congressmen: After 28 Years, on the Ropes

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

 BODY:
FORT MILL, S.C. -- Representative John M. Spratt Jr., a Democrat who has managed to be elected and re-elected in this increasingly red district since 1982, climbed slowly to the podium at a Democratic Party fish fry on Monday night. A couple of hundred party loyalists had finished their Calabash fried shrimp and rose to give him a standing ovation.
''If I were a good lawyer, I would rest my case,'' he began, to chuckles. But his next words were sobering: He said that the man who had introduced him, Jim Hodges, a Democratic governor who was defeated in his 2002 re-election bid, was ''an example of the vagaries of politics -- the good don't always win.'' 
Mr. Spratt, 67, seems to sense that his long career in Washington could be ending, and the polls give him little comfort. Most analysts rate the race a tossup, partly because Mr. Spratt has always beaten the odds. But as chairman of the House Budget Committee, he would be a prized trophy for Republicans, and he went on to plead for help on Election Day. ''I need it as never before,'' he said softly. ''Believe me, believe me.''
This year, Mr. Spratt faces not only a potential anti-incumbent wave but an aggressive challenge from Mick Mulvaney, 43, a state senator who is riding that wave on a Tea Party surfboard. At the same time, Mr. Spratt's presence at events is somewhat diminished by his Parkinson's disease, as his right hand trembles and his speech is sometimes slurred, though he remains mentally sharp.
At a debate here Tuesday at the Fort Mill Golf Club, Mr. Mulvaney shrewdly reframed Mr. Spratt's carefully built career and cast his one-time political assets -- his green-eyeshade expertise with the budget, his ability to work across the aisle, his success in bringing home the bacon -- as crushing liabilities.
''People always ask me, 'What kind of congressman will you be?' '' Mr. Mulvaney said. ''I say, 'I want to be the kind of congressman John Spratt was in 1997,' '' when he helped President Bill Clinton balance the budget.
But now, he said, Mr. Spratt is in the leadership of a big-spending Congress where the budget process has ground to a halt.
''The congressman of 1997 balanced a budget; the chairman in 2010 refused to even offer a budget -- the first budget chairman ever to fail to offer a budget,'' Mr. Mulvaney said. ''This is not the bipartisan John Spratt that you've heard of from the late 1990s and early 2000s; this is the John Spratt that voted with Nancy Pelosi 98 percent of the time.''
His supporters burst into ecstatic applause, which was against the rules, but Mr. Mulvaney's forceful denunciation had come at the end of the debate and there was no stopping the response. Mr. Spratt's supporters were caught flat-footed, partly because his closing statement, delivered earlier, had slipped into the legislative weeds and his message was lost.
Mr. Mulvaney was playing to the changing mood of the country as well as the changing demographics of the district. This is one of the fastest-growing parts of the country and is becoming a bigger and bigger bedroom community of Charlotte, N.C. Some people here, like Mr. Mulvaney himself, have moved from North Carolina seeking lower taxes.
And many are conservative. But they have split their tickets, voting for Republicans in every presidential election for more than two decades while keeping Mr. Spratt in office.
They may be less inclined to do so this time. For one thing, Tea Party-backed Republicans lead in the races for governor and senator. Since he was last re-elected in 2008, Mr. Spratt has supported most of President Obama's agenda, including the health care bill and the stimulus package, both of which are unpopular here, as is Mr. Obama himself. While Mr. Spratt boasts of bringing in jobs, the unemployment rate across the district is higher than the state and national averages.
''There have been even more white, wealthier people moving in, it's an anti-Democratic year and John doesn't have an exciting president at top of the ticket,'' said Scott Huffmon, a political science professor at Winthrop University in Rock Hill.
''All elections are won on turning out the base, and this is the toughest year for John to do that,'' Dr. Huffmon said. ''Mick has a fired-up base ready to go, and John doesn't.''
Democrats hope they can energize black voters, who make up almost 30 percent of the district, but even some loyal Democrats express discouragement.
The campaign is becoming increasingly acrimonious, with both sides spending heavily on television commercials, including millions of dollars from outside groups. Perhaps the most eye-catching is one by Mr. Spratt that shows an elderly woman going to jail and accuses Mr. Mulvaney of wanting to make Social Security illegal. Mr. Mulvaney calls the charge a ''flat-out lie'' but said in an interview that the race could hinge on that commercial.
As Mr. Spratt insisted Monday night, ''There's a lot of fight left in this old dog.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mick Mulvaney
SOUTH CAROLINA: Representative John M. Spratt Jr. at an event. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TRAVIS DOVE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP
 CHART: South Carolina House Race: Representative John M. Spratt Jr., a Democrat and chairman of the House Budget Committee, is struggling to hold his seat for a 15th term against State Senator Mick Mulvaney, who is backed by the Tea Party. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); GOVERNORS (73%); SURFING (72%); PARKINSONS DISEASE (64%); GOLF (63%)

PERSON: MICK MULVANEY (91%); JOHN SPRATT (91%); BILL CLINTON (79%); NANCY PELOSI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2010



339 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; PENNSYLVANIA; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 814 words

HEADLINE: The Power of Incumbency? Don't Try Telling These Congressmen: Same Names, Changed Turf

BYLINE: By ASHLEY PARKER

 BODY:
BRISTOL, Pa. -- Mike Fitzpatrick was talking about Iraq -- to make the point that no one, these days, is talking about Iraq.
''You don't hear a lot of people asking, 'How are we doing in Iraq?' '' said Mr. Fitzpatrick, a Republican trying to recapture the suburban Philadelphia House seat he lost in 2006 after one term to Patrick J. Murphy, a Democrat and the first Iraq war veteran elected to Congress. ''I believe ultimately the 2010 election will be a referendum on the administration, and Murphy is in lock step with the Obama administration.''
Mr. Murphy narrowly beat Mr. Fitzpatrick by linking him to President George W. Bush and the war. Yet even in a banner year for Democrats, who took back the House that November, he won by just 1,521 votes -- less than one percent. 
And if the sentiment then was anti-war and anti-Bush, the rematch, as Mr. Fitzpatrick was quick to point out at a breakfast event Thursday, will turn on the economy and pocket-book issues.
''The issues in the 2010 election are economic -- jobs, spending, deficit,'' he said in an interview in Levittown, where he had just concluded a news conference.
Later in the day, Mr. Murphy was speed-canvassing -- and making many of the same points as his opponent. As the evening sky faded to pink, Mr. Murphy strode briskly along a quiet street in Levittown, the sprawling postwar development built by William Levitt just outside of Philadelphia, bounding up driveways and knocking on doors.
''I'm your local congressman,'' he said as Linda Weischedel eased out her door and cut him off with a smile.
''You don't need to say anything,'' she said, greeting the fresh-faced, Mr. Murphy, 36. ''You've already got my vote.''
But winning over every voter in the area, where Mr. Murphy is seeking a third term, will not be quite as simple. As he told person after person: ''I'd appreciate your vote --I have a tough election in 25 days.''
The district, which includes all of Bucks County and slivers of Montgomery County and Northeast Philadelphia, has voted Democratic in presidential elections since 1992 -- Mr. Obama took 54 percent of the vote -- and the Philadelphia suburbs have not been kind to Republicans in recent years. But Mr. Fitzpatrick is benefiting from the anti-incumbent mood sweeping the country.
Mr. Fitzpatrick has been hitting his opponent for votes he took on the major issues of the Obama administration. ''Cash for clunkers, Obamacare, stimulus--no jobs,'' Mr. Fitzpatrick said, a mug of black coffee in his right hand as he maneuvered between tables, rattling off a list of policies Mr. Murphy supported. ''We've wasted a lot of money in the past few years.''
A little over five miles south, near the banks of the Delaware River in Bristol, Mr. Murphy defended his time in Congress, talking about the ''3,000 jobs'' he said he had brought to Bucks County, before quickly adding: ''But I want to be very clear. We still have a lot of work to do.'' He said Mr. Fitzpatrick needed to explain his own House record, including his vote for the Central American Free Trade Agreement.
''My opponent can't complain about unemployment when he outsourced jobs,'' he said.
Knocking on doors, Mr. Murphy alternated between rallying the base (''I like your crucifix. I got one as well.''), attacking Mr. Fitzpatrick (''He tried to privatize Social Security. Can you imagine if that had happened with my opponent and Bush?''), and asking voters if he could drop off a Murphy sign for their yard.
Kimberly Andruzzi, 37, a retail supervisor at Wal-Mart, said the congressman had her support but hesitated when he made his request about the lawn sign. She was not sure what her husband, who recently had his wages cut, would think.
''He was a little upset with Obama, I'm not going to lie,'' she said.
Mr. Murphy has nearly three times as much cash on hand as Mr. Fitzpatrick has, but unlike many challengers, Mr. Fitzpatrick already has strong name recognition. At the breakfast, everyone seemed to know him -- and his entire family.
''Known him almost all my life,'' said Dolores Moench, as Mr. Fitzpatrick squeezed into a booth next to her. ''His children worked for me in the rectory.'' She asked about ''Kathy's foot,'' and nodded approvingly when told it was ''on the mend.'' (Mr. Fitzpatrick's wife, Kathy, had tripped while chasing their cat.)
And then there are those who don't know what to think. Sitting in her car on Mill Street, the sleepy main thoroughfare that runs through downtown Bristol -- past Mr. Murphy's campaign headquarters with the American flag out front and past more than a half-dozen closed storefronts with ''For Lease'' signs in the window -- Norma Santiago, 50, said she voted for Mr. Fitzpatrick in 2006 but Mr. Murphy in 2008. She was laid off from her factory job in January, and now is not sure whom to choose.
''I'm not much of a politician,'' she said, sighing. ''All I know is I need a job.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mike Fitzpatrick
PENNSYLVANIA: Representative Patrick J. Murphy, a Democrat, went door to door last week in his struggle to retain his seat. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP
 CHART: Pennsylvania House Race: Patrick Murphy unseated Mike Fitzpatrick on an anti-Iraq, anti-Bush wave in 2006 by less than one percent of the vote. Now Mr. Fitzpatrick is back, and with the focus closer to home (the economy, jobs), the race is just as close. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); IRAQ WAR (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); INTERVIEWS (74%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (70%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (70%); REFERENDUMS (70%)

PERSON: MIKE FITZPATRICK (93%); PATRICK J MURPHY (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); BARACK OBAMA (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (93%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2010



340 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 294 words

HEADLINE: Intel's Quarterly Profit Topped Forecasts

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) -- The chipmaker Intel posted stronger-than-expected third-quarter results on Tuesday and said its sales could rise about 2.7 percent sequentially in the final quarter of the year. 
The first major technology company to post its third-quarter results, Intel forecast revenue of $11 billion to $11.8 billion in the final three months of 2010, in line with analysts' expectations of $11.32 billion, according to Thomson Reuters.
Third-quarter net profit was $2.955 billion, or 52 cents a share, compared with $1.86 billion in the year-ago quarter. That was slightly higher than the 50 cents a share expected by analysts.
''It looks fairly well in line with consensus, a little upside,'' said Chris Caso, an analyst at the Susquehanna Financial Group. ''The revenue guidance for the December quarter is about in line with the Street, or a little better.''
Since the bellwether Intel warned in August about weak consumer demand for personal computers, semiconductor stocks have surged in part on expectations that the worst may be over for the technology sector, and investors are looking for signs of strength to back their bets -- or sell.
Intel's revenue in the quarter ended on Sept 25 was $11.1 billion, a bit above the $10.99 billion expected by analysts.
The PC industry has struggled with soft demand in the United States and Europe as well as rising inventories for chips and other components that have led some customers to reduce their orders for new parts.
Global semiconductor sales could grow 5 percent next year as the economy continues to struggle, according to market research firm iSuppli.
Intel's results were buoyed by a 3 percent sequential increase in data center sales in the quarter, a business with higher margins than chips for PCs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ELECTRONICS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (89%); COMPUTER CHIPS (89%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (76%); MARKET RESEARCH (76%); INVENTORIES (73%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (72%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (72%); COMPUTER MAKERS (68%); SEMICONDUCTORS (67%)

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (98%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (98%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (78%); EUROPE (66%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2010



341 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2514 words

HEADLINE: Across the U.S., a Long Recovery Looks Much Like a Recession

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POWELL and MOTOKO RICH

 BODY:
This is not what a recovery is supposed to look like.
In Atlanta, the Bank of America tower, the tallest in the Southeast, is nearly a fifth vacant, and bank officials just wrestled a rent cut from the developer. In Cherry Hill, N.J., 10 percent of the houses on the market are so-called short sales, in which sellers ask for less than they owe lenders. And in Arizona, in sun-blasted desert subdivisions, owners speak of hours cut, jobs lost and meals at soup kitchens.
Less than a month before November elections, the United States is mired in a grim New Normal that could last for years. That has policy makers, particularly the Federal Reserve, considering a range of ever more extreme measures, as noted in the minutes of its last meeting, released Tuesday. Call it recession or recovery, for tens of millions of Americans, there's little difference.
Born of a record financial collapse, this recession has been more severe than any since the Great Depression and has left an enormous oversupply of houses and office buildings and crippling debt. The decision last week by leading mortgage lenders to freeze foreclosures, and calls for a national moratorium, could cast a long shadow of uncertainty over banks and the housing market. Put simply, the national economy has fallen so far that it could take years to climb back. 
The math yields somber conclusions, with implications not just for this autumn's elections but also -- barring a policy surprise or economic upturn -- for 2012 as well:
At the current rate of job creation, the nation would need nine more years to recapture the jobs lost during the recession. And that doesn't even account for five million or six million jobs needed in that time to keep pace with an expanding population. Even top Obama officials concede the unemployment rate could climb higher still.
Median house prices have dropped 20 percent since 2005. Given an inflation rate of about 2 percent -- a common forecast -- it would take 13 years for housing prices to climb back to their peak, according to Allen L. Sinai, chief global economist at the consulting firm Decision Economics.
Commercial vacancies are soaring, and it could take a decade to absorb the excess in many of the largest cities. The vacancy rate, as of the end of June, stands at 21.4 percent in Phoenix, 19.7 percent in Las Vegas, 18.3 in Dallas/Fort Worth and 17.3 percent in Atlanta, in each case higher than last year, according to the data firm CoStar Group.
Demand is inert. Consumer confidence has tumbled as many are afraid or unable to spend. Families are still paying off -- or walking away from -- debt. Mark Zandi, chief economist of Moody's Analytics, estimates it will be the end of 2011 before the amount of income that households pay in interest recedes to levels seen before the run-up. Credit card delinquencies are rising.
''No wonder Americans are pessimistic and unhappy,'' said Mr. Sinai. ''The only way we are going to get in gear is to face up to the reality that we are entering a period of austerity.''
This dreary accounting should not suggest a nation without strengths. Unemployment rates have come down from their peaks in swaths of the United States, from Vermont to Minnesota to Wisconsin. Port traffic has increased, and employers have created an average of 68,111 jobs a month this year.
After plummeting in 2009, the stock market has spiraled up, buoying retirement accounts and perhaps the spirits of middle-class Americans. As a measure of economic health, though, that gain is overstated. Robert Reich, the former labor secretary, notes that the most profitable companies in the domestic stock indexes generate about 40 percent of their revenue from abroad.
Few doubt the American economy remains capable of electrifying growth, but few expect that any time soon. ''We still have a lot of strengths, from a culture of entrepreneurship and venture capitalism, to flexible labor markets and attracting immigrants,'' said Barry Eichengreen, an economist at the University of California, Berkeley. ''But we're going to be living with the overhang of our financial and debt problems for a long, long time to come.''
New shocks could push the nation into another recession or deflation. ''We are in a situation where our vulnerability to any new problem is great,'' said Carmen M. Reinhart, a professor of economics at the University of Maryland.
So troubles ripple outward, as lost jobs, unsold houses and empty offices weigh down the economy and upend lives. Struggles in Arizona, New Jersey and Georgia echo broadly.
Florence, Ariz.
In 2005, Arizona ranked, as usual, second nationally in job growth behind Nevada, its economy predicated on growth. The snowbirds came and construction boomed and land stretched endless and cheap. Then it stopped.
This year, Arizona ranks 42nd in job growth. It has lost 287,000 jobs since the recession began, and the fall has been calamitous.
Renee Wheaton, 38, sits in an old golf cart on the corner of Tangerine and Barley Roads in her subdivision in the desert, an hour south of Phoenix. Her next-door neighbor, an engineer, just lost his job. The man across the street is unemployed.
Her family is not doing so well either. Her husband's hours have been cut by 15 percent, leaving her family of five behind on water and credit card bills -- more or less on everything except the house and car payment. She teaches art, but that's not much in demand.
''I say to myself 'This can't be happening to us: We saved, we worked hard and we're under tremendous stress,' '' Ms. Wheaton says. ''My husband is a very hard-working man but for the first time, he's having real trouble.''
Arizona's poverty rate has jumped to 19.6 percent, the second-highest in the nation after Mississippi. The Association of Arizona Food Banks says demand has nearly doubled in the last 18 months.
Elliott D. Pollack, one of Arizona's foremost economic forecasters, said: ''You had an implosion of every sector needed to survive. That's not going to get better fast.''
To wander exurban Pinal County, which is where Florence is located, is to find that the unemployment rate tells just half the story. Everywhere, subdivisions sit in the desert, some half-built and some dreamy wisps, like the emerald green putting green sitting amid acres of scrub and cacti. Signs offer discounts, distress sales and rent with the first and second month free.
Discounts do not help if your income is cut in half. Construction workers speak of stringing together 20-hour weeks with odd jobs, and a 45-year-old woman who was a real estate agent talks of her job making minimum wage bathing elderly patients. Many live close to the poverty line, without the conveniences they once took for granted. Pinal's unemployment rate, like that of Arizona, stands at 9.7 percent, but state officials say that the real rate rises closer to 20 percent when part-timers and those who have stopped looking for work are added in.
At an elementary school near Ms. Wheaton's home, an expansion of the school's water supply was under way until thieves sneaked in at night and tore the copper pipes out of the ground to sell for scrap.
Five miles southwest, in Coolidge, a desert town within view of the distant Superstition Mountains, demand has tripled at Tom Hunt's food pantry. Some days he runs out.
Henry Alejandrez, 60, is a roofer who migrated from Texas looking for work. ''It's gotten real bad,'' he says. ''I'm a citizen, and you're lucky if you get minimum wage.''
Mary Sepeda, his sister, nods. She used to drive two hours to clean newly constructed homes before they were sold. That job evaporated with the housing market. (Arizona issued 62,500 housing permits several years ago; it gave out 8,400 last year.)
''It's getting crazy,'' she says, holding up a white plastic bag of pantry food. ''How does this end?''
You put that question to Mr. Pollack, the forecaster. ''We won't recover until we absorb 80,000 empty houses and office buildings and people can borrow again,'' he says.
When will that be?
''I'm forecasting recovery by 2013 to 2015,'' he says.
Cherry Hill, N.J.
The housing market in this bedroom community just across the border from Philadelphia never leapt to the frenzied heights of Miami Beach or Las Vegas. But even if foreclosure notices are not tacked to every other door, a malaise has settled over the market. Home prices have fallen by 16 percent since 2006, and houses now take twice as long to sell as they did five years ago.
That's enough to inflict pain on homeowners who need to sell because of a job loss or drop in income. Some are being forced to get rid of their houses in short sales, asking less than they owe on a mortgage. As of last week, 10 percent of all listings in this well-tended suburb were being offered as short sales.
Chrysanthemums bloomed in boxes on the porch of one of those homes as a real estate broker unlocked the front door. In the kitchen, children's chores were listed neatly on an erasable white board. Dinner simmered in a Crock-Pot on the counter.
There were few signs of the financial distress that prompted the owners to put their four-bedroom colonial on the market for less than they paid five years ago.
The colonial's owners, James and Patricia Furrow, bought near the top of the market in 2005 for $289,900. Mr. Furrow, 48, retired in July after 26 years as a corrections officer and supplements his pension with work as a handyman. But his income is spotty, and his wife, who works in a school cafeteria, does not earn enough to cover the mortgage on the house where they live with their three children.
They have already missed a payment; they want to sell the house in hopes their lender will forgive the shortfall between their loan balance and the lower sale price. They are asking $279,900.
''When we did buy, the market was still moving pretty good,'' said Mr. Furrow. ''Then it got to the point where people said it is not going to last. And of course it didn't last.''
Some of the homes being offered at distressed prices are dragging down prices for less troubled homeowners who hope to sell. And with foreclosures now in disarray, the market could be further weakened. ''Even someone who is trying to sell a normal, well-maintained house is at the mercy of these low prices,'' said Walter Bud Crane, an agent with Re/Max of Cherry Hill.
So the houses sit, awaiting offers that rarely materialize. According to Mr. Crane, the average number of days that homes sit on the market has nearly doubled, to 62 this year from 32 in 2005. Buyers are chary, not sure if their jobs are secure. Open houses draw sparse crowds.
In Camden County, where Cherry Hill sits, unemployment is near 10 percent. Several large employers have closed or conducted huge layoffs, and others have pruned hours. With Gov. Chris Christie reining in spending, government workers are jittery.
Real estate agents say it has rarely been a better time to buy: interest rates are at record lows, house prices have fallen and the selection is large.
Tara Stewart-Becker, a 28-year-old financial services manager, said she and her husband would love to buy a sprawling fixer-upper just three blocks from the narrow colonial they purchased four years ago in Riverton, which backs onto the Delaware River.
But a bad kitchen flood and a loan to pay for repairs has left Ms. Becker and her husband, Eric, owing more on their mortgage than the house is currently worth. Even though the couple make far more money than they did when they bought their house and could afford a larger loan and renovations, they cannot sell.
''I would gladly take a new mortgage and stimulate the economy for the rest of my life,'' Ms. Becker said.
''Unfortunately, there isn't anything that a government or a bank can do,'' she added. ''You just have to settle for less and wait.''
Atlanta
Long fast-growing, no-holds-barred Atlanta has burned to the ground before, figuratively and in reality, and each time it was a phoenix rising. But this recession has cut deeper than any since the Great Depression and left Atlanta's commercial and high-end condo real estate in an economic coma.
Over all, assuming a robust growth rate, industry leaders say it could take 12 years for Atlanta to absorb excess commercial space.
''That one -- see it?'' Alan Wexler points to a gleaming blue tower as he drives. ''A Chicago bank took it over six months ago. Sold at a 40 percent discount.''
''And over there'' -- he juts his chin at a boarded-up hotel topped by a Chick-fil-A fast-food restaurant crown. ''That was going to be a condo. They just shut it down and walked away.''
Mr. Wexler, a wiry and peripatetic real estate data analyst, describes it all on a drive down Peachtree Road, Atlanta's posh commercial spine.
He starts in the Buckhead neighborhood, which has more than two million square feet of vacant commercial space. A billboard outside one discounted condo tower promises ''New Pricing from the $290s!'' There are towers half-empty and towers in receivership. Office buildings that once sold for $85 million now retail for $35 million.
Approaching downtown, Mr. Wexler hits the brakes and points to an older, white marble building. ''See that one? It's the Fed Reserve. That's where they sit, look, sweat and wonder: How did we get into this mess?''
That's a question much on the minds and lips of residents.
The commercial vacancy rate in Buckhead is near 20 percent, and the Atlanta region has added jobs only at the low end.
Mike Alexander, research division chief for the Atlanta Regional Commission, posed the question: ''When do we start to add premium jobs again?''
Lawrence L. Gellerstedt III, chief executive of Cousins Properties, sits in an office high atop an elegant Philip Johnson tower, with a grand view of the Atlanta commercial corridor running north. He does not see improvement on the horizon.
''We're all wondering what gets the economy producing jobs and growth again,'' he says. ''Atlanta always was the fair-haired child of real estate growth and now, it's 'O.K., poster boy, you're getting yours.' ''
Small banks are a particular disaster, 43 having gone under in Georgia since 2008. (Federal regulators closed 129 nationally this year, up from 25 last year.) Real estate was the beginning, the middle and the end of the troubles. In one deal, dozens of Atlanta banks invested in Merrill Ranch, a 4,508-acre tract of desert south of Phoenix.
The deal imploded and took a lot of banks with it.
''No one was demanding documents or reading the fine print, and mortgage banks were fat and happy,'' recalls John Little, a developer. ''Well, that train couldn't keep running.''
He has a ringside seat on this debacle, as he sits in the office of a handsome condo complex he built in west Atlanta. He faced price discounts so deep that he decided to rent it instead.
Nationwide banks have no interest in lending to local developers, and the regional banks are desperate for cash and calling in their loans.
Mr. Little got lucky; he bought out his loan and kept his property. ''Most of my generation of builders has gone under,'' he said. ''It's still spiraling out of control.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THE RECESSION'S PAIN: Clockwise from top left: The Wheaton family has been hurting since Todd Wheaton's hours were cut. A retail and office condo in Atlanta has been vacant for two years. Demand has tripled at Tom Hunt's food pantry in Coolidge, Ariz. The Furrow family in Cherry Hill, N.J., wants to sell its house. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
TAMI CHAPPELL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 JESSICA KOURKOUNIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A18) CHART: A Long Road Ahead in Regaining Lost Jobs. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics (projections calculated by the New York Times based on B.L.S. figures)) (CHART BY SETH W. FEASTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RECESSION (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (89%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); LAYOFFS (75%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (75%); ELECTIONS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); JOB CREATION (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); FAMILY (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); INFLATION (74%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (74%); MORTGAGE BANKING (73%); OFFICE PROPERTY (72%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (71%); GREAT DEPRESSION (68%); CONSULTING SERVICES (61%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHERRY HILL, NJ, USA (90%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (77%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (51%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); ARIZONA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2010



342 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 835 words

HEADLINE: Europe Considers a Curb on Deepwater Drilling

BYLINE: By JAMES KANTER

 BODY:
LONDON -- As the United States lifted its moratorium on deepwater oil drilling Tuesday, the European Commission was on the verge of proposing a curb on drilling in extreme conditions until an inquiry into the causes of the fatal explosion at a BP rig in the Gulf of Mexico was completed.
President Barack Obama imposed the moratorium after the blowout of a BP well on April 20 led to the largest offshore oil spill in American history. He lifted the ban after imposing new rules intended to prevent another such disaster. 
Gunther Oettinger, the European Union energy commissioner, was expected to say on Wednesday that rules on oil and gas exploration in the union were too fragmented at a time when companies are going into deeper and rougher waters to seek new sources of fossil fuels.
In an appearance in London, the chief executive of Royal Dutch Shell, Peter Voser, on Tuesday strongly defended deepwater oil and gas drilling even as he acknowledged that the industry had failed to prepare adequately for the accident in the Gulf of Mexico and its aftermath.
Speaking at Oil and Money, a conference convened by The International Herald Tribune, Mr. Voser suggested that the explosion in the Gulf of Mexico had been, at least in part, a result of shortcomings by BP and the other companies involved.
Shell ''clearly would have drilled this well in a different way and would have had more options'' to prevent the accident and limit its impact.
Even so, Mr. Voser said the oil and gas industry ''learns, and learns fast,'' when it comes to developing safer designs for wells and better ways of counteracting and containing spills.
The industry was making every effort to ensure that ''all the learning is taken into account and deepwater drilling can continue,'' Mr. Voser said.
In Brussels, the European Commission was expected to propose that countries in the European Union adopt a voluntary moratorium on drilling in very deep waters, and in environmentally sensitive areas like the Arctic, until the results of a United States government inquiry into the causes of the Deepwater Horizon accident is completed. The results of that inquiry are expected in January.
Mr. Oettinger's proposal would be voluntary for governments but would seek to give them the means, under E.U. law, to impose a ban if they choose.
Mr. Oettinger also was expected to propose that the E.U. agree on new laws that would require governments that license offshore drilling sites to check whether companies had the ability to pay to clean up a spill and to repair any damage to the natural environment. A formal proposal for legislation on liability could follow early next year.
Nobuo Tanaka, the head of the International Energy Agency, was among other senior figures at the Oil & Money conference on Tuesday who underlined the importance of pushing forward with deepwater drilling.
''If there is a delay globally, the impact could be huge,'' said Mr. Tanaka, the executive director of the Paris-based agency, referring to how delays to new offshore deepwater oil and gas drilling could affect the oil market.
Mr. Tanaka added that about one-third of oil production globally comes from offshore projects. He said the level was expected to rise to about one-half by 2015.
Ivan Sandrea, a vice president at Statoil, a Norwegian oil company, said deepwater wells had accounted for 40 percent to 60 percent of new oil discoveries in recent decades. Deepwater sources were ''a big thing for all of us,'' he said.
The accident in the Gulf of Mexico meant there would be a ''higher cost environment'' in the future because of new regulations, inspections and other factors, he said. There also would be a ''reduced interest for the most environmentally sensitive areas,'' he added.
The American moratorium had idled 33 deepwater rigs in the Gulf of Mexico, affecting many jobs and triggering anger in the region. Though it was lifted, officials have said that it could be weeks or even months before drilling operations can resume because new permits must now be granted.
Drilling also has been a sensitive matter for European governments, which want to be seen to be defending the environment against damage from the fossil fuel industry but are reluctant to cede sovereignty on matters concerning their energy sector.
Britain was particularly wary of mandatory E.U. intervention on the grounds that it already has a robust safety regime in place. British officials also contend that natural gas, which is responsible for less environmental damage than alternatives like coal, is critical to its transition to a low-carbon economy.
Even if E.U. member governments choose to act, there is a limited amount they can do to stop some of the most potentially sensitive projects.
One of the most important deepwater projects in the region is in waters outside European jurisdiction. By the end of the year, BP plans to begin drilling below the Mediterranean Sea off the coast of Libya a few hundred kilometers from E.U. member states like Malta, Italy and Greece.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL EXTRACTION (92%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL SPILLS (89%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); LEGISLATION (84%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); OIL EXPLORATION (78%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (77%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (66%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (61%); HISTORY (56%)

COMPANY: BP PLC (92%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (85%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%)

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (92%); BP (LSE) (92%); RDSA (LSE) (85%); RDSA (AMS) (85%); RDS.B (NYSE) (85%); RDS.A (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (92%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (92%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (92%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (85%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (93%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (58%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (94%); GULF OF MEXICO (94%); BADEN-WURTTEMBERG, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); BELGIUM (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2010



343 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 413 words

HEADLINE: OPEC Revises Higher Its Forecast for This Year and Next

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
CAIRO (AP) -- The oil cartel OPEC revised its forecast for growth in oil demand slightly higher for this year and next, noting Tuesday that China's ''overheated'' economy remained a crucial driver for energy use in a world still struggling to emerge from its worst recession in decades. 
The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries , which supplies about 35 percent of the world's oil, said the world economy continued to expand at below-average levels. It said a depletion of recession-busting government stimulus and sovereign debt worries in Europe still stoked uncertainty about oil demand and the pace of the global economic recovery.
''Despite some turbulence and setbacks, the global economic recovery continues to provide support for oil consumption,'' OPEC said in its October oil market report. But it stressed that oil demand growth next year would be ''highly sensitive to China's energy policies,'' even as American demand remained the ''wild card.''
''Should China emphasize its energy consumption policy,'' the report said, ''then this move will negatively affect world energy usage.''
OPEC projected oil demand would hit 85.59 million barrels in 2010 and 86.64 million barrels a day in 2011. In both years, those figures represented an 80,000-barrel-a-day upward revision in demand.
The increase for this year was built on stronger-than-expected stimulus-led growth in the first half of 2010, OPEC said. Weighing on demand next year would be lower growth figures in some countries, improved energy efficiency and an expected increase in the use of alternative fuels.
The inching up of demand amid lingering uncertainty about the global recovery will probably factor prominently in the 12-nation producer bloc's meeting this week in Vienna. Several oil ministers have indicated that they are comfortable with crude's current price level, and it appeared unlikely that the group would change its output quotas. OPEC has left its production quotas unchanged since December 2008, afraid of jarring prices and derailing the recovery.
OPEC also said that non-OPEC supply was projected to rise this year by 1.01 million barrels a day, its highest growth level since 2002. It revised up its non-OPEC supply by 170,000 barrels a day compared to its September forecast, with the uptick based on revisions in supply in the United States and elsewhere.
For 2011, non-OPEC supply was projected to reach 52.59 million barrels a day, an upward revision of 170,000 barrels a day.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CARTELS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CONSUMPTION (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (77%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (73%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (71%); EXPORT TRADE (71%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (78%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); AUSTRIA (78%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2010



344 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; ON SOCCER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 985 words

HEADLINE: Planners of New Stadiums Keep Soccer in Mind

BYLINE: By ROB HUGHES

 BODY:
London
The new Olympic Stadium rising in East London is the object of desire for two soccer clubs that want to uproot and move in when the 2012 Games are over.
Developers proposing a new N.F.L. stadium in Los Angeles are suggesting that their design could be made to accommodate anything FIFA might require and that their building could be a fulcrum to the United States' bid for the 2022 World Cup.
Historically, sports stadiums mean different things on either side of the Atlantic. An Englishman's home is his castle, and he prefers his club rooted to the same spot for life. American fans will move where the entertainment is. 
But modern times bring us closer together. Everyone can see, from Montreal to Athens to Beijing, the ghastly mistake of erecting stadiums for single events and watching them decay into ghostly white elephants.
London was granted the Olympics on condition that track and field, the cornerstone of the Games, would have a permanent legacy in the English capital. Keeping that promise will probably still determine which soccer team wins the contest to play in the Olympic stadium.
Two clubs in the East End of London are putting in applications. West Ham United would honor the pledge and keep the running track around its soccer field. Tottenham Hotspur, in conjunction with the American company AEG, wants the stadium but not the track.
There is good reason for both arguments.
The English especially like to feel close to the action. Their soccer tradition works best when the fans are almost within touching distance of the players. It brings out a sense of togetherness, a bonding even in these times, when two-thirds of the star players in the English Premier League are foreigners. The atmosphere generates an urgency that makes the game in England the fastest, most physically demanding on earth.
Neither the Hammers nor the Spurs would have to move far from their roots to take up residence in the Olympic stadium. West Ham's current stadium, the Boleyn Ground in Upton Park, is two miles away.
Two miles, but a world of difference. The old ground holds memories of Bobby Moore and Geoff Hurst and Martin Peters, heroes of the only time England won the World Cup, in 1966. You cannot run a club on memories alone, but the tradition is passed down from fathers to sons and daughters. The original Hammers were workers at the Thames Ironworks 115 years ago, and even though the shipbuilding company is long gone, the club, bolted onto its Upton Park site, has remained synonymous with the East Enders.
Though many have moved out, and immigrants have moved in, the regular league games played there represent a homecoming for the fans.
But their club almost fell into the recession trap two years ago when its Icelandic owners went bankrupt. The new owners, East Enders returning for soccer and for business, eyed the move to the Olympic stadium.
It would cost them maybe $160 million to convert an Olympic arena into a multipurpose stadium that would primarily be used for soccer. But it would almost double the spectator capacity, would come with ready-made transportation hubs and would integrate the soccer club with local centers of sports and education. The old stadium would be sold off to developers.
The sentimental attachment that whole families hold for Upton Park would be broken. But the same thing happened in Manchester, where the 2002 Commonwealth Games stadium became the new home for Manchester City supporters and their beloved Maine Road stadium was sold and developed for housing.
Tottenham will also have to move someday if its newfound status in the European Champions League is to be sustained. Its present stadium, White Hart Lane, is cramped by residential properties, and its approaches are congested by antiquated transportation links.
But Spurs' partner in seeking the Olympic option, AEG, will not make the pledge to maintain the running track.
''I think it is a crime if you sacrifice having a perfect football stadium for convincing yourself you are going to do a track and field event every 10 years,'' Timothy Leiweke, the president of AEG, said last week.
His company owns the Los Angeles Galaxy of Major League Soccer and manages the 02 Arena in East London.
AEG is also considering whether to build a Los Angeles stadium fit for a new or relocated N.F.L. franchise. AEG's business plan would lay down the new stadium in central Los Angeles.
A rival developer, Majestic Reality, is drawing up a design for an N.F.L. stadium in the hills east of Los Angeles. This week, Dan Meis, the principal stadium architect for Majestic, said he was working on a plan that would enable the design to be adapted for use as a World Cup soccer venue.
''Because we're building a new stadium,'' Meis told The Associated Press, ''we could incorporate anything FIFA could want.''
FIFA, the world soccer federation, has plenty of options, in both the East and the West. Its 2018 event is expected to go to Europe, with England and Russia the leading contenders. Its 2022 World Cup, which will be decided on the same day this year, Dec. 2, will go to Asia or the United States.
So, far from single-purpose arenas, the London Olympic stadium and a new California stadium could very well be filled for the two most expensive, and expansive, global sporting events on the horizon.
West Ham's proposal, already backed by the regional political authority, received formal backing Monday from another major stakeholder, U.K. Athletics.
In today's world, it is not inconceivable that the redesign after the 2012 Games could allow for retractable seating. This could bring spectators closer to the soccer field for every home game the Hammers play and slide back once major track events are held.
The stadiums are inanimate real estate. But it seems that in many sports these days, anyone without a 60,000-seat modern facility is not competitive on the bigger stages -- of Europe or the United States.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (94%); SOCCER (94%); OLYMPICS (90%); SPORTS (90%); 2012 LONDON SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SPORTS AWARDS (89%); RUNNING (89%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); TRACK & FIELD (76%); IMMIGRATION (63%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERATION INTERNATIONALE DE FOOTBALL ASSOCIATION (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); QUEBEC, CANADA (73%) UNITED STATES (94%); ENGLAND (92%); CANADA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2010



345 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Cars; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 835 words

HEADLINE: Luxury Sector Is Buoyed by Sedate Models

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE ULRICH

 BODY:
THE idea that luxury car sales are outpacing the industry at large may spark a knee-jerk reaction: The rich seem to be sailing right along in a bumpy economy.
But over all, the picture is more nuanced. Even people who can afford whatever they want seem allergic to anything that smacks of fun and frolic. Sports cars, luxury coupes and convertibles are gathering cobwebs. Sales of the Corvette, often America's most popular sports car, were fewer in 2009 than in any year since 1961.
As a class, luxury-car sales are up 14.8 percent this year, according to WardsAuto.com, almost double the gains for mainstream models, helped along by low interest rates that have brought on a leasing comeback. 
But even with that increase, sales are off 30 percent from 2007, the year before the recession choked the market.
Analysts say it's not surprising that bold statements are out of fashion.
''When everyone is suffering, it doesn't feel right to buy a flashy $80,000 car,'' said Jesse Toprak, vice president for industry trends for TrueCar.com, a site that offers to help consumers find the best deals in their area.
Some big, fashionable S.U.V.'s, including the Range Rover, Land Rover LR4, Lexus GX 470 and Mercedes GL-Class, have staged comebacks as well. Yet the smaller luxury crossovers -- including the Audi Q5, Cadillac SRX and Volvo XC60 -- are the industry's fastest-growing segment. Starting around $35,000, these models offer an S.U.V. in a more modest, fuel-efficient package.
Sensible sedans are also doing well. Among Mercedes-Benz's eight-car lineup (not counting its crossovers and S.U.V.s), its two most affordable, conservative sedans are responsible for more than 80,000 of the brand's 94,000 car sales through August: the entry-level C-Class, Mercedes' lowest-priced model at less than $35,000, and its E-Class, whose redesign has sparked a 70 percent sales jump in 2010. Yet Mercedes' more decadent models are largely in the tank: Only 5,000 buyers combined for the SLK and SL convertibles, the rich CL-Class coupe and fashionable CLS-Class.
Perhaps no car illustrates the current dynamic better than Porsche's new Panamera, its first-ever sedan. As with its Cayenne S.U.V. in 2001, Porsche drew howls from sports car purists. But despite criticism of the Panamera's bulbous styling, the car's spacious back seat and otherworldly performance have impressed buyers, even with prices starting at $75,000 and ranging up to $150,000 for the 500-horsepower Turbo edition.
Porsche executives frankly call the Panamera an easier sell for today's families than an indulgent toy, like its classic 911. The Panamera's motto may well be: ''See, honey? There is room for the kids.''
''No one really 'needs' a 911,'' said Tony Fouladpour, a Porsche spokesman. ''That's a purely discretionary purchase.''
The Panamera has quickly outsold all Porsche sports cars, with nearly 5,000 buyers through August, compared with fewer than 4,000 for the 911. Together, the practical Panamera and redesigned Cayenne have grabbed nearly 60 percent of all Porsche sales.
A Cayenne Hybrid, on sale early next year, is among a group of electric-assisted luxury cars designed to meet the coming regulatory standards and snare the green-minded. Nearly every top-shelf brand, including Ferrari, Mercedes, Audi, Porsche, BMW and Lotus, has electric or plug-in hybrid models in the works.
Of course, even in flush times, relatively few people are willing or able to spend six figures on a car. Before the financial crisis, Bentley rode hits like the $170,000 Continental GT to tenfold sales gains in the United States -- but that still amounted to under 4,000 cars sold in 2007.
In this ultra-luxury segment, which includes Bentley, Rolls-Royce, Ferrari, Lamborghini and Aston Martin, sales nearly halved to 6,151 last year from almost 12,000 in 2007. Even in 2010, with the segment revived by 15 percent, only about 2,000 Americans will feel ready to splurge on a Bentley.
Yet ''even in a bad economy, people don't give up their dream,'' Christophe Georges, president and chief operating officer of Bentley Motors, said hopefully as he discussed Bentley's Mulsanne, a striking $285,000 flagship sedan.
Robert Herjavec would agree. The Toronto-based car enthusiast and technology entrepreneur has a new $200,000 Mercedes SLS AMG gullwing, a $420,000 Rolls-Royce Phantom Drophead Coupe -- and for everyday driving, a $90,000 BMW 750Li.
Yet in early 2009, Mr. Herjavec held off on new vehicles.
''The pervasive attitude was, what's the point of all this cool, fun stuff if the world's coming to an end?'' said Mr. Herjavec, a cast member on the ABC reality show ''Shark Tank.'' ''But now there are some fantastic new cars, and the people who love them are coming back.''
Correction: October 19, 2010, Tuesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Thursday about sales of luxury cars misstated the last year in which sales of the Corvette were as low as they were in 2009. It was 1961, not 1960.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CALL THEM SENSIBLE: The less glamorous, more family-oriented models in the luxury car sector have been the star sellers of the past year. Clockwise from top left are the Land Rover LR4
the Lexus GX 470
the Mercedes-Benz GL-Class
 and the Porsche Cayenne. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (94%); LUXURY GOODS (91%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); SPORTS CARS (89%); SEDANS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); RECESSION (77%); TRENDS (75%); INTEREST RATES (54%)

COMPANY: TRUECAR INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519190 ALL OTHER INFORMATION SERVICES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2011



346 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 876 words

HEADLINE: JetBlue Pokes Fun at the Competition

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
AMONG the signs that marketers are feeling somewhat better about the economy is an increase in advertising by airlines, an industry that is particularly vulnerable to the ebbs and flows of consumer spending.
For instance, Continental Airlines and United Airlines are running ads to announce their recent merger along with ads that promote each carrier. American Airlines is peddling flights in television commercials and on billboards. And Delta Air Lines just introduced a campaign -- the first work from its new creative agency, the New York office of Wieden & Kennedy -- that carries the upbeat theme ''Keep climbing.''
JetBlue Airways has a new agency, too, having decided in May to replace JWT in New York, the WPP unit that had created ads for JetBlue since late 2005, with Mullen in Boston, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies. Like the Delta campaign, the new JetBlue campaign, which is to get under way on Friday, includes a word in the theme that evokes being aloft. 
''You above all,'' JetBlue promises in its ads, which will appear in print, online and in mobile, outdoor and social media. Instead of television commercials, there will be offbeat video clips, to run on Hulu, Vevo and YouTube and Web sites that are part of the BBE Network.
The videos will take sharp pokes at how other airlines treat their customers. In some, actors playing taxi cab drivers try to charge passengers $25 for each bag placed in their trunks, in a reminder that the first checked bag on JetBlue is still free.
In another video, an actor playing a pushcart vendor gives customers only half a can of soda, in a reminder that JetBlue offers passengers full cans, and other snacks, free. And in another video, an actor playing an elevator operator presses all the buttons in the car so it stops at every floor, in a reminder that JetBlue flights are nonstop.
To underline the message, visitors to the YouTube.com home page on Friday will see these words interrupting a clip onscreen: ''Please pay $5 to continue watching all video content. $5, one-day pass.''
Five dollars? Isn't YouTube free? These words will then appear onscreen: ''You expect free entertainment here. Why not in the air?'' JetBlue, the ad continues, gives fliers ''your choice of 46 free DirecTV channels in every seat.'' The visitors are then invited to watch the JetBlue clips to ''see what happens when the ground rules change.''
The videos all end with this assertive slogan: ''If you wouldn't take it on the ground, don't take it in the air.''
The goal is for the campaign to set up JetBlue, which is marking its 10th anniversary, ''for the next 10 years,'' said Martin St. George, senior vice president for marketing and commercial strategy at JetBlue in Forest Hills, Queens.
'' 'You above all' gets us back to our DNA, our original mission, bringing humanity back to air travel,'' Mr. St. George said, whereas recent campaigns, which carried themes like ''More'' and ''Happy jetting,'' ''didn't quite have a human side.''
''We're not afraid to call it out where the JetBlue experience is better than the experience at our competitors,'' he added.
''We have customers who fly us for leisure travel all the time,'' Mr. St. George said, but for their four to 10 business trips a year they fly the older, so-called legacy airlines because they believe ''they have a chance for an upgrade -- but they never get it.''
''We want to remind them they have a great option under their noses,'' he added. ''We're not trying to become an airline with a first-class cabin and look like Singapore or British Airways, but the idea is that if you never pull your credit card out on JetBlue you can still have a great experience.''
JetBlue will spend an estimated $3 million on the campaign through the end of the year, then evaluate its performance. The airline spent $4.6 million to advertise in major media in the first half of 2010, according to the Kantar Media unit of WPP, compared with $11.8 million in the period a year ago.
The campaign is intended to provide ''emotional differentiation'' for JetBlue, said Alex Leikikh, managing partner and director for account service at Mullen, which was also awarded the media part of the JetBlue account, previously handled by the MediaCom unit of WPP.
''Airline advertising today is chock full of smiley, happy business people,'' Mr. Leikikh said. ''We wanted to do something different.''
That extends to the graphic design of many of the ads, which use colorful figures that resemble the letter ''i'' to represent passengers.
Inside the agency, ''we call them i-people,'' said Mark Wenneker, managing partner and executive creative director at Mullen, and they are transparent to symbolize how JetBlue is ''a transparent and human brand.''
The ''Happy jetting'' campaign was known for playfully winking at the conventions of airline advertising. Although the new campaign is more straightforward, there is one ad with a postmodern approach; it describes ''You above all'' this way: ''Not a tag line. A promise.''
There have been many airline campaigns that use words like ''above'' and ''climbing'' to suggest the experience of flight, Others include ''Up, up and away'' for Trans World Airlines, ''Rising'' for United and ''Up'' for the Oneworld alliance of carriers.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: JetBlue's ads will start Friday in print, online and in mobile, outdoor and social media
 the videos include the slogan above. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); FILM (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (78%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (78%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (78%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (76%); SOCIAL MEDIA (71%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (71%); MOBILE MEDIA (71%); MOBILE FOOD SERVICES (71%); ANNIVERSARIES (60%)

COMPANY: JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (94%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (84%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (74%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (58%); JWT (56%)

TICKER: JBLU (NASDAQ) (94%); IPG (NYSE) (84%); DAL (NYSE) (74%); UAL (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (94%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (94%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2010



347 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Cars; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: The Little Cars That Moved Europe

BYLINE: By JOHN HANC

 BODY:
THIS little car has come a long way.
Restored and repainted, it sits in a climate controlled, 25,000-square-foot museum, 50 miles outside of Atlanta, far from its origins on the ruined, rubble-strewn roads of postwar Germany.
The Messerschmitt KR-175 was originally built for a far-away era, when a population in dire need of transportation turned to engineering solutions to solve their problems -- whether it was transporting amputees who had been wounded in the war, getting to market or taking the family on a picnic. 
The KR-175 was one of the first of a class of vehicles that would become known as microcars, defined as cars with engines smaller than 750 cubic centimeters. The KR-175 was less than 10 feet long and weighed 396 pounds. Befitting a vehicle bearing the nameplate of a company known for its fighter planes for the Luftwaffe, the 1-cylinder, 9-horsepower Messerschmitt also featured a plexiglass passenger compartment dome that resembled an airplane cockpit.
It's tiny, it's fascinating, it's still futuristic looking -- and it's here with about 300 of its fellow minivehicles at the Bruce Weiner Microcar Museum in Madison, Ga. The museum celebrates a little-known but intriguing chapter in automotive history that did not originate in the United States. Because while Americans were buying bigger and bigger cars in the late 1940s and 1950s, Europeans were thinking small.
They had little choice.
''These cars were a response to desperate conditions,'' said Peter Svilans, a microcar restorer and historian in Toronto. ''But today they should be appreciated as a wonderful merging of technology and art.''
Indeed, the flair of their designers is evident in startling features like the three wheels of the KR-175 (Messerschmitt later added a fourth), or the Italian-designed Isetta, in which the door is the entire front of the car (it opens out, steering wheel and all, and the driver climbs in).
It was also the Isetta's egglike shape that inspired the phrase by which the micros are known in some circles: bubble cars.
The flair of these vehicles is matched by Bruce Weiner, who found and brought them to the United States. Mr. Weiner, 51, a wealthy entrepreneur with a passion for collecting little cars and other unusual things, says he has been interested in cars since he was a teenager in Florida. He said he saw a picture of a Messerschmitt in an automotive trade magazine about 20 years ago and ''was fascinated. It was just so cool, so different than any other car I'd ever seen.''
Mr. Weiner had parlayed an interest in, of all things, bubblegum, which he collected, into ownership of Dubble Bubble, the bubblegum company (he sold it in 2004).
With a similar zeal, he started collecting microcars in 1991 and has found them in barns, garages or even in pieces and stored in boxes all over Europe. ''With microcars, you don't just show up with a wad of cash and say sell it to me,'' he said. ''At least not in Europe, which is where 90 percent of these cars were. There, they mean something more. It's like you showing up and asking me to sell my dad's watch.''
Mr. Weiner, a divorced father of two, opened the museum on 72 acres he owned in Madison in 1997. Many American visitors who follow the signs off of Highway 441 aren't quite sure what a microcar is.
''I think a lot of people come in here expecting to see Hot Wheels, the little toys,'' said Mark Hagler, laughing, the general manager of the museum and the adjacent restoration shop in which the cars are maintained.
Indeed, climbing into a French-made 1957 Rovin Z-4 for a test ride with Mr. Hagler, one has the feel of stepping down into a kiddie ride. But as he brings the car up to 40 miles per hour, it's evident that these are not toys.
What doomed them, however, was economic prosperity. By the early 1960s, larger (at least by European standards) automobiles, mass produced by today's familiar names like Volkswagen, Renault and Fiat, began to dominate the roads. ''The mini completely demolished the micro,'' said Mr. Svilans.
This consigned the bubble cars to museums, and in the case of the Messerschmitt KR-175, rare ones at that. Fifteen thousand of them were manufactured from 1953-55. Only 50 are known to still exist. It's likely few have traveled farther from the factory in Regensburg where they were built than the one that sits in the Microcar Museum, a prime example of what the museum's brochure hails as the ''small wonders'' of automotive history.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: TINY GUYS: A 1964 Peel P50 at the Bruce Weiner Microcar Museum. The car, which has no reverse gear, has a handle in the rear so the car can be lifted and turned around.
OUTSIDE AND IN: From far left, a Heinkel steering wheel and instrument cluster, a 1953 Fuldamobil N-2 and a 1957 Voisin Biscooter, which featured wicker seats.
 POSTWAR: A museum display of the Messerschmitt KR-201, one of the first microcars produced after World War II. Far right, Bruce Weiner, who founded the museum, driving a 1956 Rovin D4. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIK S. LESSER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); HISTORY (78%); ENGINEERING (77%); WORLD WAR II (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%) GEORGIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (53%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (73%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (54%); CANADA (53%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2011



348 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1103 words

HEADLINE: Trade Officials Ponder How to Respond to China's Rare Earth Stance

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER; Hiroko Tabuchi contributed reporting from Tokyo.

 BODY:
BEIJING -- As a three-week-long Chinese suspension in exports of crucial minerals to Japan continues, American and Japanese trade officials have been considering whether to file cases against China at the World Trade Organization.
Trade lawyers say an embargo case could be brought to the W.T.O., although they said it might be a hard case to win because China has not acknowledged the halt in exports through any documents or public statements.
Coincidentally, Obama administration trade officials had been quietly meeting for months with executives and lawyers from a range of American industries that use rare earth elements, long before China halted shipments to Japan on Sept. 21, according to trade lawyers and Congressional and industry officials. 
Many of those American industries are unhappy that China has been reducing its rare earth export quotas since 2006 and has imposed steep taxes on the exports, said Jeff Green, a Washington lobbyist for rare earth users. The export restrictions have given a competitive advantage to manufacturers in China that use rare earths to make their products, while putting foreign rivals at a disadvantage, according to a little-noticed W.T.O. study last June.
Spokeswomen at the Office of the United States Trade Representative declined repeated requests for comment on rare earths.
There are 17 rare earth elements, and they are used to make things like hybrid cars, mobile phones and the special television screens recently unveiled by Japanese companies that provide a 3-D appearance without the need for special glasses. China mines 95 percent of the world's supply of rare earths.
Chen Deming, the commerce minister of China, said in a television interview on Sept. 26 that his country fully complied with W.T.O. rules.
Mr. Chen also denied then that his country had imposed an embargo on rare earth exports, suggesting that entrepreneurs in the industry had decided on their own to stop sending shipments to Japan because of their personal feelings toward Japan. He did not explain, though, why all 32 foreign-owned and domestic rare earth exporters in China stopped shipments to Japan on the same day.
Shortages could start to appear at some Japanese manufacturers at the end of this week, rare earth industry officials said.
Japanese officials have hinted that they might pursue their own W.T.O. case against China if shipments do not resume soon. But the way China has gone about the unannounced halt in exports -- with Chinese customs officials blocking all shipments at ports but with no actual issuance of new regulations -- makes the suspension hard to challenge at a W.T.O. dispute resolution panel in Geneva, trade lawyers said.
W.T.O. cases usually involve a country's sending the text of another country's offending regulation to Geneva for jurists to compare with W.T.O. rules for compliance.
''Dispute settlement panels do not lightly assume the existence of unwritten measures,'' said Carolyn Gleason, a partner at the McDermott Will & Emery law firm in Washington who has specialized in W.T.O. cases for nearly 30 years. ''They will hold complaining countries to a high evidentiary threshold before accepting that a measure exists.''
Akihiro Ohata, the Japanese minister for trade and industry, told reporters on Tuesday that if normal shipments did not resume by the end of the week he would consider dispatching his deputy to Beijing. ''We will certainly take steps to address the situation, including possible direct negotiations with the Chinese,'' he said. He did not refer to any steps to involve the W.T.O.
Despite their name, most rare earths are not particularly rare. But so far most of the rest of the world has left it to China to do the dirty work of mining them. New mines elsewhere are likely to take three to five years to reach full production, according to industry executives.
And despite their growing importance to technology manufacturers, rare earths have not been a particularly lucrative commodity. The world market for rare earths was only worth $1.5 billion last year, before the recent halt in Chinese shipments sent prices soaring. Only a fraction of an ounce of rare earths is needed for some applications, like the power steering motors in cars.
China's longer-term restrictions on rare earth exports, involving quotas and taxes, came under criticism after the W.T.O. secretariat in Geneva issued its review of China's trade policies in June. The W.T.O. reviews each member country's policies once every two years.
''Whether intended or not, export restraints for whatever reason tend to reduce export volumes of the targeted products and divert supplies to the domestic market,'' the report said.
The timing of any W.T.O. effort by the Obama administration could be driven by a statutory requirement to respond by Oct. 24 to a petition by the United Steelworkersunion asking that the White House challenge China's clean energy policies at the W.T.O.
The lead exhibits in the steelworkers' petition criticize the rare earth export quotas as well as export taxes on rare earths for supposedly forcing manufacturers to move the production of clean energy technologies like wind turbine manufacturing to China.
W.T.O. rules bar export quotas and export taxes in most cases, and particularly prohibit the use of export restrictions to force other countries to buy more value-added products. But the rules have an exception for the conservation of scarce natural resources, and Premier Wen Jiabao suggested in Europe last week that this was China's goal in restricting rare earth exports.
One complexity is that the United States, European Union and Mexico filed three similar W.T.O. cases against China nearly a year ago, accusing it of unfairly imposing export quotas and taxes on a half-dozen industrial minerals used in the aluminum, chemical and steel industries. Those cases do not cover rare earths but raise some of the same legal issues.
The Obama administration may wait for the initial W.T.O. panel decision on those cases, due in mid-February, so as to write a more persuasive legal case on rare earths, industry and Congressional officials said. The law under which the United Steelworkers filed their petition allows the White House to conduct an investigation for up to 90 days after the Oct. 24 deadline before contacting the Chinese government, and it can then ask for consultations with China under the W.T.O.'s auspices.
Only if those consultations are fruitless would the administration need to file a legal case on rare earths, which would be well after the initial decision on the other industrial materials in mid-February.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Neodymium and several other rare earth minerals are mined in China, which is no longer sending them to Japan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NELSON CHING/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); EXPORT CONTROLS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (78%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (78%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); LOBBYING (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); INTERVIEWS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (67%); TEXT MESSAGING (65%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (64%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (58%); OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES TRADE REPRESENTATIVE (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (74%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%) CHINA (99%); JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); SWITZERLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2010



349 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; CURRENTS Q&A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: After the Fall: Piecing Politicians Back Together

BYLINE: By PENELOPE GREEN

 BODY:
Sybil Sage, a veteran television comedy writer (for ''The Mary Tyler Moore Show,'' ''Maude,'' ''Alice'' and other gems from the written age), had been making objects with pique assiette -- a French mosaic technique using broken plates -- for years as a hobby, whacking china into shards to put on frames, vases and furniture for friends like Gene Wilder, Teri Garr, Lily Tomlin and Larry Merchant. She and her husband, Martin, who is also a comedy writer, had retired from television some years ago, and Ms. Sage said life was chugging along happily until 2008, when their savings were wiped out.
Then Ms. Sage turned the mosaics into a business. Her work has gained a particular refinement recently, as she has been moved to make a line of funeral urns called ''American Beauties,'' covered with the faces of politicians who have strayed from their marriages. 
Sorry, this is off-topic, but did your parents really name you Sybil Sage?
No, I married Sage, which was originally Shochetman. I could easily have been Sybil Adelman Shochetman -- well, not that easily, as I had to threaten my husband to get him to marry me.
How did a retired television writer find herself making cremation urns tiled with the faces of political figures like John Edwards, Mark Sanford, John Ensign and others?
I'd been a script writer, doing mostly TV; was one of the first women to write comedy; then partnered with my husband and continued to write, the last show being ''Northern Exposure,'' after which we were considered too old to write for TV. I find that baffling, since people much older than we are get to make life and death decisions on the Supreme Court. This fact made being wiped out most inconvenient. I applied to every job on Craigslist that didn't ask for bra size or Social Security number and got only two interviews: one for a guy selling Obama condoms (and he had me sign a confidentiality agreement), the other an interview with Dick Cavett, who was looking for an assistant. Though I made it to the final cut (out of over 3,600 applicants), I was told, ''We're not hiring you, but we'd like to have dinner with you.''
So, I did a book proposal (''Breaking News: You're Broke''), and that was turned down by everyone, leaving me no other option but to turn what had been a hobby into a business.
O.K., but ... funeral urns?
I just thought it was fitting. The system was broken and it seemed right to use broken plates. A funeral, well, it seemed like we deserved one. Also, as a comedy writer, it just made me laugh. It's not that cheating is limited to politicians, but that's just what I was seeing. I watch cable television when I'm working, and I felt like I was in their stories, that I knew more about their marriages than I did my own.
And they don't do it any more competently than they do health care reform. The cheating, I mean. It hadn't occurred to me to do mosaic political satire until I was at ''American Idiot,'' the political rock musical, when I began thinking about what I could do to make a statement. My first thought, because I'm such a fan, was to do a Colbert vase. That done, I moved onto edgier things. The cheating urn is a surprising (and I like surprising) mix of pretty plates nipped from American flag plates (a fun part of the process is discovering plates), shiny gems, tiles and mirrors -- as incongruous a setting as I imagine Rielle Hunter's house may have been for John Edwards.
This proved to be a satisfying outlet for my frustrations at the many distressing things currently going on in America -- the hikes up the Appalachian Trail and everywhere else these guys don't belong. There's something empowering about being the one to judge who deserves to be on one of my urns, and I have a feeling some of the wives would enjoy joining me in smashing some plates.
The people I get supplies from on eBay have been beyond adorable. The cremation urn lady, after learning what I would be doing with them, threw in an extra. When I contacted her to ask if she'd made a mistake, she said, ''I want you to do one on job losses.'' Yesterday, the glass-gem vendor (under which go the offensive photos) refused to take my money after hearing this is a new business, and insisted on sending more gratis. My plate ladies often ask to see photos of the finished products. I'm having warm relationships with strangers, which, as it turns out, is a better way to go than sex with strangers.
Have you seen Eliot Spitzer's new talk show?
I have seen Eliot's talk show and was amazed at how unscathed he seems to be, which disproves my mother's adage, ''Cheaters never prosper.'' Am I the only one who holds a grudge? And an urn?
American Beauties urns are about $1,350; information: sybilsage.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: COMMENTARY: Sybil Sage, a comedy writer and mosaic maker, with two of her ''Breaking News Series,'' current political, economic and environmental issues depicted on vases and cremation urns with photos and plate shards. Top, ''On the Right: Politicians and Pundits'' and, bottom, ''Go Green: The Environment Vase.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROBERT WRIGHT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); SUPREME COURTS (62%); CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENTS (50%)

COMPANY: CRAIGSLIST INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%); JOHN EDWARDS (52%); JOHN ENSIGN (50%); MARK SANFORD (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2010



350 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Cars; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 933 words

HEADLINE: More Power, Less Fuel? It Can Be Done With Gas

BYLINE: By PAUL STENQUIST

 BODY:
FOR now, the internal combustion engine is holding its own.
While electric and hybrid vehicles dominate headlines, vehicle manufacturers have devoted considerable resources to the development of internal combustion engines. Achieving better fuel economy without performance loss is their objective, and the numbers suggest they are on the right path.
An important enabler in the push for efficient power has been direct fuel injection, which rather than squirting fuel into the intake ports, delivers it in precisely metered amounts into the cylinders at the critical moment in the compression cycle. That cools the cylinders, reducing the tendency toward spark knock, while allowing higher cylinder pressure. If the engine computer is properly mapped to control that injection and other events like valve timing, spark timing and boost, both power and efficiency are improved. As a result, engine displacement can be reduced without loss of performance, causing fuel economy to go up and vehicle weight to come down. 
Though the engines listed below are not the only high-tech designs available, they are among the best and serve as a representative sample of what is in showrooms. Most have lightweight aluminum blocks and heads, dual overhead cams and four valves per cylinder. Almost all are gasoline engines, which dominate the American market. At one time, the dearth of diesels in the United States was a matter of consumer preference. Today, that scarcity is largely the result of tough nitrogen oxide emission standards, which are difficult for diesels to meet.
Audi's 3-liter TFSI V-6 This engine, which is for the Q7 sport utility vehicle, combines a supercharger with direct injection, variable timing of intake valves and a stout compression ratio. The V-6 generates 333 horsepower, only 17 less than the 4.2-liter V-8 that powered Audi's previous model, while fuel consumption is down 11.5 percent, the automaker says.
FORD'S 2-LITER ECOBOOST This 4-cylinder marries turbocharging with direct injection and variable timing of both intake and exhaust valves. It will be available in the 2011 Explorer with a rating of 237 horsepower. That is 27 more horsepower than the 4-liter V-6 in the 2010 Explorer. Ford claims fuel economy will be 30 percent better than that of the V-6 Explorer, which would put it at 18 miles per gallon in the city and 26 m.p.g. on the highway. Dan Kapp, Ford's director of power-train research, said a combination of turbocharger boost and direct injection nearly doubled an engine's torque output per liter. Thus, downsizing the engine does not cause a loss of performance.
BMW'S 3-LITER INLINE SIX This engine, for the 2011 135i, features a twin-scroll turbocharger, with direct injection, variable-valve timing and a three-stage intake. It also has Valvetronic, which expands on the idea of variable valve lift and regulates the intake valve to restrict the flow of air, replacing the throttle. No closed throttle at low speed reduces pumping losses and consequently fuel use. BMW claims response is also improved. The three-stage intake varies intake-path length to maintain airflow speed and increase power. The net result is 300 horsepower and a broad torque curve, with at least 300 pound-feet of torque on tap from 1,200 to 5,000 r.p.m. Fuel economy numbers are 18 city/25 highway. Zero to 60 acceleration requires a scant 5.4 seconds.
TOYOTA'S 2.5-LITER 4GR-FSE V-6 The engine injects fuel directly into the cylinders but does not employ a supercharger or turbocharger to deliver air, which allows for a high compression ratio of 12:1. Dual variable-valve timing and some high-tech manipulation of the intake airflow improve efficiency. The engine produces 204 horsepower in the 2011 Lexus IS 250, while achieving fuel economy of 21/30.
BUICK'S TWO FOUR-CYLINDERS These engines, for the 2011 Regal, both employ direct injection and variable valve timing on intake and exhaust. The standard 2.4-liter four is normally aspirated and produces 182 horsepower. Federal fuel economy numbers are not yet final, but General Motors estimates mileage of 20 in the city and 30 on the highway. An optional 2-liter four-cylinder combines a turbocharger with the direct injection for 220 horsepower. The loss of fuel economy is minimal, estimated at 18/29 m.p.g.
INFINITI'S 5.6-LITER VVEL V-8 The engine, available on the 2011 Infiniti M56, uses both variable-valve timing and variable-valve lift. As in the BMW engine, airflow is controlled by regulating the intake valve rather than a throttle valve. Reduced pumping losses improve fuel economy, emissions and response. Like most of today's advanced engines, Infiniti's big V-8 relies on direct injection for precision and reduced engine knock. Output is 420 horsepower, yet fuel economy is reasonable at 16/25 for the Infiniti M56.
VOLKSWAGEN'S 2-LITER TDI This four-cylinder is one of a few diesel engines available in the United States. Like other advanced diesels, it employs common-rail direct fuel injection and a turbocharger to develop a highly respectable 140 horsepower and plenty of low-speed torque. That is enough to take a VW Jetta with six-speed manual transmission from zero to 60 in 8.7 seconds. More important, it can achieve fuel economy of 30/42 when equipped with the dual-clutch automatic transmission.
The VW diesel meets American emission standards by using exhaust gas recirculation to cool combustion and by storing excessive nitrogen oxide in a catalytic converter. The engine management system empties the storage catalyst periodically by increasing the richness of the fuel mixture for a few seconds.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: COMBUSTERS: Clockwise from left: the 2011 turbocharged 2-liter for the Buick Regal
 the Audi 3-liter TFSI and a cutaway image of the Volkswagen 2-liter TDI diesel engine. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HYBRID VEHICLES (90%); COMBUSTION TECHNOLOGIES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (78%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); EMISSIONS (72%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (65%); NITROGEN OXIDES (50%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (85%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2011



351 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; MEMO FROM MOLLET DE VALLeS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1174 words

HEADLINE: A Casualty Both of War And the Spanish Economy

BYLINE: By RACHEL DONADIO and DALE FUCHS

 BODY:
MOLLET DE VALLES, Spain -- Belly Meneses Diaz and John Felipe Romero Moreno have a special shelf in their living room. It holds a Spanish flag, war medals and a polished wooden box with the ashes of their youngest son. He was 21 when he was killed in northern Afghanistan earlier this year.
In the larger history of the Afghan war, the death of John Felipe Romero Meneses may be a footnote, but it is a poignant one. Like many soldiers in the Spanish Army -- and a number of its casualties -- Mr. Romero Meneses was a Colombian immigrant who joined the army after 2002, when Spain opened its armed forces to noncitizens.
In a country where memories of the 1936 Spanish Civil War and the 40-year dictatorship of Franco are still fresh, Mr. Romero Meneses' story raises complex questions about patriotism and citizenship. But the soldier was not only a casualty of war. He was also a victim of the economic crisis who, with his parents, left a turbulent country to seek a better life in Spain and wound up joining the army because he could not find a job. 
Mr. Romero Meneses' parents believe that immigrant soldiers should be granted Spanish citizenship upon joining the army, because many risk their lives for their adopted country.
''For the army, he was Spanish,'' Ms. Meneses Diaz, his mother, said on a recent morning, fighting back tears in the family apartment in this working-class suburb of Barcelona. ''But for everything else, he was Colombian.''
Spain began allowing immigrants into the army in 2002 because it could not recruit enough Spaniards to fill its ranks after abolishing the draft. There are now 5,800 immigrant soldiers in the Spanish Army, about 7 percent of Spain's 88,500 troops.
Immigrants can serve only up to six years unless they obtain citizenship through the normal channels, which are often slow. The time limit effectively prohibits them from advancing through the ranks, according to the director of a military association that defends soldiers' rights.
Critics have accused the Spanish Army of placing immigrants disproportionately on the front lines, while others have questioned their patriotism.
With the notable exception of France with its Foreign Legion, Spain is one of a handful of member countries in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization to allow noncitizens to join its armed forces. After the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11, 2001, the United States made it easier for nonnative soldiers to become citizens and lowered barriers for illegal immigrant relatives of soldiers to become naturalized.
The Spanish Defense Ministry acknowledges that it does not help expedite the citizenship process, but it says that it provides the same compensation to the families of all soldiers who have died in the line of duty, regardless of nationality.
Mr. Romero Meneses is one of six immigrants killed in attacks while serving in missions abroad since Spain sent its first foreign soldiers overseas in January 2003. Nearly half of Spain's 126 overseas deaths since were caused by a single military plane crash in Turkey in 2003.
Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero withdrew troops from Iraq to fulfill a campaign promise soon after his election in 2004 but has continued to support the Afghanistan war.
As Spain celebrated its National Day on Tuesday with a military parade in downtown Madrid, the front cover of ABC, a center-right daily, carried an image unthinkable a few years ago: a large photo of a black solider in Spain's Civil Guard standing at attention.
Indeed, in many ways, Mr. Romero Meneses is a shining example of Spain's radical transformation in the past 15 years from a country that people once left to escape poverty and repression to one that has welcomed millions of immigrants, who now account for nearly 10 percent of the population of 46 million.
But Mr. Romero Meneses was also driven into the army by the economic crisis, which has hit particularly hard in Spain, where unemployment is now 20 percent.
Although he had the legal right to reside in Spain, he decided to join the army at age 18, soon after moving to Spain with his family, because it would grant him working papers. Without them, he faced a future of makeshift contracts with under-the-table pay.
''If he had another option, he would not have gone into the army,'' Ms. Meneses Diaz said. ''He was very frustrated at home, and one day he just said, 'I'm going to enlist,' and he joined before even getting to know the city of Barcelona.''
He spent three years in the army, most of the time stationed near his parents' apartment. He would come home for weekends and took pride in his work. In early 2009, he told his parents he was training to go to Afghanistan. His unit left last November.
Mr. Romero Meneses was killed in northern Afghanistan in February, when the vehicle he was traveling in hit an antitank mine.
His parents, both 46, are deeply proud of their son's achievements. They display his three medals, one from NATO, with many photos of him in the army -- including one in which Mr. Romero Meneses stands proud and tall as he swears allegiance to the Spanish flag.
Crown Prince Felipe of Spain attended the state funeral for him in February, and a Colombian bishop gave the homily.
But his parents still believe immigrants like their son deserve better.
''They're treated like -- what's the word?'' his mother asked, as she fought back tears, turning to her husband on a quiet Sunday morning.
''Mercenaries,'' Mr. Romero Moreno answered quietly. ''They're soldiers who work for money.''
Indeed, Alvaro Zuleta, the president of Aculco, an association of Colombians in Spain, said the government had asked his group's support for two recruitment campaigns, and many enlisted. But the group had a change of heart after the first three Colombians were killed in June 2007.
''We began to think it wasn't clear that Latin American soldiers should be going to wars in which Spain is participating under the Spanish flag when it's not their own flag,'' Mr. Zuleta said.
The army holds a complex place in Spanish society, which is still coming to terms with Franco and where there is still intense national debate over which side shed more blood in the 1936 Civil War. It was not until the war in the Balkans in the mid-1990s that many Spaniards began to see their army as part of a broader mission to keep peace in Europe rather than a source of internal national division.
Immigration complicates the picture. But unlike elsewhere in Europe, where anti-immigrant sentiment runs high, in Spain immigrants seem to be taken in stride. ''They're welcome in the army,'' said Jesus Martinez Sanchez, 67, a retired contractor watching the military parade.
Gerson Jaimes, a 29-year-old soldier from Colombia who was riding with Mr. Romero Meneses but escaped the blast with minor injuries, recalls fondly the day he swore allegiance to the Spanish flag.
''I was very happy,'' he said in his Barcelona apartment, decorated with souvenirs from his two and a half years in Afghanistan. ''I had reached my objective. I felt like a Spanish soldier.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A memorial to John Felipe Romero Meneses. A Colombian immigrant, he joined the Spanish Army because he needed a job.
 John Felipe Romero Moreno and Belly Meneses Diaz believe Spain should grant immigrant soldiers citizenship. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LOURDES SEGADE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (91%); CITIZENSHIP (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); CIVIL WAR (77%); TERRORISM (72%); FAMILY (72%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (70%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (70%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (67%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BARCELONA, SPAIN (79%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (58%) SPAIN (96%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (75%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2010



352 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Cars; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 876 words

HEADLINE: Hyundai Took on Toyota. Now for BMW.

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

 BODY:
JOHN HARMON used to drive high-end models by BMW, Cadillac, Mercedes and Jaguar.
Now the Harmons are a Hyundai family.
They already own two -- a 2008 Santa Fe sport utility vehicle and a 2005 Elantra -- and Mr. Harmon, a Chicago-area electrical contractor who owns several construction companies, has his eye on the Equus, a nearly $60,000 sedan that arrives in November.
''This will go head-to-head with the BMWs and Mercedes,'' Mr. Harmon said. ''If you test-drive all of them with your eyes closed, you're going to pick the Hyundai.'' 
The idea that Hyundai could compete with luxury automakers would have seemed absurd two decades ago, when its low-quality cars made the South Korean company a laughingstock in the United States.
These days, rivals know not to underestimate Hyundai and its affiliate, Kia, which have been posting record sales during one of the auto industry's most difficult periods.
''The challenge for the Korean companies is just to keep this winning streak going,'' said James Bell, executive market analyst with the automotive information firm Kelley Blue Book. ''In a lot of ways, they followed the Japanese model of how to succeed in the marketplace.''
But while Toyota and Honda built their empires largely on reliability and fuel economy, Hyundai and Kia have taken that formula a step further with a focus on making their vehicles attractive.
''You didn't really buy a Toyota Tercel because it was a beautiful car,'' Mr. Bell said. ''The factor that the Koreans have added to that mix is styling.''
As a result, Hyundai and Kia are becoming a serious threat to the Japanese dominance of most passenger car segments. Hyundai's midsize car, the Sonata, was the most researched vehicle in the country in May, according to Compete, a Boston research firm.
Sales of the Sonata, which accounts for one-third of Hyundai's total volume, are up about 50 percent this year, while demand for the Toyota Camry and the Honda Accord is down slightly. Even though the Camry and Accord remain tops in their segment, Hyundai has been closing the gap quickly.
Over all, Hyundai's market share in the United States has increased to nearly 5 percent, from 3 percent in 2008. Kia's share has grown to more than 3 percent, from 2.1 percent in 2008.
Together the two companies, which operate independently from each other in the United States but share some operations, now outsell the Japanese carmaker Nissan. In the second quarter, Hyundai was the fifth-most-considered brand in the country, bumping Nissan to sixth place, according to a Kelley Blue Book study.
Hyundai, Kia and Subaru of Japan were the only three automakers whose sales here increased in 2009.
Hyundai expects its United States sales to top 500,000 for the first time ever this year, as its rivals grapple with sales that are far below the level of several years ago, before the recession.
In fact, the recession has been a big reason behind the success that Hyundai and Kia have enjoyed in recent years. Their models are priced lower than most of the competition, but in better times many shoppers still might not have researched Hyundai or Kia enough to see what the vehicles offered.
''It gave us an opportunity to really reach some people who might not have looked at us before -- people who would have defaulted into an Accord or Camry,'' John Krafcik, the chief executive of Hyundai Motors America, said. ''Times like these that force people to go deeper into the purchase analysis definitely favor us.''
David Champion, the director of automotive testing for Consumer Reports, said shoppers who had not checked out Korean cars lately would probably be surprised.
''You're not getting a bargain-basement car,'' Mr. Champion said. ''You're getting a very well-equipped car with good reliability. Every new Kia and Hyundai that we've tried has been so much better than the previous model and really, really competitive.''
But for all their strides, the Korean companies still have work to do before they are broadly perceived to be among the industry's elite brands.
''It's still going to take time to get people into the cars and to spread the word of mouth,'' said Mr. Champion, who described Hyundai's foray into the luxury segments as selling ''an Armani suit with a Wal-Mart label.''
Hyundai and Kia have been marketing themselves heavily to overcome outdated perceptions -- in some cases filling voids left as the Detroit automakers pulled back on sponsorships and ads during big events like the Super Bowl.
''We didn't use to see doctors and lawyers and that type of affluent buyer, because it just wasn't socially acceptable to pull up in a Hyundai,'' said Brian Malpeli, who has sold Hyundais since the brand's early years and is the general sales manager at World Hyundai in Matteson, Ill. ''But the more and more people start noticing us, the more they see the value in it.''
Mr. Harmon, who bought his Santa Fe at World Hyundai, says saving thousands of dollars to get what he considers a more enjoyable vehicle trumps any concerns about whether the brand is fashionable.
''I know what kind of quality I'm sitting in,'' he said. ''I don't care if I pull up next to a Porsche in my Santa Fe, because he spent $110,000 for his, and I spent $30,000 for mine, and I like mine more than his.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A SECOND LOOK: Brian Malpeli, in Matteson, Ill., said, ''We didn't use to see doctors and lawyers and that type of affluent buyer, because it just wasn't socially acceptable to pull up in a Hyundai.''
 ON THE LOT: Mike and Cheryl Clifford consider Hyundais with Edwin Hernandez, center, of World Hyundai in Matteson. Above, the new Hyundai Equus, built to take on luxury cars. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEVE KAGAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SEDANS (78%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); SALES FIGURES (76%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (75%); MARKET SHARE (60%)

COMPANY: BAYERISCHE MOTOREN WERKE AG (BMW) (92%); HYUNDAI MOTOR CO (92%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (92%); HYUNDAI CORP (91%); KELLEY BLUE BOOK CO INC (55%)

TICKER: BMW (FRA) (92%); BMW (BIT) (92%); HYUD (LSE) (92%); 005380 (KSE) (92%); TYT (LSE) (92%); TM (NYSE) (92%); 7203 (TSE) (92%); 011760 (KSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3569 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (92%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS423830 INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (91%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (91%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC5051 METALS SERVICE CENTERS & OFFICES (91%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2011



353 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; ON LOCATION; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 966 words

HEADLINE: A Change in Plans: An Architect Builds

BYLINE: By FRED A. BERNSTEIN

 BODY:
Austin, Tex.
MARSHA FATINO and Alison Thorn could almost feel the money slipping through their fingers.
Their architect, Burton Baldridge, had designed a house for the couple, for a lot they owned here; he estimated the construction costs at $461,000. In early 2008, that figure seemed reasonable. ''We were pre-approved all over,'' said Ms. Fatino, 49, a former marketing executive. ''Banks couldn't wait to lend us money.''
But eight months later, just as they were ready to break ground, the economy collapsed, and the same banks that had pre-approved them were no longer offering construction loans, she said. 
It took months of what Ms. Fatino described as nearly full-time effort, but she and Ms. Thorn, 42, an account manager for a high-tech interactive company, were finally able to get a loan -- some $365,000. They could make up some of the shortfall from their retirement accounts, but those had also suffered in the economic downturn; the only way to build the house was to cut the budget.
So Mr. Baldridge sat down with his employees, Shawn Brown and Ted Slate, and gave them a choice: the three of them could do the construction themselves -- ''contributing real sweat equity,'' as he put it -- or let the house, and possibly their jobs, fall by the wayside. (The fees from Ms. Thorn and Ms. Fatino would cover salaries and overhead, but Mr. Baldridge wouldn't make a profit on the job.)
One option they didn't consider, Mr. Baldridge said, was ''hiring the cheapest subcontractors we could find,'' because they didn't want to risk compromising the house's sleek modernist details.
The men voted to build the house.
When it came to construction, though, Mr. Brown said, some of them ''didn't have a lot of experience.''
''The way you make up for that is to really care how it comes out,'' he added, describing the process as ''lovin' on it a whole lot.''
Mr. Slate mounted the Corten steel that forms the distinctive front facade, then sprayed it with muriatic acid to rust it overnight. (The facade cost about $5 a square foot installed, Mr. Baldridge said.) And Mr. Brown and Mr. Baldridge, who had taken welding courses at Austin Community College, welded the stair supports.
It wasn't what Mr. Baldridge, 43, had in mind when he left a career in law and, in 2005, founded Burton Baldridge Architects, a design-build firm that supervises projects from conception to completion.
''We didn't mean design-build quite this literally,'' he said. But like many architects determined to see a career through the recession, he said, he did what he had to do.
As for the clients, Ms. Fatino said, ''We decided to hold hands and jump.''
The couple's previous home was a 1930s cottage on the same site, which Ms. Fatino had bought in 1997. Among its problems were sewer lines that sent water gurgling up into their bathtubs.
''When it became poltergeist-y,'' Ms. Thorn said, they knew they needed a new house. But they didn't want to leave their neighborhood, despite the towering three-story house their next-door neighbor had recently built that made them feel ''like fish in a fish tank.''
So they began interviewing architects, looking for someone who could design a house that would restore their privacy. To Mr. Baldridge, that meant creating a structure with small windows on the west facade, facing the neighbor, and large expanses of glass on the east, where a live oak tree and old wooden fences provide shade. (That also jibed with Mr. Baldridge's goal of making the house energy-efficient, by keeping the hot afternoon sun out.)
The house Mr. Baldridge designed has a one-story garage, with a sod roof that doubles as an herb garden off the second-floor kitchen. The kitchen is part of a double-height space with a wraparound stairway. There is a music room for Ms. Fatino, who plays guitar, and an art studio for Ms. Thorn's painting and photography projects. And lots of room for the couple's three dogs -- two Chihuahuas and a Chinese crested powder puff -- to roam.
On the roof, there was going to be a ''sky box'' -- a small art room/meditation area that was eliminated to reduce the cost (though the supports remain, so it can be added at a later date). That was the biggest change; the others involved materials and finishes.
Instead of using CaesarStone for the countertops, the designers made them out of hot rolled steel covered in layers of epoxy. Floors that were going to be hardwood are cement -- the actual structural slab, covered in a sealer called DuraSheen. An accent wall that was going to be stone is now white pine. And most notably, the wraparound stairway was made from off-the-shelf lumber.
When it came time to paint the walls, the crew -- which, at various times, also included the designers Brian Bedrosian, Bill Ollivent, Margaret Saunders and Aaron Sleator -- decided on one coat instead of two, to reduce the painting costs. They also decided to dispense with baseboards.
At 2,500 square feet, the new house is more than twice as big as the cottage, but it is so energy efficient, Ms. Fatino and Ms. Thorn said, that their electric bills are about half of what they were.
They have learned that they don't need a lot of furniture, including most of what they put in storage when the cottage was torn down. ''We're unpacking all the stuff, going, 'Why did we save this?' '' Ms. Fatino said.
Mr. Baldridge and his crew provided so many built-ins that there's almost no need for bookcases, dressers or desks, although there are several empty rooms the women hope to fill with modern furniture. But not just yet.
One decision they made, after the economic downturn, was that they would no longer buy anything on credit. ''Now we're cash-only customers,'' Ms. Fatino said decisively. ''Burton gave us a beautiful canvas to paint on. We'll do that, even if it takes some time.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: 1. The designers installed clerestory windows and glass railings to maintain the airiness of the central double-height space. On the level below the TV area, screen doors open onto an ''outdoor living room.''
2. What was going to be a stone wall in the screened porch is now economical white pine. The fireplace surround was made of steel left over when architects built the window frames.
3. Narrow windows maintain privacy on the side of the home facing a neighbor's three-story house. On the other side, the facade is mostly glass.
4. Most of the exterior is covered in Corten steel. ''Once it's up, you don't have to do anything to it,'' said Ted Slate, one of the designers.
5. Kitchen counters made of hot rolled steel, a concrete floor and a stairway of offthe- shelf lumber provided low-cost modernism. Marsha Fatino, an owner, said they would say to the architect, '''Help us save money,' and he would brainstorm'' solutions.
6. The designers made window frames themselves to save money. Shawn Brown, one of the designers, recalled welding them on summer days when it was ''spontaneous-combustion hot.''
 7. Thanks to extensive cabinetry, Ms. Fatino, left, and Alison Thorn don't need a lot of furniture. They plan to buy a few new pieces, Ms. Fatino said, but ''we're cashonly customers.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RYANN FORD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (89%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (89%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (69%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (67%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (66%); WAGES & SALARIES (66%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (90%) TEXAS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2010



354 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1294 words

HEADLINE: Turning Business Owners Into Stars of Their Own Stories

BYLINE: By JESSICA BRUDER

 BODY:
ONCE upon a time in Chicago, there lived a man named Abe. He owned a neighborhood pharmacy, Polin Drugs, and worked behind the counter. His father and two sons lent a hand. When people could not afford doctors during the Great Depression, they scraped by on Abe's free advice. He kept the doors open until midnight. He knew his customers by name.
Two generations later, Abe -- or at least this sepia-toned snapshot of him -- is the figurehead of an online venture in a world he would not recognize, invoked by a grandson he did not live long enough to meet.
That venture is Abe's Market, an e-commerce hub that opened in October 2009 and sells natural, organic and eco-friendly products from more than 180 small businesses around the country. The Web site's founders -- Jon Polin, 40, and Richard Demb, 33, Chicago entrepreneurs and longtime friends -- say they believe they can offer customers something that eBay and Amazon cannot. 
Their secret weapon? Stories about decent, hardworking people -- people like Abe, Mr. Polin's grandfather.
Abe is a throwback to a world before globalization, to a time when economies were local and transactions were slow, face-to-face and personal. Today, much of commerce feels anonymous. The retail landscape is crowded with big-box stores. Online sales surpassed $155 billion last year and are continuing to grow, according to Forrester Research.
But there are pockets of resistance. The number of farmers' markets, for example, has more than doubled over the last decade, according to a recent federal Agriculture Department report. There are 6,132 registered markets around the country, up 16 percent in the last year. And the consumers who shop at those markets are the sort of people Abe's Market hopes to attract online.
''People want to buy from other people,'' Mr. Demb said. ''There are very few opportunities to meet the people who make your products. We look at Abe's Market as a limitless farmers' market.''
The Web site offers plenty of getting-to-know-you yarns, starting with the tale of Abe. There are also introductions to Mr. Polin, whose ''first job was vending peanuts and Frosty Malts at Cubs and White Sox games,'' and to Mr. Demb, who spent childhood summers on sales calls with his grandfather Morton Einbinder, a wholesale grocer. Today, Mr. Polin is a veteran brand manager whose credits include marketing campaigns for Clorox and Capital One. Mr. Demb is a former investment banker and co-founder of Dale and Thomas Popcorn.
Abe's merchants build individual profile pages, called seller stories, to introduce themselves. For example, Michael Cochrane, the co-founder of Yumnuts in Norwalk, Conn., is a second-generation nut man. He was inspired to create a line of naturally flavored cashews by working with his father, an international nut broker. Erin Krug, a former science teacher in Hanover, Pa., started Krug's Eco-Logic after friends urged her to sell the creams she had concocted to treat her young children's sensitive skin. And Karl Wald had a life-changing adventure in Sri Lanka, which led him to create Mr. Ellie Pooh, a Brooklyn company that sells notebooks made with recycled elephant dung.
And the stories keep on coming. On Oct. 18, Abe's Market plans to introduce Abe's Live, a streaming online broadcast where sellers will tell their stories and demonstrate products in real time. This is all part of a phenomenon that branding experts call ''my story'' marketing: a style of reaching out to consumers that emphasizes the people behind the products.
''It's hugely about humanizing the businesses and connecting who they are with the imputed values of their target customer set,'' said Nancy F. Koehn, a historian and brand expert at the Harvard Business School. ''That's a long way from 'four out of five dentists recommend Trident for their patients who chew gum' -- or Mrs. Olson talking to you, saying your marriage will fall apart if you don't use Folgers. It's a very different kind of game, going down to layers that 'Mad Men' never dreamed of.''
(What the ''Mad Men'' protagonist Don Draper would make of ''my story'' marketing is anyone's guess, but in the television show's first episode this season, he told a reporter: ''I'm from the Midwest. We were taught that it's not polite to talk about yourself.'')
Abe's Market is hardly the only company emphasizing stories. Etsy, an online bazaar for handmade goods, also encourages personal storytelling and claims to have facilitated $179.4 million in sales during the first half of this year. Another e-commerce start-up, The Daily Grommet (slogan: ''Fresh Finds, True Stories''), encourages customers to embrace the spirit of ''citizen commerce'' by spending money with business owners who share their values.
But can all this storytelling be converted into dollars for Abe's Market, which takes 30 percent of each sale it brokers? Several angel investors are banking on that, including Toby Coppel, the former head of Yahoo Europe, Index Ventures and the Accelerator Group. (Abe's Market would not disclose how much seed capital these investors have provided.)
''Given Richard and Jon's excellent track record, I think this is a very interesting investment,'' Mr. Coppel wrote in an e-mail. ''Abe's is building a very strong buyer community that is extremely passionate about organic and natural products and wants to connect with the people behind the products they buy.''
So far, revenue at the eight-employee company is modest: Mr. Demb expects Abe's Market to make $1.5 million in sales for its vendors in 2011. Since May, sales dollars have doubled every 30 to 45 days, he added.
One challenge for Mr. Polin and Mr. Demb will be to maintain enthusiasm for the online experience offered by Abe's Market and its vendors -- rather than just enhancing the reputations of individual sellers. Most of Abe's vendors maintain their own Web stores, which means customers are not locked into buying through Abe's Market. But Mr. Polin says he believes that consumers will choose to do their one-stop natural goods shopping at Abe's.
''We're often cheaper than buying with our manufacturers directly,'' he added, explaining that Abe's Market offers shipping promotions and gets discounted package rates with U.P.S. He also says that Abe's sellers agree to offer their products at the same price or cheaper than they appear elsewhere. Above all, Mr. Polin says that Abe's role as a curator of healthy, eco-friendly goods will appeal to a growing segment of Americans.
Abe's Market sellers sound happy to come along for the adventure. After all, Abe's offers the kind of exposure that many tiny companies cannot afford individually. ''Our manufacturers are great at manufacturing products,'' Mr. Polin said. ''We're great at selling products. Let them do their thing; let us do our thing.''
Zhi Tea does its thing in Austin, Tex. Jeffrey Lorien, 48, who also goes by Dr. Oolong, said he started Zhi Tea in 2007 because, ''I wanted to put a face and people into this industry, rather than these faceless brands.''
Mr. Lorien opened his Web store in July 2007, ''to little fanfare,'' he recalled, laughing. He built his brand slowly, by word of mouth, handing out samples of his favorite blends at a local farmer's market, evangelizing tea wherever he could. Today, his products appear in more than a hundred boutiques and restaurants and at a dozen Whole Foods stores.
One of 50 vendors on Abe's Market when the site opened last year, Mr. Lorien is scheduled to be the first guest on Abe's Live next week, appearing through a video feed. Mr. Lorien expects the people from Abe's Market to interview him, asking the kinds of questions that will bring his ''Doctor Oolong'' side to life: ''They're always asking about me and my story and making it human.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jon Polin, left, and Richard Demb are the founders of the Web site Abe's Market. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SALLY RYAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRANDPARENTS (89%); RETAILERS (88%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); RETAIL PHARMACEUTICALS (78%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); INTERNET RETAILING (75%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (74%); PHARMACIES (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); RETAIL SALES (72%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (70%); BRANDING (70%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (70%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (69%); GLOBALIZATION (66%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (64%)

COMPANY: FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (54%)

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%) ILLINOIS, USA (88%); CONNECTICUT, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2010



355 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Cars; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1596 words

HEADLINE: Detroit Refueled

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC

 BODY:
IT wasn't long ago that American consumers were wondering whether Detroit's troubled auto companies would survive, much less prosper again.
Decades of decline and financial pressures had finally caught up with the beleaguered Big Three. Without hefty government bailouts last year, chances were that General Motors and Chrysler would go out of business and drag their suppliers, and possibly Ford Motor, down with them.
Now, with Ford leading the way, Detroit is recapturing the interest of many consumers who ditched domestic brands in favor of Asian and European models.
''Ten years ago, the younger, more cutting-edge buyer was mostly interested in cars from Japan and Germany,'' said Art Spinella, president of the consulting firm CNW Research in Bandon, Ore. ''That is changing and changing fast. Detroit all of a sudden seems fresher than the competition.'' 
This revitalization has little to do with the government bailouts. People are considering American cars because of their improved quality and fuel economy, and high-tech features that are equal to or better than those offered by overseas manufacturers.
''Detroit is building its comeback the old fashioned way -- with competitive products,'' Mr. Spinella said.
Sales of Detroit's vehicles have climbed 11 percent this year through August, compared with an 8 percent increase for the overall market. Both G.M. and Ford are profitable for the first time in years, in part because of improved sales and higher sticker prices that customers are increasingly willing to pay.
Ford, which managed to stay afloat without help from taxpayers, is leading the pack with an 18 percent gain in sales, fed by a sweeping makeover of its vehicle lineup.
''Our consideration rates have grown remarkably for our industry,'' said James Farley, Ford's global marketing chief. ''The reason is we can now show customers the cold, hard facts that our vehicles are world class.''
The proof emerged this summer in the influential ''initial quality study'' of new cars conducted by the research firm J. D. Power & Associates.
For the first time since the study was inaugurated 24 years ago, the domestic auto brands posted better scores on quality than imports. Consumers reported 108 problems per 100 vehicles in domestic brands, versus 109 for imported models.
''This year may mark a key turning point for U.S. brands as they continue to fight the battle against lingering negative perceptions of their quality,'' said David Sargent, vice president for global vehicle research at J. D. Power.
Ford's surge in quality has been particularly impressive. It trailed only the luxury brands Porsche, Acura, Mercedes-Benz and Lexus in initial quality.
And Ford has blown past Toyota, once considered the paragon of reliability for new-car buyers. While Ford registered 93 problems per 100 cars in the survey, Toyota had 117. The improvements at Ford have managed to change consumers' perception of American vehicles in general.
''Ford has become almost the 'halo brand' for G.M. and Chrysler,'' Mr. Spinella said. ''Because of Ford's success, people are less resistant in general to considering all of Detroit's products.''
Recent surveys of consumers by CNW Research show a marked change in attitudes toward Detroit by younger buyers in particular. Three years ago, more than 40 percent of new-vehicle shoppers under the age of 30 said they would never consider a Detroit-made product. Now that figure is 32 percent and dropping steadily.
When Ryan Kelso, a 28-year-old information systems analyst, began looking for a car to replace his Toyota Corolla, he was intrigued by the improvements at Ford.
Mr. Kelso had not owned a domestic vehicle for several years. His last one was a Ford Ranger pickup, and it was not a pleasant experience.
''It had some problems and kind of soured me a bit on Ford,'' said Mr. Kelso, who lives in the small town of Napavine in western Washington. ''I was kind of thinking I would buy another Japanese car.''
Mr. Kelso looked at the Nissan Altima, Honda Accord and Subaru Legacy but kept coming back to the positive reviews he had read about the new Ford Fusion midsize sedan.
''I was prepared and ready to buy the Altima, but the Fusion just got really good marks from all the reviews,'' he said. ''So I decided to test drive the Fusion and I could tell immediately that this was a really nice car.''
Mr. Kelso, who calls himself a techie, was impressed by the voice-activated phone in Ford's Sync multimedia system. ''I thought, this is pretty cool,'' he said.
He has a 2010 model Fusion on order. ''It just had everything I needed,'' Mr. Kelso said.
Mr. Farley of Ford beamed at the description ''pretty cool,'' but said that nuts-and-bolts quality and a positive driving experience were the bigger reasons shoppers were considering Ford products.
''The cool factor in design and high technology is critical,'' he said. ''But it's the fundamental, underlying trust that people have in our vehicles that is the foundation for shopping our brand.''
Mr. Farley worked for Toyota for 17 years before joining Ford in 2007. As a longtime competitor, he knew well the baggage that Detroit carried for years as a purveyor of subpar cars that could not match the quality of Japanese models.
He said that the financial crisis that landed General Motors and Chrysler in bankruptcy actually helped raise awareness of the steady improvement that Detroit -- and Ford in particular -- had made.
''For the first time in many years, Americans debated the value of our industry,'' he said. ''When the crisis happened, they started to notice that we were doing things differently and our cars had gotten a lot better.''
Industry analysts say that consumers are proving they do not hold Detroit's past problems against them.
''Things do move pretty quickly,'' said Jeremy Anwyl, president of the auto research Web site Edmunds.com. ''Look at how people have reacted to Toyota and its safety issues. People react fast to both improvements and problems.''
Despite their financial problems in recent times, G.M. and Ford have not scaled back spending on new products. In fact, the companies have brought out more new models in the last two years than Toyota and Honda.
G.M., for example, can hardly keep up with demand for its hottest new vehicles like the Buick LaCrosse, Cadillac CTS and Chevrolet Equinox -- all of which marry provocative designs with efficient engines and superior handling.
In the past, Japanese cars have overcome bland styling with their reliability and fuel economy. Now that Detroit has improved quality and engine performance, its sleeker designs help its models stand out.
Like Ford, G.M. sees a clear advantage over foreign rivals in the area of car electronics. The company is overhauling its OnStar brand to include more information and entertainment options, like the ability to get access to Facebook accounts with hands-free technology.
Ford's Sync system has become a major selling point. Since its introduction three years ago, Ford has sold 2.5 million vehicles equipped with Sync, and Mr. Farley said some consumers sought out Ford because of the high-tech feature.
''Sync-equipped cars sell faster than nonequipped models,'' he said. ''Imagine that -- a $295 option is causing the whole car to sell quicker.''
Even Chrysler, which has struggled since emerging from bankruptcy, is gaining traction. The company's new Jeep Grand Cherokee has been well received because it offers a more comfortable ride without compromising Jeep's tradition of off-road capability. Down the road, Chrysler's new partner Fiat will bring a fleet of smaller, more fuel-efficient passenger cars to Chrysler showrooms.
The combination of new technology, popular designs and better quality has transformed Detroit from a laggard to a leader, Mr. Spinella said.
The last time Gary Bernstein of Marlton, N.J., owned an American car was 10 years ago, when he had a Jeep. Since then, he has owned a Mitsubishi, an Audi and a Nissan.
Now he is looking at a Chevy Equinox or a Ford Edge to replace his Nissan Sentra. The 56-year-old freelance court reporter has been pleasantly surprised at how attracted he is to Detroit's offerings.
''I do like the gadgets, especially Sync,'' said Mr. Bernstein. ''And the ride of the American models are so much smoother and more comfortable than the Jeep I had 10 years ago.''
He was particularly impressed by the 32 m.p.g. of the roomy Equinox, with its four-cylinder engine.
''It just seems there is a lot more value in Detroit's cars than there used to be,'' he said. ''I never thought I'd say this, but the domestics have rebounded pretty well over the last few years.''
It is too soon to know where Detroit's comeback will take it. Toyota has vowed to increase its quality to higher levels after its recalls for unintended acceleration. Honda is preparing to introduce models it hopes will recapture its sizzle in the small-car market. Formidable competitors like Volkswagen and Hyundai are readying their own new-vehicle blitzes.
And every automaker will have to deal with weak demand in the United States until the economy improves. So nobody in Detroit is foolish enough to declare victory.
But with each model introduction and percentage-point gain in sales, the domestic auto manufacturers are proving that they once again are a force to be reckoned with.
''You know, during the bankruptcy I had to pause when people asked me where I worked,'' said Mr. Bly, the G.M. executive. ''Should I tell them I am with G.M.? Well, now that people want our products again I feel pretty good about saying I work for General Motors.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JONATHAN ALCORN/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (F1)
REVITALIZED: Chrysler's new Jeep Grand Cherokee offers a more comfortable ride without compromising Jeep's tradition of off-road capability.
 BACK IN THE U.S.A.: Buyers have been turning to American cars like the Ford Fusion, above, which offers the Sync multimedia system, and the midsize Buick LaCrosse. (F8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (89%); BRANDING (89%); IMPORT TRADE (87%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE RESEARCH (74%); LUXURY GOODS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (52%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (52%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2011



356 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: Exports of Chinese Goods Continued to Surge in September

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

 BODY:
SHANGHAI -- China said Wednesday that its exports continued to surge in September and that the nation's foreign exchange reserves ballooned last month, data that is likely to keep pressure on Beijing to appreciate its currency.
The government said its monthly trade surplus reached $16.9 billion in September, with exports up 25 percent and imports climbing 24 percent.
The surplus narrowed from August, when it had reached $20 billion, but it was still an enormous figure, analysts said. 
Also Wednesday, Beijing said its foreign exchange reserves soared $194 billion in September to a record $2.65 trillion, far more than economists had forecast. China already had, by far, the world's largest currency reserve holdings.
The gains show that China's fast-growing economy is chugging along and that huge amounts of foreign capital continue to flow into the country, complicating Beijing's economic policies and threatening to feed inflation and asset bubbles.
''China's facing a big challenge,'' said Wang Tao, an economist based in Beijing at UBS. ''The trade surplus is coming down, but it's still going to be $180 billion this year. And the reserve figure was $194 billion. That's huge.''
In the United States, Europe, Japan and elsewhere, there are growing worries about China's trade dominance and its effect on countries struggling to emerge from a sharp global slowdown.
Nowhere are those worries more intense than in Washington, where the Obama administration and some members of Congress are pressing China to move more quickly to appreciate its currency, hoping such a move will temper Chinese exports by making them more costly while bolstering American exports to China.
As Congressional elections approach, with the unemployment rate high, some in Congress are threatening to impose heavy tariffs on imports from China because of the country's currency policies. Some lawmakers say they believe that China is intentionally manipulating its currency to gain trading advantages.
For its part, Beijing has repeatedly said that it intends to allow its currency to appreciate and fluctuate with market forces. But the government insists it has to move at its own pace. Too sharp a move, the government says, could create huge dislocations in the country's coastal factory zones, which employ tens of millions of migrant workers.
Beijing and some prominent economists warn that intense focus on the Chinese currency is fanning protectionist sentiment in the United States and elsewhere. They argue that China did allow its currency, the renminbi, to appreciate by over 20 percent against the dollar beginning in 2005 and that the effect on trade with the United States was marginal. Raising the value of the renminbi is not a cure-all for global ills, they say.
But China is facing challenges on all fronts. Its huge accumulation of currency reserves was partly because of a rise in the value of the euro and the yen in recent months, but also an indication that foreign investment and capital is flowing into China. Huge influxes of capital are increasing money supplies in China, and the government is already trying to deal with soaring property prices and inflation.
Ms. Wang at UBS said that China was now facing greater pressure to let its currency appreciate but that it also faced risks because the rising value of its currency could encourage even larger inflows of foreign capital from speculators betting that it would go even higher.
Even those who argue that China should not immediately increase the value of its currency are worried. They say that huge trade surpluses are contributing to global imbalances that have dangerous long-term implications for the global economy, creating large surpluses in some regions while others sink in mounting debt.
One way or another, analysts say, China will have to consume more and export less, and the United States, above all, will have to grow by exporting more and consuming less.
But the focus for now seems to be on trade and job growth. In an report issued Wednesday, Qu Hongbin, an economist at HSBC, said that despite reaching $16.9 billion in September, China's trade surplus narrowed, and that trend should continue through the rest of the year, weakening the case for currency appreciation.
But, he added, ''pressures from the U.S. are likely to persist in the run-up to the midyear election.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); EURO (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); ELECTIONS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (70%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); MIGRANT WORKERS (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (92%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); EAST CHINA (91%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2010



357 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1288 words

HEADLINE: India a Hit for Foreign Investors

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
MUMBAI, India -- Two years ago, when the crisis on Wall Street reached its pinnacle, the high-flying Indian stock market fell with a thud as foreign investors took nearly $5 billion out of the country.
The situation is very different today. In September, foreign investors poured $7.1 billion into Indian stocks and bonds -- a monthly record for foreign investment in India's securities market. The major stock indexes appear poised to breach the highs that they set in early 2008, when many analysts first argued that fast-growth developing countries were ''decoupling'' from the developed world.
Talk of decoupling is in the air again, especially here in India.
The United States, along with much of Europe and Japan, may stay in the economic doldrums for some time. But many economists and policy makers here say that the problems in developed economies could benefit emerging nations like India, as Western hedge funds, banks and other investors hunt for growth opportunities. 
With an economic growth rate of nearly 9 percent and a stock market that is more open to foreign investors than mainland China's, India has become a destination of choice for financial investors. In the first nine months of the year, foreigners invested $28.5 billion in Indian stocks and bonds -- more than twice what they invested in the comparable period of 2009.
The Sensex index, India's equivalent of the Dow Jones industrial average, is up about 22 percent in the last 12 months and 114 percent since the end of 2008.
On Wednesday the index closed up 2.4 percent, to 20,687.88 points, and is now less than one percentage point away from the record high set in January 2008.
The Indian rupee has appreciated about 4 percent against the dollar so far this year.
''The rest of the world is starved for growth,'' said Manish Saini, an analyst and trader at Eastern Advisors, explaining why his New York-based hedge fund has increased investments in India and other emerging markets in the last year. ''And India is still producing relatively high real rates of G.D.P. growth.''
The strength of the market has been a boon for Indian companies, as well as the Indian government, which has been selling shares in state-owned firms. On Monday, it will start selling a 10 percent stake in Coal India, the world's largest coal-mining company, in an initial public offering. The sale could fetch up to $3.4 billion.
There are also plenty of skeptics, of course, who say that the Indian stock market may be getting dangerously frothy. And Indian individual investors, burned by the 2008 crash, have shown more wariness than foreign money managers.
But foreign investors are moving money to emerging markets in part to take advantage of a growing gap between near-zero interest rates in the United States and Japan, and rising rates in India, Brazil and elsewhere. A key benchmark rate set by the Reserve Bank of India stands at 6 percent, up 1.25 percent since March. As the difference between rates grow, traders can make more money by borrowing cheaply in dollars and yen and investing that money in higher yielding stocks and bonds in developing economies.
The Institute of International Finance, an association of financial firms, estimates that emerging markets will receive $825 billion in private capital flows this year, up from $581 billion in 2009.
Some analyst and policy makers are increasingly worried about the torrent of cash flowing from developed to developing countries.
In developed countries, the flows undercut the efforts of officials in Washington, Brussels and Tokyo to revive their economies by pumping money into the economy at low interest rates. And in developing countries, the flows threaten to raise the value of currencies, making their exports less competitive and potentially inflating bubbles in stock and real estate markets.
Some Indian analysts say they fear that the increasing bullishness about developing nations is sending stocks here to dizzying heights that may not be justified, even in light of the country's high growth rate, which some expect to slow somewhat in the coming months. Moreover, these people say investors appear to be ignoring the lessons of the recent financial crisis, which did not remain confined to the developed world.
''There are fairly serious risks of frothiness in equity markets escalating if capital continues to pour into India,'' said Eswar S. Prasad, an economics professor at Cornell. ''We may be in the boom phase of a boom-bust cycle, with all the risks that entails.''
Mr. Prasad, who has advised the Indian government on economic issues, says he worries that foreign investors in India could suddenly decide to withdraw their money, as they did in 2008, if the Indian economy slowed or if global markets were rattled by another crisis. That reversal could then pull down real economic growth in India by depriving the country of capital.
In 2008, for example, India's growth rate fell to 6.7 percent, from 9.2 percent, partly because foreign investors took billions of dollars out of Indian stocks and bonds and slowed down new investments. The slowdown severely hit real estate developers, airlines and other companies with large capital requirements.
One big concern today is that the majority of the foreign money flooding into India is going into the stock market, rather than into new projects and start-up companies. While flows into the stock market have more than doubled, foreign direct investment into India fell more than 24 percent in the first seven months of the year, to $12.5 billion, compared with the comparable period a year earlier.
Unlike holdings in the stock market, which can be sold quickly when traders in London or New York get nervous, direct investments in factories, stores and companies are harder to sell and are usually held for longer periods, economists say.
Still, Indian officials, bankers and economists say they do not worry much about a repeat of 2008. Their optimism appears to be based in part on the belief that investors are unlikely to find better opportunities elsewhere in the world.
India, these people say, is beginning a long period of high growth because its population is young and demanding more goods and services. The government is slowly beginning to improve infrastructure and further loosen control over the economy. And the financial system here is healthier than in Western countries, where banks still have many bad loans on their books.
''If you look at the Indian opportunity, most things are going in its favor,'' said Neeraj Swaroop, who heads Standard Chartered's operations in India and South Asia. ''And there aren't too many real risks that we see around the corner.''
Still, many Indians have become more cautious about the stock market. Individual investors, for instance, have not jumped at recent initial public offerings like that of SKS Microfinance, a lender to poor women that was very popular with institutional investors. By contrast, in early 2008, middle-class Indians clamored to buy public offerings like Reliance Power, an electricity firm that was relatively untested.
Surjit S. Bhalla, an economist and fund manager based in New Delhi, said he recently downgraded his bullish outlook on the global economy, because of the dour news coming out of the United States, Europe and Japan. He is more hopeful about the Indian economy but said he believed that its stock market could fall 10 percent to 15 percent.
''The Indian market rallied from last year on the expectations of broadly a V-shaped recovery, and it did obtain that,'' said Mr. Bhalla, who is managing director of Oxus Research and Investments. ''But when the V-shaped recovery became the prospect of a double-dip recession, it hasn't corrected at all.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENT (94%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BONDS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (78%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); STOCK OFFERINGS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); CURRENCIES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); HEDGE FUNDS (67%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (67%); MINES & MINING (60%); COAL MINING (60%); SALES & SELLING (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2010



358 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Personal Tech; APP SMART; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1007 words

HEADLINE: Signing Up as an Organ Donor, the Easy Way

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

 BODY:
Last September in this newspaper, the economist Richard H. Thaler wrote an article calling on Steven P. Jobs of Apple to create an app that would enable people to quickly register to donate organs. Mr. Jobs didn't answer the call, but Raymond Cheung, an independent app developer, did.
His app, DonateLives, which is free, was promptly lost in the sea of entertainment, sports and utility offerings that dominate Apple's App Store. It has been downloaded fewer than 1,000 times -- which is a shame for those who are interested in public health issues and those who are inclined to donate. 
I recently tested an updated version of the app, which works with a wider range of Apple devices, and it's well designed. Other apps aimed at prospective blood donors or bone marrow donors were not as good.
DonateLives is essentially a shortcut to Web pages for organ donation registration. You could always seek them out on your desktop computer, but it would be more challenging.
Don't have the energy to type ''organ donation registration'' into Google and sift through the 200,000 results for the right link? Got a few minutes while you wait in line at the grocery store? Pick up the iPhone, download the app and it quickly leads the way.
DonateLives opens with a page that is slightly over the top, because its users presumably already want to donate. ''Do you want to be a hero?'' it asks. ''Do you want to save a life? How about nine?''
That page gives way to another screen with a scrolling list of states. Choose one and the app displays the state's official donor registry organization, and the specific page for registration.
The page on which I registered, for Connecticut residents, was hosted by the Donate Life New England Registry. Registering took about five minutes, and included a fair amount of personal information, as one might imagine.
I assumed the page was encrypted, but on my iPhone there was no way to tell, given the lack of an ''https'' in the Web address, or a padlock icon, a common feature on desktop browsers.
David Fleming, the executive director of Donate Life America, a nonprofit organization that operates many state organ procurement registries, says the page is encrypted, as is any donor information stored on the group's servers.
The registration form asked whether I wished to donate my organs for research purposes, too, and it allowed me to dedicate my registration to the memory of a friend.
I wasn't certain whether I was still listed as an organ donor in my state, given the decades that had elapsed since I first registered (while receiving my driver's license). I did it again anyway.
Only after I had checked the ''electronic signature'' box, confirming my registration, did I receive a notice that I had signed on with an independent registry, and that my actions would not change my existing donor information at the Department of Motor Vehicles.
But that also raised a question.
When treating patients who may be eligible to donate organs, hospitals will contact the organ procurement organization in their local area. What if the information stored with the state conflicts with the information I gave to the local organ procurement organization? What if, for instance, I told only one of the organizations that I was willing to donate my organs for research?
Mr. Fleming, of Donate Life America, said hospitals would follow a person's latest directions, whether they were registered with the Department of Motor Vehicles or an organ procurement organization.
For most states listed, the app connects users to a registry operated by Donate Life America, and in most of those states the registration is completed entirely online. However, for New York, the app connects to the state health department, which requires donors to print, sign and mail a consent form to confirm the registration.
The DonateLives app did not capitalize on my altruism by also offering me a way to commit to, say, a bone marrow sample or a blood donation. Other options to do that are available, but none are great.
The Red Cross and other medical organizations have yet to release an app for helping people schedule their next blood donation. The ''iGive Blood'' iPhone app ($1) will help users track their last donation and predict when they may donate again, but even that small price is likely to discourage all but the most committed blood donors.
As for bone marrow registration, the free ''Project Swab Marrow Kit'' app requires the right device, and some blind faith. The app didn't open on an iPhone 4 or iPhone 3GS, but it worked well on a second-generation iPod Touch, an original iPhone and -- go figure -- an iPad.
The app includes stories, videos and a fact sheet about bone marrow registration, as well as a form to request a so-called Marrow Kit, which includes cotton swabs for taking a tissue cell sample from one's inner cheek, the current method for finding bone marrow matches.
The forms were easy to complete, but I never received a confirmation of my order, and more than a week later the swab kit had not arrived, so proceed with caution.
Android and BlackBerry users have no apps to help speed the registration process. They may, of course, search ''organ donor registry'' on their mobile phones and dig through the results to find the right site.
Or maybe they should just wait until medical organizations realize how cheap it is to produce a decent mobile app and offer it to users free.
Quick Calls
PlayOn is a new app that streams Hulu, Netflix, YouTube and other video from your Windows computer to your iPhone (or Xbox, Wii and PlayStation). The app is free, but the service costs $40 for the first year and $20 annually thereafter. ... Android users have a new finance app. The Bloomberg app, which is free, lets users track stocks and set up widgets on the phone's home screen that are automatically updated. ... BlackBerry fans who are in Halloween mode can download the free Jack-O-Lantern app, which includes classic pumpkin face designs, or ''Best Halloween Ringtones'' ($4) with more than 80 spooky sound clips.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Users of the DonateLives iPhone app pick a state, left, to get to its organ donor registry group and registration page. California's information is at right. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ORGAN DONATION (90%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (89%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (73%); INTERNET & WWW (73%); BLOOD DONATIONS (72%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (71%); DIGITAL SIGNATURES (66%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (86%); GOOGLE INC (55%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (86%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (86%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (86%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (86%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (86%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (86%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%)

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2010



359 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 422 words

HEADLINE: For Senator and Governor in Connecticut

 BODY:
The bitter contest to replace retiring Senator Christopher Dodd pits the charm-free, experienced public servant against the splashy business executive. Connecticut voters should pick experience.
Attorney General Richard Blumenthal, the Democrat, has led the way in attacking the tobacco plague, helped clean the region's environment and supported hundreds of individuals treated unfairly by their health insurance companies, utilities or banks. 
Mr. Blumenthal has troubled us by occasionally telling audiences, falsely, that he served in Vietnam. He has apologized in almost every public forum and made sure that he expressed his regret to real Vietnam veterans.
We have larger concerns with the Republican, Linda McMahon. She made her name and lots of money by running World Wrestling Entertainment, a noisy, demeaning business. Her policy positions, when you can discern them, are remixes of failed trickle-down ideas.
She has aligned herself with groups that oppose the minimum wage -- even though she now says she would not cut this meager safety net. She essentially expects voters to take it on faith that she will do as well in government as she did in spectacle wrestling.
She is ready to spend as much as $50 million of her own money to win the race, but she does not seem ready to take on the issues of war, the economy, public welfare and justice in Washington.
For the United States Senate in Connecticut, we endorse Richard Blumenthal.
Connecticut voters have two worthy candidates for governor: Dan Malloy, the Democrat and former Stamford mayor, and Thomas Foley, the Republican and former ambassador. Mr. Malloy is the better choice.
Mr. Foley, who was a major fund-raiser for former President George W. Bush, worked in Iraq shortly after the invasion and then became ambassador to Ireland. He is fairly new to state issues, while Mr. Malloy is steeped in Connecticut's problems and possibilities.
Both candidates have a way to go in explaining how they plan to tackle the enormous deficits next year. Mr. Foley has promised no borrowing and no new taxes, which would mean steep cuts to balance the $19 billion budget. Mr. Malloy, who is aligned with numerous unions, would have to disappoint these supporters to scale back state costs.
Mr. Foley has thrived in his investment business, although a company he ran in Georgia closed its doors after he sold it and left many unemployed. Mr. Malloy's stewardship of Stamford brought growth and prosperity to the once bedraggled city.
We endorse Mr. Malloy for governor in Connecticut.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); VIETNAM WAR (76%); BUDGETS (74%); CLOSINGS (73%); FUNDRAISING (72%); GOVERNORS (71%); VETERANS (70%); WRESTLING (69%); MINIMUM WAGE (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); US PRESIDENTS (65%); HEALTH INSURANCE (56%); INSURANCE (56%)

PERSON: RICHARD BLUMENTHAL (89%); DANNEL MALLOY (79%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2010



360 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 910 words

HEADLINE: Floccinaucinihilipilificationism: A Word as Big as the Man

BYLINE: By ALISON LEIGH COWAN

 BODY:
He advised four presidents, twice served as a United States ambassador and had a tenured chair at Harvard, all before becoming a four-term senator from New York.
Yet there was Daniel Patrick Moynihan on July 1, 1991, humbly laying on the charm in an effort to wheedle William Safire, a former colleague in the Nixon White House, into mentioning the word ''floccinaucinihilipilificationism'' in his columns for The New York Times.
Moynihan prided himself on coining the 32-letter mouthful, which he defined as ''the futility of making estimates on the accuracy of public data.'' As his typewritten letter to Mr. Safire reflects, he had created the word by adding the suffix ''ism'' to an existing word and then spent years cajoling others to pick up on it, so he could take credit for creating the longest word in the dictionary. When that goal eluded him, he restated his goal as simply wanting to get a word, any word, into the dictionary, as a way to secure his legacy. 
''I don't have much to leave my grandchild,'' the senator explained in his pitch, ''but he maybe could grow up to learn that his old granddad amounted to something, after all.''
That coy appeal is but one of hundreds of revelations sprinkled throughout an epic new book that PublicAffairs, a division of Perseus Books Group, published Tuesday. Called ''Daniel Patrick Moynihan: A Portrait in Letters of an American Visionary,'' the book includes more than 600 pages of correspondence and private papers that the 76-year-old Mr. Moynihan left behind when he died in 2003.
Steven R. Weisman, the project's editor, led the team that spent two years culling through boxes at the Library of Congress to find the bits of buried treasure on display here in this sampling and in the book. A former New York Times reporter who knew Mr. Moynihan from his travels, Mr. Weisman now works as the editorial director of the Petersen Institute for International Economics in Washington.
Students of history, philosophy and literature will find it hard to resist Mr. Moynihan's endless musings and eyewitness accounts of pivotal moments in 20th-century history, from the assassination of President John F. Kennedy to India's ascent as a nuclear power.
Smaller matters of symbolic importance also have their place. For instance, Mr. Moynihan urged President-elect Richard M. Nixon on Jan. 15, 1969, to abandon the prior administration's money-saving practice of dimming the lights outside the White House. ''At a time when the most unassuming New England village floodlights its First Presbyterian Church as a matter of course, and most of the public buildings of Washington are brilliantly lit at night, the White House appears to be in permanent mourning,'' Mr. Moynihan griped, calling the practice ''undignified.''
Four years later, when political skullduggery brought disgrace to the Nixon White House, Mr. Moynihan questioned his own political instincts and judgment. He asked his friend Nathan Glazer, ''Have I been a fool or a whore or both?''
Fans may also enjoy browsing through letters that show the man behind the statesman: someone who did not take himself too seriously, even if his ideas were snapped up by policymakers and the public.
There are sweet letters to a young constituent, which begin ''what searching questions you ask,'' and tart letters to the Smith Corona Corporation in 1974, when Mr. Moynihan, then ambassador to India, had trouble replacing the ribbon on his ancient Electra SS model typewriter.
A 1981 letter to a friend shows he was still smarting from the protracted campaign he had waged 14 years earlier to get an American Express card. The ordeal finally ended, he wrote, when he sent the company a copy of Time magazine with him on the cover. ''I have been in debt ever since,'' Mr. Moynihan reported triumphantly.
Time and again, his letters demonstrate that Mr. Moynihan, whose presidential assignments included a stint as ambassador to the United Nations, could tolerate almost anything but poor manners.
He corresponded merrily with Carmine de Sapio, an old-style political boss serving time in federal prison, and ended his Sept. 6, 1972, letter with a reassuring ''you should know you have a friend on the Harvard faculty.''
Yet, he dressed down Henry Ford II, the head of the Ford Motor Company, for treating him ''like a crack pot'' for having the nerve to call poorly designed cars a ''public health problem.'' Mr. Moynihan appeared just as offended by the executive's failure to respond to his letter personally. ''This time, I would hope to hear from you personally, or not at all,'' Mr. Moynihan wrote crisply in 1966.
Later in life, he railed against the Washington bureaucracy that expected him and other public servants with long tenure to fill out stacks of forms before they could be appointed to a presidential commission. He called it an ''ordeal by document'' and pledged to provide nothing more than his name, rank and serial number. ''Is it any wonder citizens hesitate to volunteer their services to the government?'' he vented in a May 15, 2001, letter to White House counsel Alberto R. Gonzales.
Though he was never at a loss for big words, one of Mr. Moynihan's most memorable laments was also one of his briefest.
Writing to Henry A. Kissinger on Nov. 5, 1970, Mr. Moynihan teased his longtime rival: ''If I am the more photogenic, why is it that you get all the movie stars?''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Daniel Patrick Moynihan after his Senate victory in 1976. An epic new book features his correspondence and private papers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); NATIONAL LIBRARIES (78%); ACADEMIC TENURE (78%); TESTIMONY (73%); LITERATURE (69%); LIBRARIES (64%); SPECIAL LIBRARIES (64%); ASSASSINATION (61%); HISTORY (60%); GRANDCHILDREN (52%)

COMPANY: PERSEUS BOOKS GROUP (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%)

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); RICHARD NIXON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2010



361 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1151 words

HEADLINE: Banks Ignored Signs of Trouble On Foreclosures

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH and NELSON D. SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
At JPMorgan Chase & Company, they were derided as ''Burger King kids'' -- walk-in hires who were so inexperienced they barely knew what a mortgage was.
At Citigroup and GMAC, dotting the i's and crossing the t's on home foreclosures was outsourced to frazzled workers who sometimes tossed the paperwork into the garbage.
And at Litton Loan Servicing, an arm of Goldman Sachs, employees processed foreclosure documents so quickly that they barely had time to see what they were signing.
''I don't know the ins and outs of the loan,'' a Litton employee said in a deposition last year. ''I'm not a loan officer.'' 
As the furor grows over lenders' efforts to sidestep legal rules in their zeal to reclaim homes from delinquent borrowers, these and other banks insist that they have been overwhelmed by the housing collapse.
But interviews with bank employees, executives and federal regulators suggest that this mess was years in the making and came as little surprise to industry insiders and government officials. The issue gained new urgency on Wednesday, when all 50 state attorneys general announced that they would investigate foreclosure practices. That news came on the same day that JPMorgan Chase acknowledged that it had not used the nation's largest electronic mortgage tracking system, MERS, since 2008.
That system has been faulted for losing documents and other sloppy practices.
The root of today's problems goes back to the boom years, when home prices were soaring and banks pursued profit while paying less attention to the business of mortgage servicing, or collecting and processing monthly payments from homeowners.
Banks spent billions of dollars in the good times to build vast mortgage machines that made new loans, bundled them into securities and sold those investments worldwide. Lowly servicing became an afterthought. Even after the housing bubble began to burst, many of these operations languished with inadequate staffing and outmoded technology, despite warnings from regulators.
When borrowers began to default in droves, banks found themselves in a never-ending game of catch-up, unable to devote enough manpower to modify, or ease the terms of, loans to millions of customers on the verge of losing their homes. Now banks are ill-equipped to deal the foreclosure process.
''We waited and waited and waited for wide-scale loan modifications,'' said Sheila C. Bair, the chairwoman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, one of the first government officials to call on the industry to take action. ''They never owned up to all the problems leading to the mortgage crisis. They have always downplayed it.''
In recent weeks, revelations that mortgage servicers failed to accurately document the seizure and sale of tens of thousands of homes have caused a public uproar and prompted lenders like Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase and Ally Bank, which is owned by GMAC, to halt foreclosures in many states.
Even before the political outcry, many of the banks shifted employees into their mortgage servicing units and beefed up hiring. Wells Fargo, for instance, has nearly doubled the number of workers in its mortgage modification unit over the last year, to about 17,000, while Citigroup added some 2,000 employees since 2007, bringing the total to 5,000.
''We believe we responded appropriately to staff up to meet the increased volume,'' said Mark Rodgers, a spokesman for Citigroup.
Some industry executives add that they're committed to helping homeowners but concede they were slow to ramp up. ''In hindsight, we were all slow to jump on the issue,'' said Michael J. Heid, co-president of at Wells Fargo Home Mortgage. ''When you think about what it costs to add 10,000 people, that is a substantial investment in time and money along with the computers, training and system changes involved.''
Other officials say as foreclosures were beginning to spike as early as 2007, no one could have imagined how rapidly they would reach their current level. About 11.5 percent of borrowers are in default today, up from 5.7 percent from two years earlier.
''The systems were not ever that great to begin with, but you didn't have that much strain on them,'' said Jim Miller, who previously oversaw the mortgage servicing units for troubled borrowers at Citigroup, Chase and Capitol One. ''I don't think anybody anticipated this thing getting as bad as it did.''
Almost overnight, what had been a factorylike business that relied on workers with high school educations to process monthly payments needed to come up with a custom-made operation that could solve the problems of individual homeowners. Gregory Hebner, the president of the MOS Group, a California loan modification company that works closely with service companies, likened it to transforming McDonald's into a gourmet eatery. ''You are already in chase mode, and you never catch up,'' he said.
To make matters worse, the banks had few financial incentives to invest in their servicing operations, several former executives said. A mortgage generates an annual fee equal to only about 0.25 percent of the loan's total value, or about $500 a year on a typical $200,000 mortgage. That revenue evaporates once a loan becomes delinquent, while the cost of a foreclosure can easily reach $2,500 and devour the meager profits generated from handling healthy loans.
''Investment in people, training, and technology -- all that costs them a lot of money, and they have no incentive to staff up,'' said Taj Bindra, who oversaw Washington Mutual's large mortgage servicing unit from 2004 to 2006.
And even when banks did begin hiring to deal with the avalanche of defaults, they often turned to workers with minimal qualifications or work experience, employees a former JPMorgan executive characterized as the ''Burger King kids.'' In many cases, the banks outsourced their foreclosure operations to law firms like that of David J. Stern, of Florida, which served clients like Citigroup, GMAC and others. Mr. Stern hired outsourcing firms in Guam and the Philippines to help.
The result was chaos, said Tammie Lou Kapusta, a former employee of Mr. Stern's who was deposed by the Florida attorney general's office last month. ''The girls would come out on the floor not knowing what they were doing,'' she said. ''Mortgages would get placed in different files. They would get thrown out. There was just no real organization when it came to the original documents.''
Citigroup and GMAC say they are no longer giving any new work to Mr. Stern's firm.
In some cases, even steps that were supposed to ease the situation, like the federal program aimed at helping homeowners modify their mortgages to reduce what they owed, had actually contributed to the mess. Loan servicing companies complain that bureaucratic requirements are constantly changed by Washington, forcing them to overhaul an already byzantine process that involves nearly 250 steps.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Peter Ticktin, of the Ticktin Law Group of Deerfield Beach, Fla., with lawsuits claiming foreclosures were mishandled. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LYNNE SLADKY/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A4) CHARTS: The Housing Crisis From Another Side: Mortgage servicers got bigger and bigger as the housing market grew. But the current deluge of foreclosures has overwhelmed them and shown that many of them cut corners. That has led to a widespread halt of foreclosures and to investigations by state attorneys general.
 Large mortgage servicers: As of June 30th. (Source: Inside Mortgage Finance) (A4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); HOME PRICES (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (77%); HOUSING BUBBLE (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (74%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (72%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (72%); TESTIMONY (69%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (68%); MORTGAGE LOANS (57%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (51%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (95%); CITIGROUP INC (91%); OCWEN FINANCIAL CORP (72%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (61%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (95%); JPM (LSE) (95%); 8634 (TSE) (95%); C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%); OCN (NYSE) (72%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (95%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (95%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (95%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); NAICS531320 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE APPRAISERS (72%); NAICS522310 MORTGAGE & NONMORTGAGE LOAN BROKERS (72%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (72%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (72%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (72%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (72%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (61%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (61%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: SHEILA BAIR (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2010



362 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 901 words

HEADLINE: An Abrupt Halt to a Highflying Career in Finance

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED

 BODY:
By MICHAEL J. de la MERCED
On Tuesday night, Steven L. Rattner was surrounded by an assemblage of stars from the financial and media worlds at the Four Seasons restaurant in Manhattan. Chief executives and powerful politicians had gathered to celebrate his new book on the restructuring of the American auto industry.
Few if any of the guests sipping sauvignon blanc and snacking on crab cakes could have guessed that Mr. Rattner was near a settlement with the Securities and Exchange Commission over illegal kickbacks to New York State pension fund officials. 
In many ways, the high-wattage at the party traced the career arc of Mr. Rattner, 58, who has been a financial reporter, an esteemed media investment banker, a highflying private equity executive and a member of the Obama administration.
Many believed that Mr. Rattner had set his sights even higher - to become Treasury secretary in a Democratic administration. If he held such national ambitions, they have now likely been vanquished by a scandal involving corruption at the New York state pension fund.
The legal morass has ensnared Mr. Rattner for the last 18 months. A settlement with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including a multiyear ban from the securities industry and a multimillion dollar fine, over illegal kickbacks to officials at the New York State pension fund may be announced as soon as Thursday.
The scandal involved associates of Alan Hevesi, former New York State comptroller. Mr. Hevesi and others have pleaded guilty to charges that private equity executives paid for access to pension fund officials. The investigations, by the S.E.C. and Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo of New York, have tarnished others in the private equity industry, including the Carlyle Group and the firm Mr. Rattner helped found, the Quadrangle Group, which have settled charges.
They have also changed the way these firms solicit business from big pension funds, eliminating a sometimes shadowy world of informal middlemen that arrange meetings between potential investors and investment funds. The New York State and City pension funds now forbid the use of agents who connect officials with investment firms, though the practice continues in other parts of the country. And the impact of the so-called ''pay to play'' investigations has reached far beyond New York and Quadrangle. On Tuesday, the California Public Employees Retirement Systemcut ties to the Pacific Corporate Group, another firm that has settled charges with Mr. Cuomo.
But few buyout figures were as affected as Mr. Rattner, who while at Quadrangle helped distribute a film produced by the New York pension fund's chief investment officer. Mr. Rattner had long been the most prominent target of the investigations, which continued after he left Quadrangle last year to join the Obama administration.
Raised on Long Island, Mr. Rattner graduated from Brown University in 1974. He became a reporter at The New York Times in its Washington and London bureaus. He then left journalism to pursue banking, moving from Lehman Brothers to Morgan Stanley and then Lazard as an investment banker.
Along the way, he became known as a top-flight mergers and acquisitions expert who specialized in media companies, brokering deals on behalf of companies like Viacom and Comcast. Vanity Fair once described Mr. Rattner as ''the most talked about investment banker of his generation,'' a smooth negotiator whose advice won the confidences of moguls like the telecom entrepreneur Craig McCaw and Brian L. Roberts, the chief executive of Comcast. His parties at his homes on Fifth Avenue and Martha's Vineyard, which drew the likes of Charlie Rose and Charles Schumer, were often the buzz of the town.
He also rose as high as Lazard's deputy chief executive, though he clashed frequently with Felix G. Rohatyn, the firm's senior deal-maker.
But Mr. Rattner left in 2000 to pursue yet another career change, banding together with three other Lazard partners to form Quadrangle. While there, he pursued leveraged buyouts of media companies like the takeovers of Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer and most of the American titles of Dennis Publishing, including men's magazines like Maxim and Stuff. (Some of those investments have faltered; M.G.M. is close to filing a prepackaged bankruptcy that will wipe out its equity holders, including Quadrangle.)
Mr. Rattner had also sought to gain influence in the Democratic Party, giving millions of dollars to candidates like Hillary Rodham Clinton and Barack Obama. His appointment as the White House's car czar, in charge of its ambitious plan to reorganize General Motors and Chrysler, was in part the culmination of years of hosting fund-raisers and writing opinion articles on economic issues in major newspapers.
After assiduously working his way up the New York media and financial worlds, Mr. Rattner drew an elite crowd on Tuesday night. Among the guests at Tuesday's book party were Henry R. Kravis of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts, Millard S. Drexler of J. Crew and Tina Brown of The Daily Beast.
His closest friends include the co-hosts of his book party, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York City and Arthur Sulzberger Jr., the publisher of The New York Times, as well as Mr. Roberts of Comcast.
Peter Lattman contributed reporting.
Go to Related Article from The New York Times>>
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Starting out as a journalist, Steven Rattner later became a financier and was well connected in government circles. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CARLOS OSORIO/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B1)
 Alan G. Hevesi, left, with the political adviser Hank Morris in 2001. Mr. Hevesi pleaded guilty last week in a pension fraud. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRANCES M. ROBERTS) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRIBERY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (89%); PRIVATE EQUITY (89%); PENSION FUNDS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); JOURNALISM (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (75%); SCANDALS (75%); CORRUPTION (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (75%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (71%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (68%); GUILTY PLEAS (64%)

COMPANY: CARLYLE GROUP LP (56%); QUADRANGLE GROUP LLC (53%); CALIFORNIA PUBLIC EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM (51%); PACIFIC CORPORATE GROUP INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%)

TICKER: CG (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (56%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (51%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (51%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%)

PERSON: STEVEN RATTNER (79%); ANDREW CUOMO (55%); BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (64%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2010



363 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1266 words

HEADLINE: For Reid, No Shaking Tea Party Challenger

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY and JIM RUTENBERG; Adam Nagourney reported from Las Vegas, and Jim Rutenberg from New York.

 BODY:
LAS VEGAS -- Senator Harry Reid of Nevada first thought he could scrape his way to re-election by invoking his power as majority leader and reminding voters what that means for his home state. When that didn't seem to work, he thought he could pull out this election with a scorched-earth campaign aimed at his Republican opponent, Sharron Angle, a Tea Party candidate with a rich history of unorthodox statements and politically unpopular positions.
''Sharron Angle: ideas so extreme they are dangerous,'' an announcer says in a ubiquitous new Reid television advertisement that focuses on Ms. Angle's vote in the State Assembly against legislation requiring checks on volunteers working with schoolchildren. Former President Bill Clinton, appearing with Mr. Reid at a high school Tuesday night, said, ''For the future of Nevada, for the jobs you so desperately need, it would be unbelievably negligent to say, 'I know you're right, but I'm just too mad, I've got to vote for this woman.' '' 
But as two new polls this week showed the candidates effectively tied yet again, it appears increasingly likely that Mr. Reid's fortunes may ultimately turn on the weapon he has long boasted of: a sophisticated voter turnout operation that he has methodically built since President Obama ran in Nevada two years ago.
On the eve of the only debate of this contest, and as early voting begins on Saturday -- a two-week period in which 50 percent of Nevadans are expected to cast ballots -- Mr. Reid finds himself trapped in the race he has, in many ways, always feared. Ms. Angle, an opponent his campaign had viewed as the most flawed on the Republican bench, has not only held her own, but has become a national symbol of the Tea Party attempt to upend politics in Washington.
The Angle campaign reported this week that it had raised $14.3 million in the third quarter of this year, bringing her fund-raising total to about $17.8 million. Mr. Reid has not yet reported his take, but his aides made clear that despite extensive efforts, he would fall well short of Ms. Angle's haul. Going into the third quarter, he had raised about $19.2 million.
On top of the money contributed directly to Ms. Angle, independent groups supporting her spent at least $2.5 million between early July and early October, according to the media monitoring service CMAG. Groups supporting Mr. Reid spent about $3.2 million during the same period. What that all means is that Ms. Angle -- who Mr. Reid had once assumed would be at a significant financial disadvantage to him, given his fund-raising prowess as majority leader -- may have at the very least nearly erased his financial advantage.
Underscoring just how much this race has become a proxy for both sides nationally, records analyzed by CQ Moneyline show that 80 percent of the money donated to both campaigns has come from outside of Nevada, a near mirror image of the other major Senate races.
Mr. Reid has been advertising on local airwaves without stop since last November, and has trotted out a series of big-name endorsements from Republicans in recent weeks. Yet public polls continue to show that he has the support of fewer than 50 percent of the electorate. This reflects the fact that Nevada has one of the worst economies in the country and shows the price Mr. Reid has paid with this state's independent voters for being seen as the partisan majority leader and champion of Mr. Obama's policies.
Neither Mr. Reid nor Ms. Angle ''has been able to break out,'' said David F. Damore, a professor of political science at the University of Nevada. ''I think by now Reid had hoped to have some distance.''
For all the money gushing through the state, aides to both candidates described the central question of the race in similar terms: whether the intensity of Ms. Angle's supporters, and their dislike of Mr. Reid -- a statement from Ms. Angle's campaign boasting of the fund-raising take talked about the ''the hatred of Harry Reid'' -- would be enough to overcome the incumbent's get-out-the-vote operation
Campaigns frequently put too much faith in voter turnout operations, either to calm nervous supporters or boost their prospects with the media. But in a race this close -- and with an electorate this small -- turnout could very well prove critical, particularly with a field of a half-dozen other candidates and an option to vote for ''none of the above,'' which means that a candidate can win with less than 50 percent of the vote. In this case, there is also an official Tea Party candidate on the ballot.
''I'm very confident that we are running ahead,'' said Mr. Reid's pollster, Mark Mellman. ''It's a tough race, it's a competitive race and lots of things can happen between now and Election Day. But we've been meaningfully ahead, pretty consistently''
But Rob Jesmer, the executive director of the National Republican Senatorial Committee, said, ''I think if the election were today we'd win because Sharron has the advantage of voter intensity.''
Mr. Reid has a long history as a tough campaigner. His political strategist, Jim Margolis, signaling the weeks ahead, repeatedly used the words ''extreme'' and ''crazy'' to describe Ms. Angle. ''She has a rigid worldview, cloaked in a smile, that borders on crazy,'' he said. ''That's Sharron Angle.''
Ms. Angle, asked about Mr. Reid's campaign on Thursday after attending a private question-and-answer session -- nearly all of Ms. Angle's campaign events are closed to the press -- smiled and responded: ''The best that I could give you is that the message has changed from hope and change to fear and smear.''
Since Ms. Angle defeated a field of better-known mainstream candidates in the Republican primary, the two campaigns and outside groups have spent at least $15.5 million on television commercials, a huge amount given the cost of TV time in Nevada.
Mr. Reid has received support from the nation's largest unions as well as Nevada-based industries whose interests he has fiercely -- and sometimes to criticism -- advocated over the years: particularly mining and gambling. Harrah's, Newmont U.S.A. Ltd. mining and the Service Employees International Union, among others, have pumped millions into an outside group called Patriot Majority, in what has amounted to the largest independent effort on behalf of a Democrat in the nation.
The group has gone so far as to run a radio advertisement promoting the upstart Senate candidacy of Scott Ashjian, who has positioned himself as a spoiler to Ms. Angle -- the overwhelming favorite of local Tea Party activists -- by running on a party line he helped start called Tea Party of Nevada.
Ms. Angle has had help, too. The Crossroads GPS and American Crossroads sister groups -- started with aid from Karl Rove, the chief strategist for former President George W. Bush, and financed in part by former patrons of Mr. Bush from the oil and gas and financial industries -- have spent more than $2 million to topple Mr. Reid, according to CMAG. The Club for Growth and a newer group, Americans for New Leadership, have also come to Ms. Angle's aide.
Brad Coker, managing director of Mason-Dixon Polling, said Mr. Reid's biggest challenge has been to get voters to view this -- as Mr. Clinton said the other night -- as a choice between two candidates, rather than a judgment on Mr. Reid.
''My sense all along is at the end of the day this is a referendum on Reid,'' Mr. Coker said. ''No matter how kooky they try to portray Angle, I think at the end of the day, people, if they have to make a choice between the lesser of two evils, they'll vote against Harry Reid.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sharron Angle and Harry Reid will debate on Thursday.
 Opposing views on the candidates for Senate in Nevada were on display Tuesday in Las Vegas. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JULIE JACOBSON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHART: Nevada Senate Race: Polls show that Harry Reid, the Democratic incumbent, has been neck-and-neck with his Republican opponent, Sharron Angle, since the primary. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); FUNDRAISING (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); POLITICS (78%); CHILDREN (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (71%)

PERSON: HARRY REID (94%); BILL CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (91%) NEVADA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2010



364 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 469 words

HEADLINE: Foreclosures Spur Action From U.S. And States

BYLINE: By ANDREW MARTIN

 BODY:
As the nation's attorneys general announced a joint investigation into flawed paperwork filed to support home foreclosures, federal housing regulators urged lenders Wednesday to vet their foreclosure procedures and fix them. 
The regulatory body, the Federal Housing Finance Agency, made it clear that the foreclosure process should ''proceed without delay'' if no problems were found, even though some Democratic lawmakers have called for a nationwide moratorium.
''The country's housing finance system remains fragile, and I intend to maintain our focus on addressing this issue in a manner that is fair to delinquent households, but also fair to servicers, mortgage investors, neighborhoods and most of all, is in the best interest of taxpayers,'' Edward J. DeMarco, the agency's acting director, said.
The agency is the regulator for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the mortgage holding companies that were taken over by the government after they collapsed in the financial crisis. Big banks sell their mortgages to Fannie and Freddie and then service them.
In its guidance, the agency urged mortgage servicing companies to work with lawyers to ''take appropriate remedial actions'' where paperwork was not filled out properly. Those actions depend on the status of the foreclosure case and may involve filing a motion in court to substitute a properly prepared and executed document for the flawed one.
Some of the nation's largest home lenders are already heeding the agency's advice and have said that they would halt some, if not all, of their foreclosures while they review the paperwork.
On Wednesday, the nation's attorneys general vowed to do their own inquiry into whether mortgage servicers filed flawed paperwork to justify foreclosures. Attorneys general from all 50 states will participate, with state bank and mortgage regulators.
The inquiry will focus on signed affidavits that mortgage loan servicers have filed with the court without confirming their accuracy, a practice known as robo-signing. Some were signed without a notary public present, in violation of state law. Others were signed by employees who spend their day signing one affidavit after another, raising questions about whether they could possibly attest to knowing the facts claimed in each document.
At a news conference on Wednesday, Iowa Attorney General Tom Miller, who is leading the joint investigation, said the inquiry was not a ''silver bullet'' to keep delinquent homeowners in their homes. Rather, he said, ''this is a chance to right the law and get the process right.''
Previously, several attorneys general announced their own inquiries into the use of robo-signers. Ohio Attorney General Richard Cordray went beyond that last week. He sued MAC Mortgage, saying that it had filed fraudulent affidavits against Ohio homeowners.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (92%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (89%); NOTARIES (78%); LAWYERS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (74%); HOLDING COMPANIES (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (72%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (69%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (83%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (69%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (83%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (83%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (83%)

PERSON: RICHARD CORDRAY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2010



365 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 501 words

HEADLINE: Mets Turn to Boston In Search for a G.M.

BYLINE: By DAVID WALDSTEIN

 BODY:
Of the three executives the Mets have interviewed for their vacant general manager's position, two played key roles for the Red Sox during their recent World Series championships, and they received glowing recommendations Wednesday from Boston's general manager, Theo Epstein. 
In 2004, Josh Byrnes, who interviewed with the Mets on Wednesday, was the assistant general manager under Epstein.
Byrnes coordinated the advance scouting for the playoffs and presented the information to Manager Terry Francona and his coaching staff before each series. The Red Sox swept the Anaheim Angels in the division series; became the first baseball team to come back from a 3-0 deficit and win a series as they beat the Yankees in the American League Championship Series; then swept the St. Louis Cardinals in the World Series.
''That gave us a bit of an edge,'' Epstein said. ''That's not normally in the purview of the assistant general manager, but it demonstrates Josh's versatility and understanding of the game on many different levels.''
Three years later Byrnes had left to become the general manager of the Arizona Diamondbacks, so Epstein turned for the same task to another assistant, Allard Baird, who interviewed with the Mets on Monday. Again, the Red Sox swept the Angels, beat the Cleveland Indians in seven games in the A.L.C.S. and swept the Colorado Rockies in the World Series.
Byrnes worked in Boston from 2002 until he was hired by Arizona before the 2005 season.
''The thing that stands out with Josh is his tremendous intelligence,'' Epstein said. ''He understands the financial landscape of the game, the economics of the game; he understands the dynamic of the clubhouse, the relationships with the manager and the coaching staff, the minor leagues. He just gets it, and he understands the big picture as well as the details. Everything put together, it's a pretty compelling package.''
Epstein also endorsed Baird, whom the Red Sox hired after he was fired as the Kansas City Royals' general manager in 2006. He is the director of scouting.
''We put him in charge of minor league free agency, and he did an outstanding job coming up with Nick Green one year and Darnell McDonald the next year,'' Epstein said. ''Anything he touches, you know you are going to get incredible competence and thoroughness and a great evaluator's touch. He's been a central part of everything we've done since '06, including the '07 championship.''
The Mets will continue to interview candidates to replace Omar Minaya, who was fired Oct. 6. Sandy Alderson, the former Oakland Athletics general manager, will come in Thursday, and on Friday the Mets will interview Logan White, an assistant general manager for the Los Angeles Dodgers.
Jeff Wilpon, the chief operating officer, said on a conference call Wednesday that the Mets were interviewing candidates only for the general manager's job and that the new general manager would hire a manager. Wilpon said he hoped to name a general manager by the end of the World Series.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (93%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); DISMISSALS (78%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON RED SOX (93%); ANAHEIM ANGELS (83%); ST LOUIS CARDINALS (56%); NEW YORK YANKEES (56%); ARIZONA CARDINALS (56%); ARIZONA DIAMONDBACKS (55%); CALIFORNIA ANGELS (55%); CLEVELAND INDIANS (54%); COLORADO ROCKIES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (54%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (52%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (50%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); OHIO, USA (54%); MISSOURI, USA (52%); CALIFORNIA, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2010



366 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 234 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Import Prices Slip on Lower Petroleum Costs

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (Reuters) -- United States import prices fell 0.3 percent in September, as a drop in petroleum prices offset gains in food and other nonfuel goods, a Labor Department report showed Wednesday. 
Excluding petroleum, prices rose 0.3 percent after increasing 0.2 percent in August.
The September decline in overall import prices followed a 0.6 percent rise in August.
Analysts surveyed before the report had expected import prices to fall 0.2 percent in September.
Petroleum and fuel import prices both fell 3.1 percent in September in their first month-to-month declines since June.
In the 12 months through September, overall import prices rose 3.5 percent. That year-to-year rise has fallen from a high of 11.4 percent in January.
In recent months, the year-on-year rise in nonpetroleum import prices also has slowed. In the 12 months through September, they were up 2.9 percent.
However, a weakening dollar on expectations the Federal Reserve will ease monetary policy further could push the price of many imported goods higher in coming months.
Export prices rose 0.6 percent in September, much more than a consensus forecast for a 0.2 percent increase before the report. It was the second consecutive monthly increase.
Agricultural export prices led the way, rising 2.4 percent, while food, feed and beverage prices were up 2.2 percent.
Compared with September last year, export prices were up 5.0 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMPORT PRICES (94%); IMPORT TRADE (94%); PRICE INCREASES (93%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); US DOLLAR (73%); BEVERAGE PRICES (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); MONETARY POLICY (67%); PUBLIC POLICY (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2010



367 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: Business Event Is Canceled, And Fallout Is Immediate

BYLINE: By MANNY FERNANDEZ

 BODY:
The Global Sourcing Forum was known for many things. Controversy and intrigue were not among them.
The forum typically draws hundreds of corporate executives and foreign government officials from around the world to New York City each year for two days of speeches and panel discussions focused on outsourcing, the process in which a company or government agency contracts with an outside firm, often in a different country, to perform services once done in-house. Last year, some 1,000 people representing more than 25 countries attended the event at the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center. This year, the forum was to be held on Wednesday and Thursday at the Marriott Marquis in Times Square.
But late last week and throughout the weekend, word had spread that the Global Sourcing Forum had been abruptly canceled. By Wednesday morning, the event's Web site -- globalsourcingforum.com -- was a blank page with two green bars across the top. David Etzler, the chief executive of OutsourceWorld, the conference company that produces the forum, had told some attendees that the firm was seeking bankruptcy protection. 
The forum's cancellation illustrated the logistical, financial and legal fallout that happens when a long-planned global business conference is suddenly shut down in New York City.
Contingents from across the country and the globe -- Bangladesh, China, Poland, Uruguay -- had already arrived in New York and spent thousands of dollars in registration fees, sponsorships and hotel costs. Sleek brochures had been designed. Former and current executives of major corporations and institutions were scheduled to speak or sit on panels, including those from Johnson & Johnson, Viacom, Amazon.com and the World Bank. Hotel rooms and banquet space had been booked.
Officials from Ghana, seeking to create public-private partnerships out of the networking they would do at the forum, spent $20,000 from a project, financed by the World Bank, to be a co-sponsor of the event. Bangladesh spent more than $100,000 on sponsorship, airfare and hotel costs for a large delegation.
''The big question that we have is, there's a lot of public funds tied up in this,'' said Kevin Parikh, a panel moderator and the global chief executive of Avasant, a management consulting firm that represents the government of Ghana. ''OutsourceWorld obviously had the sponsorship money of these organizations leading up to the conference. Where did that money go? The money was to be used for the event, or it should have been returned.''
The sudden cancellation left officials from countries like Poland moving quickly to host receptions and other events.
Frank Casale, the chief executive of the Outsourcing Institute, a professional association whose members were expecting to attend the forum, also hastily organized a free ad-hoc conference, to give stranded participants a place to meet and talk about the industry.
On Wednesday morning, away from the bustle of Times Square, about 60 people sat at a long conference table at a law office on Park Avenue. ''There were a couple hundred people in town,'' Mr. Casale said as the program was about to begin at Kelley Drye & Warren L.L.P. ''We could only fit 60 in this room. It was first come first served.''
A Marriott Marquis spokeswoman said the Global Sourcing Forum was canceled ''because the client could not meet the terms of the contract,'' though she would not elaborate.
Mr. Etzler declined to comment and referred questions to his lawyer.
OutsourceWorld's bankruptcy lawyer, Philip J. Landau, said the company would seek bankruptcy protection and would be liquidated. Mr. Landau said several major sponsors of the event who had committed several hundred thousand dollars backed out at the last minute. ''OutsourceWorld couldn't then make the payment to the Marriott,'' he said. ''It's in essence a domino effect.''
Mr. Landau, who said he could not name those sponsors who failed to pay, said none of the sponsorship money went to Mr. Etzler personally. ''All of the money went into the event,'' said Mr. Landau, who added that Mr. Etzler had not taken a salary in weeks, if not months, and had been ''very distraught'' over the ordeal.
Mr. Etzler, 39, lives in Boca Raton, Fla., and is a well-known figure in the global outsourcing industry. He called himself an ''eco-enthusiast'' in The Sun-Sentinel in Florida, and had organized a local green-living fair.
Several attendees criticized Mr. Etzler for failing to notify participants traveling from around the world that the event had been called off and accused him of mismanaging OutsourceWorld. Mr. Landau said Mr. Etzler had officially canceled the event last Thursday evening and later posted a statement to that effect on the Web site before the site was taken down, in addition to sending an e-mail to some attendees.
He said those who spent money on registration and sponsorship costs would be able to submit claims for reimbursement through liquidation proceedings.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Would-be participants of a forum in Times Square instead went on Wednesday to a law office for a hastily organized conference. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); SPONSORSHIP (89%); OUTSOURCING (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (87%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (66%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (63%); CONSULTING SERVICES (62%); AIR FARES (61%)

COMPANY: JOHNSON & JOHNSON (66%); VIACOM INC (53%); AMAZON.COM INC (53%)

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (66%); VIA (NASDAQ) (53%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (66%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (53%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (53%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (53%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); GHANA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2010



368 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1321 words

HEADLINE: Mastering the Language Game

BYLINE: By KAREN CROUSE

 BODY:
PRATTVILLE, Ala. -- While people around her ate lunch, Na Yeon Choi sat digesting English vocabulary. In the clubhouse at last week's Navistar L.P.G.A. Classic, Choi was bent over a workbook with her pen poised, pondering how to use the word stereotype in a sentence.
More than one public perception was challenged at the sight of Choi, the world's sixth-ranked women's golfer, inside on an afternoon tailor-made for golf practicing her English through a cross-cultural L.P.G.A. program.
Choi, 22, was a tour rookie in 2008 when the L.P.G.A. proposed penalties and suspensions for players unable to communicate in English, a tin-eared turn at assimilation that was swiftly abandoned after a public outcry. 
A tour at the fore of globalization was made to look parochial, a wobble that soon contributed to the resignation of L.P.G.A. Commissioner Carolyn Bivens. The controversy trained a spotlight on the South Koreans -- for their dominance on tour and their reluctance to speak English in public.
Languages are like greens; each has nuances, and boldness sometimes results in embarrassment. The South Korean players became more shy after a profile of Kyeong Bae in a Canadian newspaper this summer in which she referred to the cartoon character SpongeBob Square Pants as ''Spongie Bob.''
Choi shuddered in sympathy. Like many of the non-Americans on the tour, she would rather not speak at all if she cannot speak perfect English.
Choi relies on her caddie to help her read the way a putt breaks. For help with the subtleties of English she turned to Martin George, whose Language Training Center, based in Indianapolis, entered into a partnership with the L.P.G.A. this year.
George, the company president, and another instructor, Erica Tomasik, travel with the tour, tutoring players one on one in clubhouses or hotel lobbies or through video conferences.
Commissioner Michael Whan likened the program, which was in place when he started in January, to one he participated in as an employee of Procter & Gamble two decades ago when it was extending its reach to the Far East.
''This may feel like an L.P.G.A. thing, but it's really a business thing,'' Whan said, adding: ''I don't really consider it a language program. I consider it a cross-cultural program.''
He said players learn that signing autographs is not the same everywhere. Chitchat matters more to fans in Toledo; they want only the signature in Thailand, Whan said, adding, ''It's good for business for the players to recognize things like that.''
At his first tournament, in March in Carlsbad, Calif., George said, he was unsure what kind of reception he would receive.
''I was told, 'You may have no students,' '' he recalled with a chuckle.
George ended up working with three golfers. Through word of mouth, the number of players using the service has grown to more than two dozen, including one American, Vicky Hurst, who is studying Korean, her mother's native language.
One of George's students, In-Kyung Kim, recently finished Andre Agassi's autobiography, ''Open,'' which she read at George's suggestion.
''It was really well written,'' said Kim, who met with George last week after the pro-am.
As Kim was speaking, one of her amateur partners asked if she would autograph his hat. They exchanged small talk for a minute as George looked on. The ability of the golfers to connect with their playing partners in the lucrative pro-ams is considered vital for the tour's bottom line, and yet George e-mailed later to say, ''Most of the players don't know how important that type of engagement is to their careers.''
Unlike the tour's traveling day care center, the mobile language lab does not have a sponsor to absorb the costs. The players pay a discounted rate of $50 an hour for in-person training, or $40 an hour via Skype.
''When players are investing their own resources, they tend to take it more serious,'' said Sean Pyun, the L.P.G.A. manager for international development and member services, adding, ''It's really amazing how quickly the program has evolved in a short time.''
Other languages may be added next year. The Americans Morgan Pressel and Paula Creamer have expressed a desire to hone their Spanish. Beatriz Recari, a rookie from Spain, is interested in Mandarin but is immersed in Japanese.
As Recari conversed in Japanese for an hour last week with Tomasik, the subject turned to the N.F.L. Recari's favorite team, she said, is the Miami Dolphins, though she acknowledged they had not played well in a loss to the New England Patriots a few days earlier. As they talked, Tomasik introduced tenses and words and used them in sentences that Recari repeated.
Recari, who is bubbly in any language, learned English at the age of 5 and also speaks French and Norwegian in addition to Spanish.
''My first year on tour, in Europe, I studied economics,'' she said. ''But then I chose golf over schooling, and I was missing a lot that student part of me. This nurtures me as a person, and it helps me develop my left brain like when I was studying economics.''
Recari also learned that the proper way to respond in Japanese when presented with a gift is to apologize for the giver's considerable effort. Ai Miyazato, who is from Japan, has been ranked No. 1 for eight consecutive weeks in a year with much jockeying to fill the void at the top created by the abrupt retirement of Lorena Ochoa.
In one-on-one conversations, Miyazato, 25, speaks English without a trace of self-consciousness, repeatedly addressing the other person by name to build rapport. She began working with George not so much to build her vocabulary but her confidence.
When asked at weekly tour interview sessions how it feels to be No. 1, Miyazato said that she wished to convey so much more -- satisfaction, anxiety, excitement -- but that under the spotlight, words, tenses and sentence structure often eluded her.
At the Navistar L.P.G.A. Classic, as elsewhere, she started a pretournament interview speaking English and ended it with her manager, Takumi Zaoya, translating her answers from Japanese to English.
''I feel like my English is still not enough,'' a chagrined Miyazato said. ''I want the people to get to know me a little, but I get nervous.''
News conferences, in which the players sit onstage and speak into a microphone, are daunting.
''I like this table for talking better than the media center,'' Choi said in the clubhouse, with a grand sweep of her hand.
In addition to carrying a spiral notebook and workbook, she keeps transcripts of some news conferences. George has encouraged her not to refer to them, but Choi, in her small, neat printing, has made corrections.
One answer in particular still gnaws at her. At the 2009 Samsung World Championship in San Diego, Choi posted her first L.P.G.A. victory. But that is not what sticks in her mind.
Asked to describe her 63 in the third round, the lowest score of her career, Choi said, ''I feel almost perfect everything.'' Afterward, she said, she fled to the restroom in embarrassment.
Last week, she pointed to the page where she had written what she meant to say: ''I feel everything was perfect.''
''I did wrong answer,'' she said. ''I disappointed myself.''
Choi has expressed a desire to continue her lessons by video conference during the off-season. The impression she leaves is that she will not stop until her English is flawless.
Ambition was another of her vocabulary words. Using it in a sentence, Choi wrote, ''My ambition is to be the best person I can be.''

CORRECTION-DATE: October 15, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Thursday about language training for L.P.G.A. players, using information from the Language Training Center in Indianapolis, misstated the cost of the center's lessons. Players pay a discounted rate of $50 an hour for an in-person lesson, not $40. (The center offers discounted lessons to players via Skype for $40 an hour.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Martin George, left, teaching the subtleties of English to the golfer Na On Min of South Korea. George's Language Training Center also teaches Japanese, bottom. (B13)
 The L.P.G.A. player Beatriz Recari of Spain, left, was tutored in Japanese by Erica Tomasik of the Language Training Center. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JED JACOBSOHN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); GOLF (89%); ATHLETES (76%); CELEBRITIES (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (75%); LANGUAGE SCHOOLS (73%); GLOBALIZATION (70%); TOURNAMENTS (70%)

COMPANY: PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (52%)

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (52%); PG (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (52%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (52%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (69%) ALABAMA, USA (90%); INDIANA, USA (75%); CALIFORNIA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (90%); THAILAND (50%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2010



369 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 759 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
9 P.M. (CBS) CSI: CRIME SCENE INVESTIGATION Sqweegel (Daniel Browning Smith) -- a serial killer based on a character in ''Dark Prophecy,'' the second novel from Anthony E. Zuiker, the creator of ''CSI'' -- menaces Las Vegas. Ann-Margret (above, with Mr. Smith) guest stars as a legendary figure on the Las Vegas Strip; the city's mayor, Oscar B. Goodman, plays himself. 
8 P.M. (NBC) COMMUNITY Dean Pelton (Jim Rash) decides that Greendale Community College must become competitive and enlists the study group to clean and refurbish the college's flight simulator. But then a button is pushed, sending everyone into ''outer space.'' In a live episode of ''30 Rock,'' at 8:30, Liz (Tina Fey) becomes agitated when no one seems to remember that it's her 40th birthday, and Tracy (Tracy Morgan) annoys Jenna (Jane Krakowski) by trying to get her to break character during the show. Meanwhile Jack (Alec Baldwin) struggles with his promise to give up drinking while Avery (Elizabeth Banks) is pregnant. In ''The Office,'' at 9, Michael (Steve Carell) thinks he has herpes and contacts all his former girlfriends, played by Amy Ryan, Melora Hardin, Amy Pietz, Linda Purl and Nancy Carell, Mr. Carell's real-life wife. And in ''Outsourced,'' at 9:30, Rajiv (Rizwan Manji) fakes an Indian holiday to get Todd (Ben Rappaport) out of the office before his future father-in-law visits.
8 P.M. (HBO) MONICA & DAVID (2009) In this year's winner of the best documentary feature award at the Tribeca Film Festival, Alexandra Codina tells the story of her cousin Monica and her new husband, both adults with Down syndrome.
9 P.M. (Bloomberg) BLOOMBERG GAME CHANGERS This documentary series explores the rise of influential leaders in technology, finance, politics and culture through archival videos, photographs and interviews with people who encountered them at the high points of their careers. Steven P. Jobs, above, a founder of Apple and its current chief executive, is the subject of this episode, which includes Mr. Jobs's start-up years in the family garage, his liver transplant and the release of the iPad. It also features his early success at and subsequent exile from Apple, his failure at NeXT, his redemption at Pixar and his triumphant return to the company he helped create. Those interviewed include Steve Wozniak, a founder of Apple; John Sculley, a former Apple chief executive; and Jeffrey Katzenberg, chief executive of DreamWorks Animation.
9 P.M. (Fox Business Network) STOSSELJohn Stossel and his panel look at ''economic freedom'' as a main factor in the relative
per capita wealth of the United States, and consider how regulation, labor markets and the size of government affect a country's prosperity or poverty. Guests include Sallie James, a policy analyst with the Cato Institute's Center for Trade Policy Studies; Marc Lamont Hill, an associate professor of education and anthropology at Teachers College, Columbia University; and William Beach, director of the Heritage Foundation's Center for Data Analysis.
9 P.M. (Lifetime) PROJECT RUNWAY The designers are rewarded for their efforts with an evening of pampering in a penthouse suite. Later a surprise guest gives the contestants their final assignment before Fashion Week. ''On the Road With Austin & Santino,'' at 10:30, travels to Christiansburg, Va., with Austin Scarlett and Santino Rice, who will create an outfit for a police officer celebrating her fifth wedding anniversary.
9 P.M. (Bravo) THE REAL HOUSEWIVES OF D.C. In Part 1 of a reunion show, the women, shepherded by Andy Cohen, dish on the season's high and low points and take viewer questions. Six new ladies who lunch and feud are introduced in the premiere of ''The Real Housewives of Beverly Hills,'' at 10, before joining Mr. Cohen on ''Watch What Happens: Live,'' at 11.
10 P.M. (MTV) JERSEY SHORE Mike, a k a the Situation, burns his bridges and disappoints Pauly when Mike's behavior gets the roommates kicked out of a club.
10 P.M. (Food Network) FOOD FEUDS The Iron Chef Michael Symon crosses the country to put an end to culinary rivalries by deciding once and for all whose dish is superior. His first stop: Philadelphia, where Villa di Roma and Ralph's both claim to have the best meatballs and pizza. At 10:30 he takes on the city's cheese steaks then heads north for New York cheesecake.
10 P.M. (FX) IT'S ALWAYS SUNNY IN PHILADELPHIA When a heat wave strikes the city, Mac (Rob McElhenney) and Charlie (Charlie Day) decide to fix up an abandoned pool after they are barred from joining a swim club. KATHRYN SHATTUCK

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY SONJA FLEMMING/CBS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOCUMENTARY FILMS (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); EXECUTIVES (84%); MURDER (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); HOMICIDE (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (77%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (76%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (75%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (73%); MAYORS (71%); HERPES INFECTIONS (70%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); COMPUTER SIMULATION (69%); OUTSOURCING (69%); ANIMATION (67%); FILM (67%); ANIMATED FILMS (67%); AWARDS & PRIZES (67%); DOWN SYNDROME (65%); TRANSPLANT SURGERY (50%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%); DREAMWORKS ANIMATION SKG INC (50%)

TICKER: DWA (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (50%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (50%)

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (89%); STEVE CARELL (79%); TINA FEY (67%); ALEC BALDWIN (56%); JEFFREY KATZENBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (92%) NEVADA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2010



370 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
A CASUALTY OF BOTH THE WAR
And the Spanish Economy
Like many soldiers in the Spanish Army, John Felipe Romero Meneses was an immigrant who joined up after Spain opened its armed forces to noncitizens. But he had also left a turbulent country, Colombia, to seek a better life in Spain and wound up joining the army because he could not find a job. PAGE A14
CANADA DECLARES BPA TOXIC 
The government of Canada formally declared bisphenol A, a chemical widely used to create clear, hard plastics, as well as food can liners, to be a toxic substance. The compound, commonly known as BPA, has been shown to disrupt the hormone systems of animals and is under review in the United States and Europe. PAGE A10
National
RESIGNATION IS NOT EXPECTED
To Slow School Change
With Michelle Rhee's decision to resign as the Washington schools chancellor, the movement to shake up the nation's public schools is losing perhaps its most visible leader. But experts say her departure is unlikely to slow efforts to overhaul the school system. PAGE A19
HITTING THE TRAIL AGAIN
Nine months after her staggering loss in the special election for Edward M. Kennedy's Senate seat, which cost Democrats a filibuster-proof majority and re-energized the Republican Party, Martha Coakley is pursuing a more modest goal: holding on to her current job as state attorney general. PAGE A26
FIRST LADY CAMPAIGNS
Michelle Obama burst back onto the campaign trail with a highly personal, soft-sell appeal intended to prod Democratic voters. PAGE A23
New York
A CANDIDATE'S DIFFICULTY
In Drawing Women
With Election Day about three weeks away, Linda E. McMahon, the Republican nominee for Senate and a former World Wrestling Entertainment executive, faces this major obstacle in her quest for the seat: Many female voters are turned off by her candidacy. PAGE A33
JURY IN TERRORISM TRIAL
Newly released questionnaires that were filled out by jurors in the first civilian trial of a former detainee at the military prison at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, offer a glimpse at the backgrounds and views of the 12 people who have been asked to decide the guilt or innocence of the former detainee, Ahmed Khalfan Ghailani. PAGE A33
Business
U.S. TO ALLOW INSURERS
To Charge More for Ill Youth
The Obama administration, aiming to encourage health insurance companies to offer child-only policies, said that they could charge higher premiums for coverage of children with serious medical problems, if state law allowed it. PAGE B1
BANK DROPS LOAN SYSTEMS
As the uproar over questionable conduct by mortgage lenders intensified, JPMorgan Chase & Company distanced itself from a controversial, industry-owned registration system that oversees millions of home loans, becoming the first big lender to acknowledge doing so. PAGE B1
FIGHT OVER FOX CONTRACT
Cablevision's three million customers in the New York metropolitan area may lose access to Fox programming if the cable company cannot soon come to new terms with the News Corporation, the owner of Fox Broadcasting. PAGE B4
Arts
IN MONACO, ARTS BECOME
The Latest Luxuries
A new opera and a couple of new exhibitions in spanking new museums have opened in Monaco recent days, evidence of its latest bid for cultural prestige. Michael Kimmelman, Abroad. PAGE C1
Sports
FROM 10,000 METERS
To 26.2 Miles in New York
Shalane Flanagan, the second woman from the United States to win an Olympic medal in the 10,000 meters, will make her marathon debut on Nov. 7 in New York City. It is the first in a series of steps she hopes will help prepare her to qualify for the 2012 Olympic Games. PAGE B13
A RETURN TO HEALTH AND FORM
The Princeton running back Jordan Culbreath missed the final eight games of the 2009 season after receiving a diagnosis of aplastic anemia, a rare disease that makes his body unable to control bleeding, which makes any football hit potentially life-threatening. He is back on the field this season and has to have regular platelet infusions to continue playing. PAGE B12
Home
MOSAICS THAT COMMENT
On Current Events
Sybil Sage, a veteran television comedy writer for ''The Mary Tyler Moore Show,'' ''Maude'' and ''Alice'' had been making objects with pique assiette -- a French mosaic technique using broken plates -- for years as a hobby, before she turned the mosaics into a business. She now creates funeral urns covered with images of the faces of politicians who have strayed from their marriages. PAGE D1
Thursday Styles
IN A PAGE SIX REIGN,
Stars and Scars
Richard Johnson announced his departure last week from Page Six, the New York Post gossip column, after almost 25 years at its helm, and helped it become so influential that one of his items could enhance or cripple the reputation of its subject. PAGE E1
OP-ED
Nicholas D. Kristof PAGE A39

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); BISPHENOL A (90%); ARMIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (83%); IMMIGRATION (79%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); RESIGNATIONS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); CHILDREN (73%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (72%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (72%); TERRORISM (71%); POLITICS (71%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (71%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (69%); VOTERS & VOTING (69%); JURY TRIALS (67%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (67%); FILIBUSTER (66%); INSURANCE (64%); HEALTH INSURANCE (64%); MORTGAGE BANKING (62%); PRISONS (61%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (80%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (80%); JPM (LSE) (80%); 8634 (TSE) (80%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (80%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (80%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (80%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (80%)

PERSON: MICHELLE OBAMA (72%); TED KENNEDY (55%); BARACK OBAMA (53%); MARTHA COAKLEY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) CANADA (94%); SPAIN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); CUBA (67%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2010



371 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; SKIN DEEP; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 985 words

HEADLINE: Every Finger Tells a Story

BYLINE: By KAYLEEN SCHAEFER

 BODY:
THREE years ago, Sharmadean Reid, a London nail salon owner, was watching the American Music Awards when she saw Beyonce Knowles with a manicure that made her nails look as if they'd been plated with gold. ''I paused the television,'' she said. ''I was like, 'What is on her nails?' Gimme now.''
What was on them was Minx, a flexible polymer film that shrink-wraps to the nail and can be removed with acetone. Ms. Reid, whose Wah Nails has a branch in Topshop in Oxford Circus, a busy shopping area in central London, wasn't the only manicurist who recognized immediately that such a technique was as revolutionary as the quick-dry topcoat once was.
''I've been doing nails for 15 years, but it felt like overnight success,'' said Lisa Logan, Ms. Knowles's manicurist in New York, who applied Minx for the ''Single Ladies'' music video. ''I'm recognized because I put Minx on Beyonce.'' 
Now Minx has gone mainstream. Since arriving on the market in 2008, it's been added to the menu of over 3,000 salons, from upscale chains like Bliss to funkier independent shops like Valley in NoLIta. At Bliss, it's the second most popular nail service, after the more traditional hot cream manicure. ''Our clients definitely come in looking for Minx,'' said Gillian Christian, a spokeswoman for Bliss.
Minx, which costs about $55 at most places and is applied with pressure and heat, requires no drying time and won't chip or smudge when you fumble your keys as you leave the nail salon. Think of it as a decal for the fingertips that resembles pop art, but shines like polish.
It's a look that can't come from a bottle -- there are prints of silver lightning bolts or leopard spots or personalized designs, as when the singer Katy Perry put the face of her fiance, the actor Russell Brand, on her nails for the most recent MTV Video Music Awards. Ms. Knowles has been seen with President Obama's head on hers (and has worn that of her husband, Jay-Z, in private, according to Ms. Logan). The manicure lasts about as long as one done with liquid color, anywhere from four to eight days.
In June, in partnership with Sephora and the polish brand OPI, Minx also lent its technology to an at-home D.I.Y. kit, which sells at Sephora for $15. ''We'd been seeing Minx buzz build for almost two years and felt it was the right time to give our client the chance to try it for herself,'' said Michael McGeever, senior vice president and general manager of Sephora Originals.
Minx isn't the only nail film. Its salon-only competitors include the brands Blixz and SheeKee. And in September, Urban Outfitters began selling press-on vinyl coverings called Nail Fraud for $12 a set; Nail Fraud will also be available at Nordstrom in November. Wendy Friedland, 46, a graphic artist in TriBeCa, says she used to take her 8-year-old daughter to the nail salon for manicures, but the drying time was difficult. ''She tells me, 'It's too boring,' '' Ms. Friedland said. So now the two stick on Nail Fraud prints at home.
Still, thanks to the unofficial celebrity endorsements of Victoria Beckham, Rihanna and Blake Lively, among others, Minx is now to nail wraps what Heinz is to ketchup. ''All of the rock stars get Minx manicures,'' said Jill Stern, the creator of Nail Fraud. ''Doesn't everyone want to be a rock star?''
Minx has not advertised in consumer publications; anyone who's gotten brilliant gold or camouflage nails is a walking billboard for the company. TracyLee Percival, the first manicurist in Manhattan to apply Minx, said she had a client who sent a text message within two hours of getting the treatment to share all the compliments she had received. ''She was getting mauled,'' Ms. Percival said. ''While she was in Trader Joe's, while she was hailing a cab, everyone wanted to know what was on her nails.''
Women who've had the manicure proudly say that they were ''Minxed.'' For a brunch this summer, Caroline A. Rice, 33, an actress who lives in Midtown, hired a manicurist and invited friends over for mimosas and Minx. ''The rest of our friends were very jealous,'' Ms. Rice said. ''We went back to work on Monday and people were like, 'What is that?' ''
It was about five years ago that women began to see their pale pink or French-manicured nails as missed opportunities for accessorizing, and pushed aside subtle shades in favor of jade, black and gray. Minx went further, with the slogan that it ''extends fashion to your fingertips.''
From the beginning, Minx's founders, Dawn Lynch-Goodwin and Janice Jordan, were careful to position their product as high end: a canny way of distinguishing it from the gritty, neon-inflected, clashing nail art that was popular in the 1990s and made one's fingertips look as if they were cloaked in Color Me Badd's outfits. Back then, Ms. Percival recalled, she was airbrushing every single day. ''There wasn't a client who didn't leave my chair without something,'' she said, ''but then for the longest time, nail art wasn't as prominent.''
Ms. Lynch-Goodwin, a former nail salon owner, explained why she helped create Minx: ''We wanted to be able to link nail art with fashion. You wear a different handbag and it changes your look. Now you've got the opportunity to match the outfit with your nails. It's not just painting the nails. It's completing the look.''
To that end, Minx has done manicures for many runway shows, creating zebra and Dalmatian designs for Alice + Olivia in New York and, most recently, a gold-dipped leather look for Alexander McQueen in Paris.
Presuming you don't apply Minx every week, it can be an affordable way to add flair during a shaky economy (though not as cheap as lipstick).
''It's a recession-proof type of accessorizing,'' said Nina Werman, who owns Valley with her sister Julia, adding that nail art is the fastest-growing part of their business. ''It's a way to make a statement about your style without having to plunk down a huge amount of money.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THERE'S AN APPLICATION: Minx's adhesive nail designs are shiny, and come in patterns. Sephora sells an at-home version. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
TINY CANVASES: Minx nail film has made appearances on the runway at fashion shows like Alexander McQueen, top left, and Alice + Olivia, above. Katy Perry, top right, sported nails depicting her fiance, the actor Russell Brand. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PHILIPPE ARDOUIN
KIMMIE KYEES
KRISTEN ROBERTSON
 KIRSTEN LUCE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (89%); MUSIC (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); NAIL SALONS (89%); POP & ROCK (78%); VIDEO INDUSTRY (77%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (73%); EXECUTIVES (60%)

PERSON: BEYONCE KNOWLES (90%); JAY-Z (58%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%) NEW YORK, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2010



372 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 819 words

HEADLINE: Would You Run?

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
Mark Kirk has had a brilliant career. He graduated from Cornell, obtained a master's degree from the London School of Economics and a law degree from Georgetown. He worked at the State Department, the World Bank and the law firm of Baker & McKenzie before becoming counsel to the House committee on foreign affairs. He has served for the past decade as a congressman from the northern suburbs of Chicago.
In 1989, Kirk was commissioned as an intelligence officer in the Naval Reserve and now holds the rank of commander. The internal fitness reports on his performance are eye-popping. ''Head and shoulders above any other Intelligence Officer I have ever met,'' wrote one of his superiors. ''A true team leader ... Definite command potential. A natural and charismatic leader. A superlative speaker and briefer.'' 
''Outstanding Naval Officer,'' gushed another. ''Outstanding mentor ... Unmatched managerial and planning skills ... Set the standard for tactical intelligence.''
In Congress, according to a Chicago Tribune editorial, ''Kirk has been an extraordinarily effective representative of the independent-minded 10th Congressional District.'' He has become the House's leading moderate Republican -- fiscally conservative and socially centrist. He has a 55 rating out of 100 from Americans for Democratic Action, a liberal group, and a 72 rating from the American Conservative Union.
In the House, he has generally sided with conservatives on budget issues. He's been a vociferous critic of sugar subsidies and offered amendments that offended the Old Bull appropriators.
On other issues, he's often broken with the Republican leadership. He co-sponsored hate-crimes legislation with John Conyers, a Democrat. He supports abortion rights and stem cell research. He voted to extend health insurance to children.
He is interesting to interview because he still acts like an intelligence officer in search of data. Everybody talks about the deficits, but Kirk went into the bowels of the Treasury Department to interview the civil servants who actually do the borrowing to understand how a fiscal crisis might start. When the stimulus bill was released, Kirk pulled an all-nighter to read it and emerged as an early critic of the way it was structured.
On the campaign trail, he is a tad didactic. His events feature minilectures on everything from the sociology of modern Pakistan to breakthroughs in diabetes research.
If this were a fairy tale, it would be a simple story of a good man committing himself to public service and doing extraordinarily well at it. But this is reality. Nobody who walks into the valley of our political system emerges unscathed.
Today's political environment encourages narcissism and inflames insecurity. Pols must continually brag about themselves, and Kirk has succumbed. Even with his record, he's embellished his achievements. He claimed a military award went to him when it really went to the unit he led. He claimed his plane was shot at over Iraq when it wasn't. He claimed he was a teacher when he was an assistant at the school.
To win close races, candidates have to send and receive volleys of negative ads. Kirk is now tied in the race for United States senator in Illinois. His opponent, Alexi Giannoulias, is running a barrage of commercials hitting Kirk for his embellishments. Kirk is running a barrage slamming Giannoulias for overseeing the collapse of his family bank and for participating in a series of loans to organized crime. The mudslinging has dominated coverage of the campaign.
Finally, people who run for public office put themselves in a position in which everybody is inclined to believe the worst about them. The things that are ripe for ridicule become famous. The accomplishments fade from view. The cynics of the world, which includes almost everybody when it comes to politics, write you off as a sleazeball because it feels so good and superior to do so.
Now it is common for people in Illinois to say that both Kirk and Giannoulias deserve to lose. The race has been nicknamed the liar-liar campaign. So this is not a fairy tale about a good man going into public service. It is a reality tale about why most serious people don't want to go into politics at all.
The system will inflame your weaknesses (Kirk's mistakes were serious and he has apologized for them). Then the bad will come to define you, and the good you've achieved will be forgotten.
Few people try to weigh the good against the bad and reach some measured judgment. Instead, as David Frum once observed, they regard candidates the way adolescents regard parents: if they are not perfect then they must be irredeemable.
The reality is, Kirk has led a life that is extremely impressive in most respects. The oddest thing about him is that he's willing to go through this process. And the larger question is: In the years ahead, how many other talented people will be willing to do it, too?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW SCHOOLS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); NAVIES (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); LAWYERS (74%); CRIMINAL LAW (73%); POLITICS (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (70%); SOCIOLOGY (70%); LIBERALISM (70%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (70%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (64%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (63%); HATE CRIME (51%); ABORTION (50%); DIABETES (50%)

COMPANY: LAW FIRM OF BAKER & DANIELS LLP (84%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN CONSERVATIVE UNION (54%); AMERICANS FOR DEMOCRATIC ACTION (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%)

PERSON: MARK STEVEN KIRK (90%); JOHN CONYERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%) ILLINOIS, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (92%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2010



373 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: The Foreclosure Crises

 BODY:
Attorneys general in all 50 states have pledged a coordinated investigation into chaotic foreclosure practices by some of the nation's largest banks. The Department of Justice is also looking into what happened, while some lawmakers are now calling for a nationwide moratorium on all foreclosures until the legal questions are settled. The Obama administration is insisting such a broad delay would hurt the economy.
There is plenty to worry about. But amid all this roiling, neither Congress nor the administration has found a way to address an even more fundamental problem: What government and banks need to do to finally stanch the flood of foreclosures wreaking havoc on the lives of millions of Americans and threatening the recovery. 
According to the latest figures, 4.2 million loans are now in or near foreclosure. An estimated 3.5 million homes will be lost by the end of 2012, on top of 6.2 million already lost. Yet the administration's main antiforeclosure effort has modified fewer than 500,000 loans in about 18 months.
Judges and investigators need to be unflinching in their inquiries into the paperwork debacle and must hold the banks fully accountable. What we've already learned is chilling -- and suggests that bankers have learned little since the 2008 implosion and taxpayer bailout.
Major banks -- including Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase and Ally Bank, which is owned by GMAC -- have suspended foreclosures after admitting they had submitted tens of thousands of affidavits to the courts, attesting to facts about the defaulted loans that had not been verified by the bank employees signing the documents.
The Times's Eric Dash and Nelson D. Schwartz reported in Thursday's paper that in their rush to process foreclosures, banks hired inexperienced workers (''Burger King kids'' as one former banker derided them) who barely knew what a mortgage was.
The problems may go far deeper. The banks' procedures for keeping track of mortgages may also be seriously flawed. If there are problems in establishing a chain of title, it could -- again -- call into question the value of mortgage-backed securities. That would mean litigation, which would harm bank profits, and in a worst case, risk another economywide disruption.
As important, and dismaying, as all this is, it must not obscure the underlying problem: potentially millions of foreclosures that could and should be avoided.
A mandated, national moratorium may be unavoidable if banks resume a rush to foreclosure before all the legal issues are resolved. So far, there is no sign of that. A moratorium won't address the fundamental problem that banks have not competently and aggressively pursued ways to keep more financially viable Americans in their homes.
The White House may well be right that a moratorium would further rattle investors. But the economy is not going to rebound until the housing mess is resolved. What is needed, urgently, are laws and policies to give homeowners a better shot at reworking their loans so they can keep making payments and avoid foreclosure.
Throughout this crisis, the Obama administration has been far more worried about protecting the banks than protecting homeowners. The big weaknesses in the administration's main antiforeclosure policy is that participation by lenders is voluntary and homeowners have little leverage to get better terms -- especially reductions in loan principal when the mortgage balance is greater than the value of the home.
One way to change that would be for Congress to reform the bankruptcy law so troubled borrowers could turn to the courts for a loan modification if banks were uncooperative. Homeowners also need a simple process to challenge a bank if it uses incorrect information to deny a modification and justify a foreclosure, or if it refuses to divulge the facts and figures it used.
The administration also needs to alter refinancing guidelines so that many borrowers who are current in their payments are eligible to refinance to lower rates, even if their houses have declined in value. It needs to provide more legal aid to homeowners, using money authorized by Congress.
This latest foreclosure crisis should settle one issue once and for all. The banks that got us into this mess can't be trusted to get us out of it. The administration and Congress need to act.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (91%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); BAILOUTS (76%); LITIGATION (74%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (69%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (67%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); ALLY FINANCIAL INC (68%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%); BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (68%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (68%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2010



374 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: The Mortgage Morass

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
American officials used to lecture other countries about their economic failings and tell them that they needed to emulate the U.S. model. The Asian financial crisis of the late 1990s, in particular, led to a lot of self-satisfied moralizing. Thus, in 2000, Lawrence Summers, then the Treasury secretary, declared that the keys to avoiding financial crisis were ''well-capitalized and supervised banks, effective corporate governance and bankruptcy codes, and credible means of contract enforcement.'' By implication, these were things the Asians lacked but we had.
We didn't. 
The accounting scandals at Enron and WorldCom dispelled the myth of effective corporate governance. These days, the idea that our banks were well capitalized and supervised sounds like a sick joke. And now the mortgage mess is making nonsense of claims that we have effective contract enforcement -- in fact, the question is whether our economy is governed by any kind of rule of law.
The story so far: An epic housing bust and sustained high unemployment have led to an epidemic of default, with millions of homeowners falling behind on mortgage payments. So servicers -- the companies that collect payments on behalf of mortgage owners -- have been foreclosing on many mortgages, seizing many homes.
But do they actually have the right to seize these homes? Horror stories have been proliferating, like the case of the Florida man whose home was taken even though he had no mortgage. More significantly, certain players have been ignoring the law. Courts have been approving foreclosures without requiring that mortgage servicers produce appropriate documentation; instead, they have relied on affidavits asserting that the papers are in order. And these affidavits were often produced by ''robo-signers,'' or low-level employees who had no idea whether their assertions were true.
Now an awful truth is becoming apparent: In many cases, the documentation doesn't exist. In the frenzy of the bubble, much home lending was undertaken by fly-by-night companies trying to generate as much volume as possible. These loans were sold off to mortgage ''trusts,'' which, in turn, sliced and diced them into mortgage-backed securities. The trusts were legally required to obtain and hold the mortgage notes that specified the borrowers' obligations. But it's now apparent that such niceties were frequently neglected. And this means that many of the foreclosures now taking place are, in fact, illegal.
This is very, very bad. For one thing, it's a near certainty that significant numbers of borrowers are being defrauded -- charged fees they don't actually owe, declared in default when, by the terms of their loan agreements, they aren't.
Beyond that, if trusts can't produce proof that they actually own the mortgages against which they have been selling claims, the sponsors of these trusts will face lawsuits from investors who bought these claims -- claims that are now, in many cases, worth only a small fraction of their face value.
And who are these sponsors? Major financial institutions -- the same institutions supposedly rescued by government programs last year. So the mortgage mess threatens to produce another financial crisis.
What can be done?
True to form, the Obama administration's response has been to oppose any action that might upset the banks, like a temporary moratorium on foreclosures while some of the issues are resolved. Instead, it is asking the banks, very nicely, to behave better and clean up their act. I mean, that's worked so well in the past, right?
The response from the right is, however, even worse. Republicans in Congress are lying low, but conservative commentators like those at The Wall Street Journal's editorial page have come out dismissing the lack of proper documents as a triviality. In effect, they're saying that if a bank says it owns your house, we should just take its word. To me, this evokes the days when noblemen felt free to take whatever they wanted, knowing that peasants had no standing in the courts. But then, I suspect that some people regard those as the good old days.
What should be happening? The excesses of the bubble years have created a legal morass, in which property rights are ill defined because nobody has proper documentation. And where no clear property rights exist, it's the government's job to create them.
That won't be easy, but there are good ideas out there. For example, the Center for American Progress has proposed giving mortgage counselors and other public entities the power to modify troubled loans directly, with their judgment standing unless appealed by the mortgage servicer. This would do a lot to clarify matters and help extract us from the morass.
One thing is for sure: What we're doing now isn't working. And pretending that things are O.K. won't convince anyone.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); FORECLOSURE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (76%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (75%); HOMEOWNERS (74%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (74%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (72%); PERSONAL DEBT (71%); ACCOUNTING (70%); SCANDALS (70%); MORTGAGE LOANS (54%)

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (57%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (57%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (57%); VZ (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2010



375 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 708 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Trade Deficit With China Widens

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER; David Barboza contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The United States trade deficit widened in August, with the politically charged imbalance with China reaching its highest mark on record, according to government figures released Thursday.
The trade deficit grew to $46.3 billion, up from a revised $42.6 billion in July and exceeding forecasts for a gap of around $44 billion. The deficit with China accounted for $28 billion of the August shortfall, up from $25.9 billion the month before.
The widening gap with China comes amid rising concerns in Washington about China's trade dominance and its effect on the global economic recovery. The Obama administration and some lawmakers are pressing China to allow its currency to appreciate more quickly, hoping it will temper Chinese exports by making them more expensive. 
With a high unemployment rate in the United States, trade and currency issues with China have become a particularly delicate topic in the run-up to the midterm elections, with some members of Congress threatening to impose import tariffs on China. Beijing has defended its strategy, saying that it wants to allow its currency to fluctuate with market forces in its own time.
''The widening in the international trade deficit in August, and in particular the jump in the bilateral deficit with China to a record high, will only fuel growing speculation of a currency war,'' economists from Capital Economics said in a research note.
But some economists cautioned against oversimplifying the solution to the imbalance, saying that there needed to be a change in consumer preferences in the United States along with any change in policy.
''The only way this works in reducing the U.S. trade deficit is if U.S. consumers shift their consumption of Chinese goods to U.S.-produced goods,'' said Dan Greenhaus, the chief economic strategist for Miller Tabak & Company. ''You need to increase the appeal of U.S.-based goods.''
Steven Ricchiuto, the chief economist for Mizuho Securities USA, said adjustments needed to be made throughout the American economy. He said companies would need to start investing some of their extensive cash holdings, improving the rate of return for local production and potentially ramping up employment and demand.
''It is not easy to improve a trade deficit just by adjusting currencies,'' he said.
The overall deficit is now at an annual rate of $502.5 billion, up 34 percent from the $374.9 billion deficit for 2009.
The government reported that exports totaled $153.9 billion in August, while imports were $200.2 billion. The imports total reflected a rise in consumer goods, capital goods, automobiles, parts and engines. Petroleum accounted for about a third of the increase in the deficit, but a $1.5 billion decline in the volatile aircraft sector could be reversed in September, Yelena Shulyatyeva, a United States economist with BNP Paribas, noted in a statement.
The report suggested that trade would continue to be a drag on growth in the third quarter and a closely watched indicator as the United States continues to recover from the recession.
Recent slowdowns in job and output growth have weighed on economic forecasts for the remainder of 2010. On Thursday, first-time claims for unemployment insurance provided the latest sign of a weak labor market, reaching 462,000 in the week of Oct. 9, an increase of 13,000 from the previous week, the Labor Department said. Economists had expected the number to go down, by 4,000.
The figures followed Friday's snapshot of the labor market, which that showed the economy lost 95,000 nonfarm jobs in September.
''The claims numbers show you the economy is moving at such a glacial pace that nothing is really improving there,'' Mr. Ricchiuto said.
Inflation in terms of producer prices remained stable in September, rising by 0.4 percent, compared with a 0.4 percent gain in August, the Labor Department said. The core index, which excludes volatile food and energy prices, rose by a slight 0.1 percent last month, in line with expectations.
Joshua Shapiro, the chief United States economist for MFR, said the underlying price trend of the core finished goods index was benign.
''It remains our belief that copious global spare capacity will keep it that way at least in the near term,'' he said in a research note.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Port of Charleston, S.C. The growing trade deficit is expected to hold back economic growth. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANNE McQUARY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHARTS Jobless Claims: Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time. (Source: Labor Department, via Bloomberg)
 Balance of Trade: The deficit is the excess of imports over exports for goods and services. Amounts are rounded, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (94%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); DURABLE GOODS (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (75%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (68%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (57%)

COMPANY: BNP PARIBAS SA (54%); MIZUHO SECURITIES CO LTD (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%)

TICKER: BNP (PAR) (54%); BNP (BIT) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (54%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (74%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2010



376 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1425 words

HEADLINE: Taking a Vote on Union Construction

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
SAN DIEGO -- California's go-go construction industry came crashing to earth when the housing bubble burst. Ever since, union leaders and nonunion contractors have fought hammer and tongs for a bigger share of the shrunken business, much of which is public sector construction.
Labor unions have used their clout to persuade many city councils, county boards and school districts to adopt policies that favor unionized contractors and workers for building projects like schools and prisons.
Fuming at the favoritism, nonunion contractors have begun turning to the ballot box, asking voters to prohibit cities and counties from adopting such a pro-union tilt.
Southern California has become the focal point of this anti-union sentiment. In June, after an expensive propaganda war pitting business against labor, voters in Oceanside and Chula Vista approved measures barring city officials from adopting pro-union construction policies. 
And next month, residents of San Diego County, which includes the two cities, will vote on a similar ban against favoring unions in county construction contracts, which total about $100 million a year.
''Certain elected officials have an almost canine affection for anything that unions demand of them,'' said Eric Christen, director of the Coalition for Fair Employment in Construction, a business-backed group promoting the county ban. ''This isn't a union or nonunion issue. This is a fairness or discrimination issue. This is a fiscally sane versus fiscally insane issue.''
If the county ballot initiative passes, nonunion contractors plan to push for similar bans across the state, and eventually the nation, said Scott Crosby, president of the San Diego chapter of Associated Builders and Contractors, a group of nonunion builders.
''We have a 50-state strategy,'' Mr. Crosby said. ''This is overwhelmingly a fight for market share.''
The battle is focused on what are called project labor agreements, union-friendly pacts that are often used to smooth labor relations on large construction projects.
Under these agreements, the project owner -- sometimes a private corporation, sometimes a government body -- negotiates with unions before any contracts are bid to set rules on benefits, hours, holidays and other matters.
The agreements also require that winning contractors, whether union or nonunion, use only workers hired through union hiring halls. That allows nonunion workers to be hired, but requires all workers to join the union during the project. In exchange, construction unions promise not to strike or otherwise disrupt work.
Labor leaders, and some project owners, assert that the agreements help ensure that projects are completed on schedule and on budget. Such agreements were used to build Disney World and the Trans-Alaska Pipeline. Toyota Motor used one for its new Tacoma compact pickup plant in San Antonio.
''We've had P.L.A.'s on all of our projects, dating back to construction of the Kentucky plant in the mid-1980s,'' said Mike Goss, a spokesman for Toyota North America. ''It's been a great experience on every project. All projects have come in on budget and on time.''
But opponents say the agreements inexcusably discriminate against nonunion contractors and workers while increasing construction costs.
The use of project labor agreements on government projects has waxed and waned for decades, depending on who was in power. For example, Gov. Tim Pawlenty of Minnesota and former Gov. Mike Huckabee of Arkansas, both Republicans, prohibited the agreements on state projects, as did the Missouri and Utah legislatures. But New York Gov. David A. Paterson and Massachusetts Gov. Deval Patrick, both Democrats, have embraced them on some projects.
Soon after taking office, President Obama issued an order encouraging federal agencies to use the agreements on projects of more than $25 million. President George W. Bush had barred the government from using the agreements.
A.F.L.-C.I.O. officials estimate that construction projects worth $100 billion nationwide have adopted the agreements in the last two years.
Here in California, the fight over the agreements has become so heated in part because the volume of nonresidential construction in the state has fallen 33 percent from its peak in 2006, while 400,000 construction jobs have been lost.
Government budget crises have helped fuel the campaign against the agreements, with many critics saying they unnecessarily raise the cost of public projects. Many nonunion contractors in the San Diego area are particularly incensed because they helped win voter approval of a $2.1 billion school bond last year, only to see unions persuade the school board to vote 3 to 2 to embrace project labor agreements for all the construction.
Determined to strip public officials of such discretion, the nonunion contractors first appealed to voters in Chula Vista and Oceanside. Chula Vista voters approved a ban on the agreements, 56 percent to 44 percent, and in Oceanside, the margin was slightly thinner.
Last week, nonunion contractors sent San Diego County voters a flier saying, ''It's not fair to force someone to join a union just to work on a taxpayer-funded project.''
Unions say many of the contractors fighting the agreements are ''low-road'' employers who do not provide health benefits and do not provide workers' compensation coverage, in violation of state law.
Union leaders also argue that the agreements are good for everyone concerned. ''They're good for the owner of a project and for taxpayers because they help make sure the work is on time and on budget,'' said Tom Lemmon, director of the San Diego Building and Construction Trades Council, an umbrella group for 35,000 unionized workers. ''And they're good for the workers because they guarantee that everyone has health and pension coverage.''
For unions, the stakes are large. About 24 percent of California's 543,000 construction workers belong to unions, but on projects using the agreements, 75 percent do.
Opponents of the agreements say they slow construction and inflate costs by requiring contractors to follow inefficient union work rules, such as having construction laborers carry electricians' materials instead of letting the electricians carry their own materials.
Mr. Crosby, of the contractors' group, said unions often bully project owners into using project labor agreements by harassing them with banners and giant inflatable rats at work sites or by filing suits accusing them of failing to prepare adequate environmental impact statements.
David G. Tuerck, executive director of the Beacon Hill Institute, a public policy research center at Suffolk University in Boston, said the agreements had one purpose: to discourage nonunion contractors from bidding on big construction projects. ''That's a problem because something like 85 percent of construction workers are nonunion,'' he said.
He said taxpayers also suffered. Studying projects in Massachusetts, Connecticut and New York, he found that the agreements raised costs 12 to 20 percent.
Ken Kreischer, president of Western Water Contractors, a nonunion company in Santa Rosa, Calif., said that having to pay ''double benefits'' discouraged him from bidding on jobs with project labor agreements. He said he provided health and retirement plans for his core employees, but under an agreement, he would also have to pay into a union health and pension plan for them. That would raise his costs for those employees by $20 an hour, he said.
Although the agreements require that workers be hired through the union hiring hall, they often allow nonunion contractors to use six or eight of their core employees, although those employees must join the union and pay union dues during the project. Under federal and most state project labor agreements, union and nonunion contractors are generally required to pay workers the prevailing wage, usually just below the union rate.
Dale Belman, a professor of industrial relations at Michigan State University, said it made sense for states and cities to use project labor agreements because many corporations had embraced them. He has been a co-author of several studies concluding that the agreements do not raise construction costs or decrease the number of bidders.
One of his co-authors, Matthew Bodah, the chairman of the economics department at the University of Rhode Island, said: ''Nonunion groups claim that these are just a political bone thrown to unions, but there has to be more to it than that. Why do so many well-known companies always build under P.L.A.'s?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A welder in training at the Iron Workers Local 229 hiring hall, San Diego. Project labor agreements require contractors to hire all workers through a union. (B1)
 Cesar Cabrera, center, assigning jobs at a union hall in San Diego, where a vote is set to stop union preference in county contracts. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SANDY HUFFAKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (94%); LABOR UNIONS (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (89%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); HOUSING BUBBLE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTING (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); COUNTIES (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); CITIES (76%); REFERENDUMS (75%); BALLOTS (75%); BUDGETS (72%); INFRASTRUCTURE (72%); PICKUP TRUCKS (71%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (71%); MARKET SHARE (57%)

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (50%)

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (50%); TM (NYSE) (50%); 7203 (TSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (95%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2010



377 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 367 words

HEADLINE: Need a Lawyer? Good Luck

 BODY:
Across the country, programs that provide legal representation in civil cases to low-income Americans are so cash-strapped that they are turning away numbers of people. Hard-pressed Americans fighting foreclosure or seeking protection from domestic violence or access to medical care or unemployment benefits must often navigate the judicial system on their own or give up. 
For much of its financing, civil legal aid has relied on the interest earnings from escrow accounts that private lawyers often hold for clients. That has all but disappeared as interest rates have dropped. At the same time, deficit-plagued statehouses are cutting support, while federal dollars are not taking up enough of the slack.
The chief judge of New York State's highest court, Jonathan Lippman, has begun a campaign for expanded state support. At recent public meetings, business, political, and bar leaders, judges and litigants described the high cost, to all New Yorkers, of denying such assistance to the poor.
Beyond basic moral and ethical concerns, they argued, the rising volume of self-represented litigants is causing court delays that impose financial burdens on opposing parties with lawyers. Foreclosures that might be avoided drive families into shelters, further straining local budgets and disrupting lives. Hospitals operating at the financial brink are hurt when poor people can't obtain Medicaid payments for their treatment.
A special commission named by Judge Lippman is readying a report that will assess the unmet needs for civil legal services and suggest cost-effective steps to meet them. Even in hard times, progress should be possible. New York's State Legislature already has approved a measure that would allow borrowers who prevail against banks in foreclosure actions to recover their attorneys' fees. Gov. David Paterson needs to sign it.
After the election recess, Congress must approve the extra financing to provide legal services for struggling homeowners authorized in the financial reform law. It must also approve a substantial budget increase for the federal Legal Services Corporation, which helps finance these critical programs, and ditch senseless restrictions hampering its mission.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAWYERS (91%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FORECLOSURE (89%); BUDGETS (89%); LEGAL SERVICES (89%); LEGAL AID (89%); ETHICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); MEDICAID (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (77%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (77%); PROPERTY ESCROW (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); JUDGES (75%); COSTS & ATTORNEY FEES (75%); APPROVALS (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (72%); HOSPITALS (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (72%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (68%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2010



378 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; ON SOCCER; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 999 words

HEADLINE: Plans for New Stadiums Include Soccer

BYLINE: By ROB HUGHES

 BODY:
London
The new Olympic Stadium rising in East London is the object of desire for two soccer clubs that want to uproot and move in when the 2012 Games are over.
Developers proposing a new N.F.L. stadium in Los Angeles are suggesting that their design could be made to accommodate anything FIFA might require and that their building could be a fulcrum to the United States' bid for the 2022 World Cup.
Historically, sports stadiums mean different things on either side of the Atlantic. An Englishman's home is his castle, and he prefers his club rooted to the same spot for life. American fans will move where the entertainment is. 
But modern times bring us closer together. Everyone can see, from Montreal to Athens to Beijing, the ghastly mistake of erecting stadiums for single events and watching them decay into ghostly white elephants.
London was granted the Olympics on condition that track and field, the cornerstone of the Games, would have a permanent legacy in the English capital. Keeping that promise will probably still determine which soccer team wins the contest to play in the Olympic stadium.
Two clubs in the East End of London are putting in applications. West Ham United would honor the pledge and keep the running track around its soccer field. Tottenham Hotspur, in conjunction with the American company AEG, wants the stadium but not the track.
There is good reason for both arguments.
The English especially like to feel close to the action. Their soccer tradition works best when the fans are almost within touching distance of the players. It brings out a sense of togetherness, a bonding even in these times, when two-thirds of the star players in the English Premier League are foreigners. The atmosphere generates an urgency that makes the game in England the fastest, most physically demanding on earth.
Neither the Hammers nor the Spurs would have to move far from their roots to take up residence in the Olympic stadium. West Ham's current stadium, the Boleyn Ground in Upton Park, is two miles away.
Two miles, but a world of difference. The old ground holds memories of Bobby Moore and Geoff Hurst and Martin Peters, heroes of the only time England won the World Cup, in 1966. You cannot run a club on memories alone, but the tradition is passed down from fathers to sons and daughters. The original Hammers were workers at the Thames Ironworks 115 years ago, and even though the shipbuilding company is long gone, the club, bolted onto its Upton Park site, has remained synonymous with the East Enders.
Though many have moved out, and immigrants have moved in, the regular league games played there represent a homecoming for the fans.
But their club almost fell into the recession trap two years ago when its Icelandic owners went bankrupt. The new owners, East Enders returning for soccer and for business, eyed the move to the Olympic stadium.
It would cost them maybe $160 million to convert an Olympic arena into a multipurpose stadium that would primarily be used for soccer. But it would almost double the spectator capacity, would come with ready-made transportation hubs and would integrate the soccer club with local centers of sports and education. The old stadium would be sold off to developers.
The sentimental attachment that whole families hold for Upton Park would be broken. But the same thing happened in Manchester, where the 2002 Commonwealth Games stadium became the new home for Manchester City supporters and their beloved Maine Road stadium was sold and developed for housing.
Tottenham will also have to move someday if its newfound status in the European Champions League is to be sustained. Its present stadium, White Hart Lane, is cramped by residential properties, and its approaches are congested by antiquated transportation links.
But Spurs' partner in seeking the Olympic option, AEG, will not make the pledge to maintain the running track.
''I think it is a crime if you sacrifice having a perfect football stadium for convincing yourself you are going to do a track and field event every 10 years,'' Timothy Leiweke, the president of AEG, said last week.
His company owns the Los Angeles Galaxy of Major League Soccer and manages the 02 Arena in East London.
AEG is also considering whether to build a Los Angeles stadium fit for a new or relocated N.F.L. franchise. AEG's business plan would lay down the new stadium in central Los Angeles.
A rival developer, Majestic Reality, is drawing up a design for an N.F.L. stadium in the hills east of Los Angeles. This week, Dan Meis, the principal stadium architect for Majestic, said he was working on a plan that would enable the design to be adapted for use as a World Cup soccer venue.
''Because we're building a new stadium,'' Meis told The Associated Press, ''we could incorporate anything FIFA could want.''
FIFA, the world soccer federation, has plenty of options, in both the East and the West. Its 2018 event is expected to go to Europe, with England and Russia the leading contenders. Its 2022 World Cup, which will be decided on the same day this year, Dec. 2, will go to Asia or the United States.
So, far from single-purpose arenas, the London Olympic stadium and a new California stadium could very well be filled for the two most expensive, and expansive, global sporting events on the horizon.
West Ham's proposal, already backed by the regional political authority, received formal backing Monday from another major stakeholder, U.K. Athletics.
In today's world, it is not inconceivable that the redesign after the 2012 Games could allow for retractable seating. This could bring spectators closer to the soccer field for every home game the Hammers play and slide back once major track events are held.
The stadiums are inanimate real estate. But it seems that in many sports these days, anyone without a 60,000-seat modern facility is not competitive on the bigger stages -- of Europe or the United States.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (94%); SOCCER (94%); SPORTS (90%); 2012 LONDON SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); RUNNING (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (78%); TRACK & FIELD (76%); IMMIGRATION (63%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERATION INTERNATIONALE DE FOOTBALL ASSOCIATION (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); QUEBEC, CANADA (73%) UNITED STATES (94%); ENGLAND (92%); CANADA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2010



379 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1302 words

HEADLINE: In a Quest for Growth, The World Is Sending More Money to India

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
MUMBAI, India -- Two years ago, when the crisis on Wall Street reached its pinnacle, the high-flying Indian stock market fell with a thud as foreign investors took nearly $5 billion out of the country.
The situation is very different today. In September, foreign investors poured $7.1 billion into Indian stocks and bonds -- a monthly record for foreign investment in India's securities market. The major stock indexes appear poised to breach the highs that they set in early 2008, when many analysts first argued that fast-growth developing countries were ''decoupling'' from the developed world.
Talk of decoupling is in the air again, especially here in India.
The United States, along with much of Europe and Japan, may stay in the economic doldrums for some time. But many economists and policy makers here say that the problems in developed economies could benefit emerging nations like India, as Western hedge funds, banks and other investors hunt for growth opportunities. 
With an economic growth rate of nearly 9 percent and a stock market that is more open to foreign investors than mainland China's, India has become a destination of choice for financial investors. In the first nine months of the year, foreigners invested $28.5 billion in Indian stocks and bonds -- more than twice what they invested in the comparable period of 2009.
The Sensex index, India's equivalent of the Dow Jones industrial average, is up about 22 percent in the last 12 months and 114 percent since the end of 2008.
On Wednesday the index closed up 2.4 percent, to 20,687.88 points, and is now less than one percentage point away from the record high set in January 2008.
The Indian rupee has appreciated about 4 percent against the dollar so far this year.
''The rest of the world is starved for growth,'' said Manish Saini, an analyst and trader at Eastern Advisors, explaining why his New York-based hedge fund has increased investments in India and other emerging markets in the last year. ''And India is still producing relatively high real rates of G.D.P. growth.''
The strength of the market has been a boon for Indian companies, as well as the Indian government, which has been selling shares in state-owned firms. On Monday, it will start selling a 10 percent stake in Coal India, the world's largest coal-mining company, in an initial public offering. The sale could fetch up to $3.4 billion.
There are also plenty of skeptics, of course, who say that the Indian stock market may be getting dangerously frothy. And Indian individual investors, burned by the 2008 crash, have shown more wariness than foreign money managers.
But foreign investors are moving money to emerging markets in part to take advantage of a growing gap between near-zero interest rates in the United States and Japan, and rising rates in India, Brazil and elsewhere. A key benchmark rate set by the Reserve Bank of India stands at 6 percent, up 1.25 percent since March. As the difference between rates grow, traders can make more money by borrowing cheaply in dollars and yen and investing that money in higher yielding stocks and bonds in developing economies.
The Institute of International Finance, an association of financial firms, estimates that emerging markets will receive $825 billion in private capital flows this year, up from $581 billion in 2009.
Some analyst and policy makers are increasingly worried about the torrent of cash flowing from developed to developing countries.
In developed countries, the flows undercut the efforts of officials in Washington, Brussels and Tokyo to revive their economies by pumping money into the economy at low interest rates. And in developing countries, the flows threaten to raise the value of currencies, making their exports less competitive and potentially inflating bubbles in stock and real estate markets.
Some Indian analysts say they fear that the increasing bullishness about developing nations is sending stocks here to dizzying heights that may not be justified, even in light of the country's high growth rate, which some expect to slow somewhat in the coming months. Moreover, these people say investors appear to be ignoring the lessons of the recent financial crisis, which did not remain confined to the developed world.
''There are fairly serious risks of frothiness in equity markets escalating if capital continues to pour into India,'' said Eswar S. Prasad, an economics professor at Cornell. ''We may be in the boom phase of a boom-bust cycle, with all the risks that entails.''
Mr. Prasad, who has advised the Indian government on economic issues, says he worries that foreign investors in India could suddenly decide to withdraw their money, as they did in 2008, if the Indian economy slowed or if global markets were rattled by another crisis. That reversal could then pull down real economic growth in India by depriving the country of capital.
In 2008, for example, India's growth rate fell to 6.7 percent, from 9.2 percent, partly because foreign investors took billions of dollars out of Indian stocks and bonds and slowed down new investments. The slowdown severely hit real estate developers, airlines and other companies with large capital requirements.
One big concern today is that the majority of the foreign money flooding into India is going into the stock market, rather than into new projects and start-up companies. While flows into the stock market have more than doubled, foreign direct investment into India fell more than 24 percent in the first seven months of the year, to $12.5 billion, compared with the comparable period a year earlier.
Unlike holdings in the stock market, which can be sold quickly when traders in London or New York get nervous, direct investments in factories, stores and companies are harder to sell and are usually held for longer periods, economists say.
Still, Indian officials, bankers and economists say they do not worry much about a repeat of 2008. Their optimism appears to be based in part on the belief that investors are unlikely to find better opportunities elsewhere in the world.
India, these people say, is beginning a long period of high growth because its population is young and demanding more goods and services. The government is slowly beginning to improve infrastructure and further loosen control over the economy. And the financial system here is healthier than in Western countries, where banks still have many bad loans on their books.
''If you look at the Indian opportunity, most things are going in its favor,'' said Neeraj Swaroop, who heads Standard Chartered's operations in India and South Asia. ''And there aren't too many real risks that we see around the corner.''
Still, many Indians have become more cautious about the stock market. Individual investors, for instance, have not jumped at recent initial public offerings like that of SKS Microfinance, a lender to poor women that was very popular with institutional investors. By contrast, in early 2008, middle-class Indians clamored to buy public offerings like Reliance Power, an electricity firm that was relatively untested.
Surjit S. Bhalla, an economist and fund manager based in New Delhi, said he recently downgraded his bullish outlook on the global economy, because of the dour news coming out of the United States, Europe and Japan. He is more hopeful about the Indian economy but said he believed that its stock market could fall 10 percent to 15 percent.
''The Indian market rallied from last year on the expectations of broadly a V-shaped recovery, and it did obtain that,'' said Mr. Bhalla, who is managing director of Oxus Research and Investments. ''But when the V-shaped recovery became the prospect of a double-dip recession, it hasn't corrected at all.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Bombay Stock Exchange in Mumbai. So far this year, foreigners have invested $28.5 billion in Indian stocks and bonds. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KUNI TAKAHASHI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: Hot Spot for Foreign Investors (Sources: Securities and Exchange Board of India, via Haver
 Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENT (92%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BONDS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (78%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); STOCK OFFERINGS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); CURRENCIES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); HEDGE FUNDS (67%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (67%); MINES & MINING (60%); COAL MINING (60%); SALES & SELLING (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2010



380 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1051 words

HEADLINE: Wal-Mart to Add More Local Foods

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

 BODY:
The local-and-sustainable food movement has spread to the nation's largest retailer.
Wal-Mart Stores announced a program on Thursday that focuses on sustainable agriculture among its suppliers as it tries to reduce its overall environmental impact.
The program is intended to put more locally grown food in Wal-Mart stores in the United States, invest in training and infrastructure for small and medium-size farmers, particularly in emerging markets, and begin to measure how efficiently large suppliers grow and get their produce into stores. 
Advocates of environmentally sustainable farming said the announcement was significant because of Wal-Mart's size and because it would give small farmers a chance at Wal-Mart's business, but they questioned how ''local'' a $405 billion company with two million employees -- more than the populations of Alaska, Wyoming and Vermont combined -- could be.
Given that Wal-Mart is the world's largest grocer, with one of the biggest food supply chains, any change it made would have wide implications. Wal-Mart's decision five years ago to set sustainability goals that, among other things, increased its reliance on renewable energy and reduced packaging waste among its suppliers sent broad ripples through product manufacturers. Large companies like Procter & Gambleredesigned packages that are now carried by other retailers, while Wal-Mart's measurements of the environmental efficiency of its suppliers helped define how they needed to change.
''No other retailer has the ability to make more of a difference than Wal-Mart,'' the retailer's president and chief executive, Michael T. Duke, said in remarks prepared for a meeting on Thursday morning. ''Grocery is more than half of Wal-Mart's business. Yet only four of our 39 public sustainability goals address food.''
Wal-Mart said it expected to meet the goals by the end of 2015.
In the United States, Wal-Mart plans to double the percentage of locally grown produce it sells to 9 percent. Wal-Mart defines local produce as that grown and sold in the same state.
Still, the program is far less ambitious than in some other countries -- in Canada, for instance, Wal-Mart expects to buy 30 percent of its produce locally by the end of 2013, and, when local produce is available, increase that to 100 percent.
''Our food business in Canada is brand new, so there's a lot they can do,'' said Andrea Thomas, senior vice president of sustainability, at a news conference. She said the program allowed each country to set its own specific goals.
In emerging markets, Wal-Mart has pledged to sell $1 billion of food from small and medium farmers (which it defines as farmers with fewer than 20 hectares, about 50 acres). It will also provide training for the farmers and their laborers on how to choose crops that are in demand and on the proper application of water and pesticides.
Both in the United States and globally, Wal-Mart will invest more than $1 billion to improve its supply chain for perishable food. For example, if trucks, trains and distribution centers could help farmers in Minnesota get crops to Wal-Mart more quickly, the result would be less spoiled food, a longer shelf life and presumably more profit for the farmers and for Wal-Mart.
Wal-Mart said it planned to reduce food waste in emerging-market stores by 15 percent and in other stores by 10 percent.
Michelle Mauthe Harvey of the Environmental Defense Fund, who worked with Wal-Mart on the goals, said this was significant.
''As we've moved to reliance on key locations like California and Florida,'' she said, ''we've made it very difficult for local farmers to actually get their food to market.''
As Wal-Mart is doing with consumer products, it will begin asking agricultural producers questions about water, fertilizer and chemical use. The eventual goal is to include that information in a sustainability index.
Customers would see sustainability ratings, so they could decide whether to choose one avocado over another based on how efficiently it was grown and shipped. Wal-Mart could use index information when it decided from whom to buy.
Finally, the company announced specific guidelines for the sources of its products, including a requirement that palm oil from sustainable sources be used in all its private-label products (the Wal-Mart house brands) and that any beef it sold not have contributed to the deforestation of the Amazon region because of cattle ranch expansion.
While the overall goals include Sam's Club, the warehouse store wing of Wal-Mart, that division also has other specific goals, including a 15 percent increase in fair trade or Rainforest Alliance certified flowers and produce.
Some local food supporters said that while the environmental goals were positive, Wal-Mart could not provide some benefits that other buy-local movements did.
For instance, said Linda Berlin, director of the Center for Sustainable Agriculture at the University of Vermont, farmers' markets help return money to the local economy.
''The local-food movement has been, certainly, about taste and quality of food, about providing good incomes for farmers, and also about other things that have to do with building smaller economies so we as a society aren't dominated by the more industrial complexes,'' she said. ''This initiative doesn't necessarily address that.''
Other environmental and agricultural specialists said it would have a big impact.
''It's very impressive,'' said Margaret Mellon, director of the food and environment program at the Union of Concerned Scientists. ''It's encouraging that Wal-Mart understands that the path forward in agriculture isn't through making the big bigger, it's really through encouraging the small and medium-sized farms,'' she said. Still, she said she was disappointed that goals around organic food were not included, and surprised that Wal-Mart did not address genetically modified seeds and produce.
The agricultural sustainability index was particularly noteworthy, said one academic who worked with Wal-Mart on the goals.
''The index represents a real number that will mean improvement on the ground: improving ecosystem health, soil health and food quality,'' said Marty Matlock, a professor of ecological engineering at the University of Arkansas, which ''will move agricultural producers en masse.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Because of Wal-Mart's size, its decision to endorse locally grown produce could have a big effect on the market as a whole. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIK S. LESSER/WAL-MART) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE (92%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (91%); AGRICULTURE (90%); RETAILERS (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (78%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (78%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (73%); EXECUTIVES (68%)

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (98%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (98%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (98%)

PERSON: MICHAEL T DUKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2010



381 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 491 words

HEADLINE: Dollar Dips as Indexes Pull Back

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Stocks fell on Thursday on worries over the banking sector while the dollar continued its slide against major currencies.
An unexpected increase in the Labor Department's weekly tally of new claims for jobless benefits reinforced expectations that unemployment above 9 percent will lead the Fed to take action. 
Initial unemployment claims rose by 13,000 to 462,000 in the week ended Oct. 9, helping lead to a drop in the dollar, which fell to a 15-year low against the yen and reached its weakest level compared with the euro since January. The dollar is now trading at above $1.40 per euro.
''The market is more infatuated with these weekly and monthly numbers than ever before,'' said Larry Peruzzi, senior equity trader at Cabrera Capital Markets in Boston. ''The bulk of the move is coming from these numbers, and what you're able to infer from that about whether there's going to be continued easing from the Fed.''
Gold, meanwhile, continued its upward march, rising $9, to $1,381.15, as investors sought safe havens.
Some technology stocks rallied on takeover rumors and better earnings reports from companies like Google. But Bank of America, Citigroup and Wells Fargo slid more than 4 percent amid concern over growing legal scrutiny of home foreclosure practices.
In addition, a report from RealtyTrac said that lenders took over 102,134 properties last month, the most since the company began tracking the data in 2005. Foreclosure filings, including default and auction notices, rose 3 percent from the previous month. One out of every 371 households received a notice.
''Investors are afraid of how much mortgage debt could actually come back onto banks' balance sheets,'' said Anton V. Schutz, of Mendon Capital Advisors in Rochester. ''People are really questioning the way these banks underwrote mortgages, their entire process.''
At the end of the day, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 0.4 percent, or 4.29 points, to 1,173.81. The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 1.51 points, or less than 0.1 percent, to 11,094.57, while the Nasdaq was off 5.85 points, or 0.24 percent, to 2,435.38.
The Apollo Group, the operator of the University of Phoenix, plunged 23 percent to $38. The company withdrew its 2011 forecast, citing regulatory scrutiny and a possible 40 percent decline in new students.
Shares of several technology companies had gains. EMC, the world's biggest maker of storage computers, added 4.5 percent to $21.21. The Evening Standard in London reported that Oracle, which has said it is in the market for semiconductor companies and makers of industry-specific software, might pay $40 a share for EMC.
After the markets closed, Google reported better-than-expected earnings in the third quarter. In after-hours trading, the company's stock soared nearly 9 percent, or more than $47, to $588.79 a share.
The Treasury's 10-year note fell 24/32, to 101. The yield rose to 2.51 percent, from 2.47 percent late Wednesday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); FORECLOSURE (89%); ELECTRONICS (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); TAKEOVERS (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (76%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (71%); PERSONAL DEBT (69%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (60%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (60%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); GOOGLE INC (55%); APOLLO GROUP INC (51%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); WFC (NYSE) (84%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (55%); APOL (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS611310 COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (51%); SIC8221 COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES, & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (50%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2010



382 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1026 words

HEADLINE: Lending Up, But Demand Is Lacking

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
Corporate lending by banks is rising. Finally.
JPMorgan Chase & Company reported this week that its total portfolio of outstanding commercial banking loans rose to $97 billion in the third quarter, a 1 percent gain from three months earlier.
JPMorgan was the first of the big banks to report its third-quarter results, with the rest to follow next week. There are signs, however, that it is not an aberration.
In announcing the figures, Jamie Dimon, the chairman and chief executive, focused on the fact that ''middle-market'' loans -- made to companies with annual revenue of $10 million to $500 million -- rose 3 percent, to $35.3 billion, during the quarter. 
Presumably he thinks that we will be more impressed if we focus on loans to smaller, and perhaps more sympathetic, companies. But he may also be right to focus there. Securities markets have also opened up, and larger companies -- even those with less than sterling credit -- have been borrowing more than before from that source. Smaller companies are more likely to be dependent on banks for new financing.
In both middle-market lending and in total commercial loans, the increases reported this week were the first for JPMorgan since it expanded in late 2008 with the takeover of Washington Mutual.
Some of the borrowing by large companies has been opportunistic, reflecting not so much a need for capital as a willingness to borrow at rates so low they seem hard to believe. Microsoft issued three-year bonds with a coupon of less than 1 percent. In its case, the money will help pay higher dividends. Other companies seem to be sitting on the cash they raise. But bank loans are most likely taken by companies that want to use the cash soon.
Over all, the volume of JPMorgan's outstanding loans is still falling, a fact that can be used to support one popular explanation of what is wrong with the economy: Banks won't lend, or perhaps borrowers won't borrow. Either way, that is both cause and result of a weak economy.
That story line may have reflected last year's reality better than it does current facts. The Federal Reserve's data on total outstanding commercial and industrial loans shows lending is rising now, at both small and large commercial banks. The amounts are still falling at American branches of foreign banks, but those declines are not enough to offset the growth in lending by domestic institutions.
Rising loan totals can be a bad sign. Such loans soared in the weeks after Lehman Brothers failed in September 2008, but not because banks suddenly were more willing to lend. The opposite was true. What happened was that numerous companies decided to take all the money they could under letters of credit the banks had issued in better times. In some cases, the borrowers needed the money because they could no longer sell commercial paper. In others, they feared that unused lines of credit would be canceled.
After that surge, bank lending plunged. Banks tightened credit standards and, like many investors, became intolerant of any real risk.
In the third quarter of last year -- even after the recession had ended -- commercial and industrial loan volume fell at an annual rate of about 25 percent.
Now, however, the volume has stabilized, and it is even rising a bit.
That is not true of some other types of loans. Fed data indicates that commercial real estate loan volumes are down, and so are consumer loans. Some politicians point to such figures as evidence that bailed-out banks are not doing their duty to help the economy recover.
But those who like to bash banks might want to hesitate before complaining that banks are not lending enough. After all, this crisis -- and the recession that arrived with it -- was caused by banks lending too much, at credit standards that were too low.
What would we be saying if, say, JPMorgan's volume of outstanding option or ''pick a pay'' ARM's was rising instead of falling? (You remember those particular ARM's, don't you? They are the mortgages that let borrowers pay as little as they wished, with the loan balance rising every month if the minimum amount was paid. Washington Mutual specialized in such loans. There would be far fewer foreclosures if that product had never been invented, and a WaMu branch might still be on a corner near you.)
Overpaid and unrepentant bankers do deserve plenty of criticism. The foreclosure scandal is the latest evidence that banks acted irresponsibly. I suspect that we will eventually find little or no evidence that banks foreclosed on people who deserved to keep their homes. But there is plenty of evidence that banks cut corners in processing paperwork when this mess was being created, and that they did the same in an effort to cover up the problems when the loans went bad. Filing false court papers is serious, and there may be some bank lawyers who deserve to face criminal charges.
For the American economy, there are still plenty of problems. The Labor Department's monthly household survey found that 1.6 million more people were working in September than had jobs in December 2009, when the recent low in employment was reached.
Not only has that gain been painfully slow -- it represents about one-quarter of the jobs lost during the downturn -- but so far the gains have been concentrated in two groups -- younger workers between 20 and 34 years of age and older workers over 55.
The number of jobs held by workers between 35 and 54 -- traditionally the prime working years when people are supporting families -- has declined this year. There are now 5.5 million more Americans in that age group than there were 12 years ago, and about 500,000 fewer jobs.
Companies will start hiring, and wanting to borrow money to pay the workers and expand business, when they see demand from customers. There is some evidence that is happening (those who do have jobs are working more hours), but it may take more fiscal stimulus to get the economy moving.
But when -- or if -- demand does start to pick up, lending could rise quickly.
''Corporate America is in good financial shape,'' Mr. Dimon said this week. Many companies that have not borrowed are, he said, ''just waiting for more orders.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jamie Dimon, chief of JPMorgan Chase, stressed that loans to midsize companies rose 3 percent. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL FALCO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B5) CHART: RETURN TO LENDING: 13-week change in outstanding commercial and industrial loans, at annual rate. (Source: Federal Reserve via Haver Analytics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORPORATE DEBT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); LETTERS OF CREDIT (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BONDS (78%); EXECUTIVES (74%); COMPANY REVENUES (73%); BANK BRANCHES (73%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (96%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (54%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (96%); JPM (LSE) (96%); 8634 (TSE) (96%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (96%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (96%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (96%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (54%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (54%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2010



383 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1278 words

HEADLINE: For Tea Party, Sway Beyond Mere Numbers

BYLINE: By KATE ZERNIKE; Kitty Bennett and Archie Tse contributed research.

 BODY:
Enough Tea Party-supported candidates are running strongly in competitive and Republican-leaning Congressional races that the movement stands a good chance of establishing a sizable caucus to push its agenda in the House and the Senate, according to a New York Times analysis.
With a little more than two weeks till Election Day, 33 Tea Party-backed candidates are in tossup races or running in House districts that are solidly or leaning Republican, and 8 stand a good or better chance of winning Senate seats.
While the numbers are relatively small, they could exert outsize influence, putting pressure on Republican leaders to carry out promises to significantly cut spending and taxes, to repeal health care legislation and financial regulations passed this year, and to phase out Social Security and Medicare in favor of personal savings accounts.
Still, the bulk of the Tea Party candidates are running in districts that are solidly Democratic, meaning that most Tea Party efforts -- no matter how energetic -- are likely to register as basically a protest vote. 
An analysis of each House and Senate race found 138 Tea Party candidates, all Republicans, running for nearly half the Democratic or open seats in the House and a third of those in the Senate -- or, in the case of two Republican House incumbents, defending seats won with Tea Party backing in special elections earlier this year.
Tea Party nominees have performed better than expected in many cases, including races in which the establishment candidates they defeated in the primaries were considered the stronger general election contenders. This includes well-known nominees like Rand Paul, running for the Senate in Kentucky, as well as lesser-known candidates like Dan Benishek, running to replace a retiring House Democrat in Michigan.
But as establishment Republicans feared, the Tea Party has also handed opportunities to the Democrats by nominating candidates who have struggled.
This includes not just Christine O'Donnell, the Senate nominee in Delaware, but also candidates like Joe Walsh, running in a House district outside Chicago. In May, top campaign staff members quit after revelations that Mr. Walsh had lost a home to foreclosure, and accused him of bouncing checks, lying about fund-raising, failing to pay taxes and driving with a suspended license. In a district that has historically favored Republicans, his Democratic opponent is leading.
Still, it suggests the stubbornness of voter anger toward the establishment that several candidates, most first-time contenders, have remained viable despite revelations of extensive financial problems, domestic disputes or other apparent improprieties.
Of 129 Tea Party candidates for the House, 7 are running in solidly Republican districts -- all but one of those seats is now held by a Republican. Another 7 are running for seats currently held by Democrats but in districts leaning toward the Tea Party Republican.
Nineteen are in tossup races, for seats that are held, with the exception of two, by Democrats. And 29 are running for seats in districts that are leaning Democratic -- of those, only one is currently held by a Republican. Sixty-seven are challenging Democrats who are expected to win -- though this is a year when the unexpected has been more rule than exception.
In the Senate, there are 9 Tea Party candidates running for a potential of 27 seats -- not including those where the incumbent is the Republican nominee.
For purposes of the list, Tea Party candidates were those who had entered politics through the movement or who are receiving significant support from local Tea Party groups and who share the ideology of the movement. Many have been endorsed by groups like FreedomWorks or the Tea Party Express, or by conservative kingmakers like Sarah Palin and Senator Jim DeMint of South Carolina, but those endorsements alone were not enough to qualify as a Tea Party candidate.
The states with the highest concentration of Tea Party candidates are South Carolina, Massachusetts and Arizona. In South Carolina, this reflects the energy of the movement; in Massachusetts, where almost none of the candidates are expected to win, it reflects a historically weak Republican farm team.
Election handicappers have said for months that the test of the Tea Party would be whether its energy ended up hurting Republicans more than it helped, by leading to the selection of less viable candidates in the primaries.
Polls suggest that in the Senate, the hurt may outweigh the help. The four seats that are leaning or solidly Republican and feature Tea Party candidates were in Republican hands to begin with. Ms. O'Donnell's surprise upset of the establishment candidate in Delaware dashed Republican hopes for a seat that even Democrats had expected to lose. The Tea Party candidate in Nevada, Sharron Angle, has improved the odds that Senator Harry Reid, the leader of Democratic majority, hangs onto his seat. And having Rand Paul as their nominee has made the fight in Kentucky tougher than Republicans anticipated.
On the other hand, Ron Johnson, a plastics magnate with a libertarian bent and strong Tea Party support, has made Wisconsin an unexpected tossup. And Ken Buck, who was thought to be the weaker of two Republican primary candidates in Colorado, has kept that race competitive.
In the House, Tea Party candidates are allowing Democrats to poll well in a few districts where demographics and voting history suggest that Republicans should win -- the district that includes Tucson, the one north and west of Pittsburgh, and one in suburban Chicago.
For the most part, Tea Party candidates are doing well in areas where any Republican would be expected to do well. There does not appear to be any case where a Tea Party candidate has helped make a Democratic-leaning district more competitive for Republicans.
While there is no official Tea Party platform, candidates share a determination to repeal the health care legislation passed in March. They vow not only to permanently extend the tax cuts passed under President George W. Bush and to eliminate the estate tax, but also to replace the progressive income tax with a flat tax or a national sales tax. Several candidates advocate abolishing the Internal Revenue Service entirely.
Many have called for a balanced budget amendment. They oppose newly passed financial regulation, and oppose cap-and-trade of carbon emissions.
The candidates also promise to carry into office the Tea Party's strict interpretation of the Constitution.
Paul Gosar, a dentist who defeated several other candidates, including the 2008 nominee, to win the primary in a Republican-leaning district in Arizona, told an interviewer that ''adhering to the words of the founding fathers means putting the government role in the health care, the Department of Education, and yes, entitlements, all on the table for a constitutional examination.''
In a questionnaire for a Tea Party group, Steve Stivers, running for Congress in Ohio, said that only four departments -- Defense, Justice, State and Treasury -- perform ''constitutional roles,'' meaning ''you could eliminate the Departments of Agriculture, Education, Interior, Housing and Urban Development, Transportation, Energy and others to return to a constitutionally pure government.''
Many candidates -- Mr. Paul, in Kentucky, as well as many in the House races -- have embraced a pledge to require Congress to indicate how any new legislation is authorized in the Constitution, and contend that the Constitution does not authorize many of the things the federal government does now. Republicans picked up this idea in their Pledge to America agenda.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Faces of the Movement: While a few issues like smaller government bind most Tea Party candidates together, there are loose factions within the movement. Newcomers: Candidates brought into politics by the Tea Party movement.
Newly Energized: Candidates who have run in past years and are finding strong support this year because of their alignment with the Tea Party.
Conservatives: Candidates who have been helped by the movement, but describe themselves as conservative more than ''Tea Party'' candidates. They're more likely to talk about opposition to abortion rights than ''Atlas Shrugged.''
Constitutionalists: candidates who have embraced a strict interpretation of the Constitution as it was written, in some cases advocating the repeal of the 16th and 17 Amendments, which allowed the progressive income tax and the direct election of senators.
Libertarians: Candidates who emphasize individual liberties, embrace Austrian economics, love Ayn Rand.
Birthers: Candidates who have questioned whether President Obama was born in the United States.
On Second Thought . . . Robert Dold (Ill. 10) embraced the Tea Party in the primary, but was reported to have asked a Tea Party group to call him a ''moderate'' in its voter guide -- now that he is trying to win a general election in a moderate district.
Privatize It: Candidates who have advocated partly privatizing or phasing out Social Security and/or Medicare.
Off With Their Heads! Candidates have proposed getting rid of entire federal departments, believing them unnecessary or unconstitutional.
Smaller Government, But Not for Me
 In Hot Water: Candidates who have run into trouble for forced and unforced errors, ranging from unpaid taxes to allegations of sexual assault. (A20) MAPS: Where Tea Party Candidates Are Running: A survey by The Times of the 2010 Congressional races found candidates from the Tea Party movement in 129 of the 435 House races and 9 of the 37 Senate races. (A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (74%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (74%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); FUNDRAISING (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); DRIVERS LICENSE SUSPENSION & REVOCATION (60%); FORECLOSURE (60%); PERSONAL FINANCE (54%)

PERSON: RAND PAUL (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); ROBERT DOLD (58%); DAN BENISHEK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); AUSTRIA (59%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2010



384 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 543 words

HEADLINE: Mistake in Second Avenue Subway Work Cuts Gas Off

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

 BODY:
To the clatter, pedestrian obstacle course and store closings created by the Second Avenue subway project, add one more affliction for more than 100 families living on the East Side: no gas.
A valve on the gas line that feeds the George Washington Houses, a Housing Authority project at 1905 Second Avenue, was mistakenly turned off Oct. 6, leaving residents without the use of stoves or ovens.
The gas could not be turned back on until the gas lines in the building were inspected. They failed the inspection, meaning that the gas pipes in all the apartments had to be replaced. 
The Housing Authority, after being warned that it could take up to two months to get gas back into the apartments, issued two-burner hot plates to residents, so they could cook.
But on Thursday, in response to an inquiry about the problem, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, which is responsible for the shutdown, said the replacement work had been proceeding quickly, and gas could be restored as soon as Friday.
Many residents said the lack of gas had been a hardship. People on special diets have been cooking at relatives' homes or eating at restaurants, an expense many cannot afford.
Others are worried that the work will have to go on much longer.
Carolyn Jones, a home health care aide who has lived in the building for 18 years, said she planned to roast a turkey and bake other fixings for a Thanksgiving meal to which she has invited her 10 siblings, her mother and her four children. ''Who's going to cook a Thanksgiving dinner on a hot plate?'' she said.
Marguerite Holm, 45, a fashion stylist who has lived in the building for 10 years, says she is a vegetarian and has to roast her vegetables or bake other foods. She said she had been teaching her 19-year-old son to avoid fast foods and eat a healthy diet. But her reluctance to cook on the hot plate, she said, has been sending him out in search of an affordable meal, which has led him to McDonald's.
''I trained him to eat right, but with this situation, he is going back,'' she said.
Ms. Holm said many residents were on tight budgets and depended on food stamps, which they cannot use in restaurants.
Aaron Donovan, a spokesman for the transportation authority, said that a contractor on the subway project, Cruz/Tully Joint Venture, was responsible for accidentally turning off the gas.
Mr. Donovan said Cruz/Tully had agreed Thursday to give residents Visa gift cards, starting Friday. The value of the cards will range from $600 for apartments with one occupant to $1,200 for apartments with four or more persons. But if the gas is restored by Friday, the value will be adjusted, Mr. Donovan said.
Ms. Jones said she discovered the problem when she woke up on Oct. 7, started to make herself some tea ''and there was no gas.''
''I called a couple of neighbors,'' Ms. Jones said, ''and they didn't have gas either.''
Some of the hot plates given out did not work, residents said, and some people found them hard to use.
Among them is Flora Sanchez, 66, who has lived in the building since 1971. She has been visiting her mother and using her stove.
''I'm a diabetic, and I have high blood pressure and a cholesterol problem,'' she said. ''I do a lot of oven cooking, like broiling fish, and I can't use my oven.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Marguerite Holm in the kitchen of her apartment in the George Washington Houses, a city housing project on Second Avenue and 99th Street in Manhattan. The Housing Authority distributed hot plates to residents who could no longer use their stoves or ovens. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC MICHAEL JOHNSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS CLOSINGS (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FAMILY (89%); FAST FOOD (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); INSPECTIONS (75%); MEAT FREE DIETS (73%); NUTRITION (71%); THANKSGIVING (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2010



385 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 927 words

HEADLINE: Proving Poverty Could Be Problematic at Area Food Pantries

BYLINE: By SCOTT JAMES. 
Scott James is an Emmy-winning television journalist and novelist who lives in San Francisco. sjames@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
Scott James is a columnist for The Bay Citizen
Eduardo Giaconi, a volunteer, stood outside St. Gregory's of Nyssa Episcopal Church on Potrero Hill, as he does every Friday noontime, greeting people by name as they arrived for the weekly food pantry.
''They are good people,'' Mr. Giaconi said of the 1,200 households served each month, ''and they need it.'' 
But receiving free food could soon become more difficult in San Francisco. A controversial decision involving the United Way of the Bay Area would require those who patronize pantries to prove that they are poor.
The move has caused dismay in the community that serves the indigent, and has raised concerns about the local United Way's stewardship of a program financed by federal tax dollars. The plan could also be in conflict -- either in practice or in spirit -- with San Francisco's sanctuary law, which requires no-questions-asked services for illegal immigrants.
At issue is the Emergency Food and Shelter National Board Program, which is part of the Federal Emergency Management Agency. In many ways it is the aid of last resort, helping finance soup kitchens, shelters and food banks.
FEMA contracts with the United Way to administer the money, under the direction of local chapters and boards. In San Francisco, board members are from church groups and nonprofit organizations, including Catholic Charities and the Red Cross.
Last year, about $150,000 from the program went to dozens of San Francisco food pantries that are part of the Neighborhood Grocery Network. It is a modest sum compared to San Francisco's endemic homeless and poverty problems, but the money pays for a crucial piece of nutrition: proteins and breads, which are rare to find as donations.
The San Francisco Food Bank, which gathers food donations and distributes them to nonprofit groups, has matched pantries with FEMA financing for 11 years. But recently the United Way's local board decided to take direct control in order to ensure food only gets to the needy.
Local United Way leaders have said that they believe people are cheating the pantries.
''There's been a growing, frankly, misuse of the system'' with people receiving food from more than one pantry, Eric McDonnell, chief operating officer of the United Way of the Bay Area, said in a KPIX-TV news story.
Laura Escobar, the United Way's director for the program, said she had heard that commercial groceries had gone to pantries to ''get food and resell it at their stores.''
Neither Mr. McDonnell nor Ms. Escobar cited specific cases. A check with dozens of food bank operators found a consensus that fraud was not a problem. They say if families are going to multiple pantries, which is not against the rules, the explanation is simple: they are hungry.
Pantry operators said requests for food had doubled since the recession began, and requiring income verification would drain limited resources and raise practical concerns.
There is also the issue of illegal immigrants. In 1989, San Francisco became a sanctuary city, which means institutions cannot ask about immigration status as a condition for receiving city services or benefits. Some food banks receive city support -- raising concern that they would be breaking local law by following the United Way's directive.
''It's the trickle down from Arizona,'' said Beth Abrams, director of Grupo de la Comida, referring to the recent controversial crackdown on illegal immigrants.
The United Way's Ms. Escobar said, ''That is not the intent.''
FEMA said it had not requested the move toward income verification in San Francisco. Ms. Escobar said the local board issued the new guidelines, but she declined to give the names of board members, saying she needed to warn them first that a reporter might ask questions. Board members tracked down independently said they were instructed by Ms. Escobar not to speak about the matter.
Some people familiar with the situation say a type of turf battle has developed, pitting old ways of feeding the poor, like soup kitchens held at shelters with paid staff, against pantries, which tend to be run by volunteers and allow people to cook their own meals at home. FEMA spending on food banks has doubled since 2003, while money for soup kitchens has been cut 60 percent.
Sara Miles, executive director of The Food Pantry held at St. Gregory's, said the shift in financing ''challenges the social service monopoly that I suspect some would like to see restored in the city.''
Ms. Miles opposes income verification, and could lose $14,000 in FEMA financing under the new rules. However, the pantry's doors will remain open, because most of the mountains of fresh produce in the church sanctuary have been donated by others -- not via the United Way -- with no strings attached.
***
Postscript
A column last Friday shared the recollections of Barbara and Emily Hong about their family's relationship with John Lennon and Yoko Ono. As the column noted, their memories were ''viewed through the lens of childhood,'' when they were 8 and 9 years old. Barbara Hong said that when Mr. Lennon played ''Imagine'' for the girls, he told them it was ''a song I'm going to release soon.'' ''Imagine'' was released in 1971, before Mr. Lennon met the Hongs in 1972.
The column also related how Emily Hong believed an editor from Rolling Stone magazine introduced Mr. Lennon and Ms. Ono to Yuan Bain Hong, the girls' father and a practitioner of Chinese herbal medicine. The introduction was made by Craig Pyes, now a private investigator, who at the time was editor and publisher of SunDance magazine.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Food Pantry at St. Gregory of Nyssa Episcopal Church gives away more than six tons of food every Friday. (PHOTOGRAPH COURTESY OF THE FOOD PANTRY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD CHARITIES (92%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (92%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); RELIGION (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); WRITERS (78%); FAMILY (76%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (72%); EMERGENCY SHELTERS (72%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); CHARITIES (70%); NUTRITION (68%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (66%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (64%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2010



386 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 564 words

HEADLINE: 9/11 Workers Would Get $47 Million More in New Pact

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO

 BODY:
More than 9,000 ground zero workers eligible for a settlement of up to $712.5 million from the city over health claims now stand to get another $47 million in a separate settlement with the Port Authority.
The judge overseeing litigation by the workers, Alvin K. Hellerstein of United States District Court in Manhattan, said in an order issued Thursday that the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, owner of the World Trade Center, had tentatively agreed to settle the claims of 9,055 plaintiffs who sued the agency, along with the city and its contractors. The plaintiffs argued that the defendants had failed to ensure workers' safety during rescue and recovery operations at ground zero.
The judge wrote that the settlement, which still needs approval from the Port Authority's board of commissioners, was ''fair and reasonable.'' 
Port Authority officials said they had no comment on the settlement, but lawyers from the firm representing all of the affected plaintiffs said in a statement that they were ''elated.''
Meanwhile, more than 10,000 workers -- not all of them sued the Port Authority -- face a decision on whether to accept the far larger settlement with the city and its contractors by a Nov. 8 deadline. The 9,055 plaintiffs are free to opt into one and not the other, or accept or reject both.
Judge Hellerstein said the same criteria used to apportion the money in the bigger settlement would apply to the Port Authority agreement.
Plaintiffs reporting illnesses attributed to exposure to toxic dust and debris after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks would be grouped in four tiers, according to the type and severity of their injury. The Port Authority agreement calls for the first three tiers to receive fixed payments of $2,000, $2,500 and $3,000, respectively. Those with the worst injuries, in Tier 4, could receive ''tens of thousands of dollars,'' the plaintiffs' lawyers said.
''Clearly, this is additional compensation that has added a significant amount of money to our clients' settlement,'' said one of the lawyers, Marc J. Bern of the firm Napoli Bern Ripka.
In a letter to the judge, lawyers for the Port Authority said the board of commissioners was not expected to approve the agreement until the end of October. Plaintiffs would have 60 days to opt into the settlement, which would be valid only if 80 to 95 percent of the plaintiffs approved it, depending on the category of the claim.
So far, the Napoli Bern lawyers said, more than 75 percent of the workers have signed on to the bigger settlement with the city. The agreement requires 95 percent approval to become effective.
Some plaintiffs who have not yet decided whether to accept the deal with the city said the negotiation of the second settlement would have little bearing on their final decision.
''I look at it this way,'' said Candiace Baker, 42, a former police detective who has asthma and cancer. ''If with a settlement of $700 million, I'm offered $105,000, what is $47 million going to bring me -- $1,500?'' Ms. Baker, a single mother of three who recently moved to Florida, said neither amount was adequate to help her raise her children or deal with medical bills.
Congress is also considering legislation to set aside billions of dollars to monitor and treat the workers' respiratory illnesses and other medical problems and reopen a compensation fund for job and economic losses.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PORT AUTHORITIES (91%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LAWYERS (89%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); LITIGATION (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); APPROVALS (77%); JUDGES (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); TERRORISM (64%); AMBULANCE & RESCUE SERVICES (54%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%)

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (72%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2010



387 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 2283 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
Jazz
Full reviews of recent jazz concerts: nytimes.com/music.
- John Abercrombie Quartet (Friday and Saturday) As on ''The Third Quartet'' (ECM), an effortlessly fine album released a few years ago, the guitarist John Abercrombie works here with the violinist Mark Feldman, the bassist Marc Johnson and the drummer Joey Baron, finding solid ground amid shadowy terrain. At 8:30 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton , (212) 581-3080, birdlandjazz.com; $30 cover for side seating, $40 for center seating, with a $10 minimum. (Nate Chinen)20101014
- Apex: Rudresh Mahanthappa and Bunky Green (Friday through Sunday) Mr. Mahanthappa, an alto saxophonist with a searching intelligence and an incisive instrumental voice, recently established a collaborative rapport with Mr. Green, a fellow alto player more than 35 years his senior. Apex is their resulting group and the name of their album, out on Pi Recordings; its powerful rhythm section, resurfacing here, consists of Jason Moran on piano, Francois Moutin on bass and Damion Reid on drums. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., with an 11:30 set on Friday and Saturday, Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan , (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; $30, $25 on Sunday. (Chinen)20101014 
Michael Attias Spun Tree Five (Tuesday) Michael Attias, a saxophonist, has a strong sparring partner here in the trumpeter Ralph Alessi and an adaptable rhythm section in the pianist Russ Lossing, the bassist Sean Conly and the drummer Eric McPherson. The repertory seems likely to overlap slightly with that of ''Twines of Colesion'' (Clean Feed), Mr. Attias's new album, on which Mr. Lossing appears. At 8 p.m., the Stone, Avenue C and Second Street, East Village , thestonenyc.com; $10. (Chinen)20101014
Thurman Barker Sound Trio / Steve and Iqua Colson Quartet (Friday) The New York chapter of the Association for the Advancement of Creative Musicians presents one of its perennial concerts, featuring two ensembles led by longstanding members: the drummer Thurman Barker, whose career has spanned soul and musical theater as well as improvised music; and the husband-and-wife team of Steve Colson, a pianist, and Iqua Colson, a vocalist, who this year released an intriguing album together, ''The Untarnished Dream'' (Silver Sphinx). At 8 p.m., Community Church of New York, 40 East 35th Street, Manhattan , aacm-newyork.com; $30, students $15. (Chinen)20101014
Kenny Barron (Friday through Sunday) Mr. Barron is the leading practitioner of an elegant, economical and sure-footed piano style that thrives in any mainstream setting. He leads a quartet featuring the hard-driving tenor saxophonist David Sanchez, the bassist Kiyoshi Kitagawa and the drummer Johnathan Blake. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., with an 11:30 set on Friday and Saturday, Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway , (212) 258-9595, jalc.org; $30 to $35 cover, with a minimum of $10 at tables, $5 at the bar. (Chinen)20101014
Jerry Bergonzi Quartet (Friday and Saturday) A tenor player firmly ensconced in the post-Coltrane continuum, Jerry Bergonzi enjoys near-mythical stature among his students and peers in Boston, and near obscurity most everywhere else. He put out an excellent trio album this year, ''Three for All'' (Savant); here he departs from the trio format to lead a group with the pianist Bruce Barth. At 8 and 10 p.m., Kitano Hotel, 66 Park Avenue, at 38th Street , (212) 885-7119, kitano.com; $25 cover, with a $15 minimum. (Chinen)20101014
Jane Ira Bloom Trio (Sunday) Textural abstraction has always been a sound improvisational strategy for Jane Ira Bloom, an accomplished soprano saxophonist. She seems likely to combine it with an undercurrent of groove in this trio with Mark Helias on bass and Bobby Previte on drums. At 8:30 p.m., Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, West Village , (212) 989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com; $10 cover, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)20101014
- Gary Burton New Quartet (Tuesday through Thursday) Mr. Burton, the esteemed vibraphonist, educator and composer, has been working on and off for the last five years with Julian Lage, a young guitarist whose summery proficiency complements his own. They form the frontline in this touring group, which made its debut this summer and features the astute and flexible rhythm team of Scott Colley on bass and Antonio Sanchez on drums. (Through Oct. 24.) At 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, Greenwich Village , (212) 475-8592, bluenote.net; $30 cover at tables, $20 at the bar, with a $5 minimum. (Chinen)20101014
- Regina Carter's Reverse Thread (Wednesday) Ms. Carter, one of the most charismatic violinists in jazz, has explored timbres both rustic and urbane throughout her career. Her current preoccupation -- and the promising subject of her most recent album, ''Reverse Thread'' (E1) -- is folkloric music of Africa. She draws from that material here, in a group that includes Yacouba Sissoko on kora, Will Holshouser on accordion, Chris Lightcap on bass and Alvester Garnett on drums. At 9 p.m., Zankel Hall, Carnegie Hall , (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $38 and $48. (Chinen)20101014
Bill Charlap Trio (Friday through Sunday, Tuesday through Thursday) The pianist Bill Charlap, the bassist Peter Washington and the drummer Kenny Washington make up this neatly functional trio, which favors a crisp approach to standard songbook fare. As was the case in each of the last few years, the band settles in for a two-week run. (Through Oct. 24.) At 9 and 11 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village , (212) 255-4037, villagevanguard.com; $25 cover, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)20101014
Avishai Cohen (Saturday) Mr. Cohen, the Israeli bassist, favors rustling polyrhythm in his music, which draws from Middle Eastern traditions, often with instruments like the oud and frame drum. On a new album, ''Aurora'' (Emd Int'l), he also steps out as a vocalist; he'll do the same here. At 8 p.m., Winter Garden, World Financial Center, West Street, south of Vesey Street, Lower Manhattan , (212) 945-0505, artsworldfinancialcenter.com; free. (Chinen)20101014
The Cookers (Friday and Saturday) This hard-bop wrecking crew has a new album, ''Warriors'' (Jazz Legacy), that accurately captures its forward-plunging energy, though not as vividly as in performance. The lineup here, as on the album, includes Eddie Henderson on trumpet, Billy Harper on tenor saxophone, George Cables on piano and Billy Hart on drums. At 8 and 10 p.m., Iridium Jazz Club, 1650 Broadway, at 51st Street , (212) 582-2121, iridiumjazzclub.com; $30 cover, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)20101014
Tia Fuller Quartet (Tuesday and Wednesday) The saxophonist Tia Fuller has developed her solo career in between tours with Beyonce, with promising results so far. She leads a band with several of the musicians featured on her sophomore album, ''Decisive Steps'' (Mack Avenue): her sister, the pianist Shamie Royston; Ms. Royston's husband, the drummer Rudy Royston; and the bassist Mimi Jones. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan , (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; $20. (Chinen)20101014
Wycliffe Gordon Sextet (Friday) The trombonist Wycliffe Gordon seeks boundless joy and ebullience in his music, and here he leads an ensemble with a clear repertory focus: the music of the 1920s and '30s, when swing was an ascendant force. At 8 p.m., Flushing Town Hall, 137-35 Northern Boulevard, Queens , (718) 463-7700, flushingtownhall.org; $40, $32 for members, $20 for students. (Chinen)20101014
Sameer Gupta's Namaskar (Tuesday) As he does on ''Namaskar'' (Motema), his new album, the percussionist Mr. Gupta explores a personal fusion of modern jazz and ancient Indian music, with help from the pianist Marc Cary. Rounding out the ensemble here are Rashaan Carter on bass, Neel Murgai on sitar and Arun Ramamurthy on violin. At 7:30 p.m., Harlem Stage at the Gatehouse, 150 Convent Avenue, at West 135th Street , (212) 281-9240, harlemstage.org; free. (Chinen)20101014
- Jazz Meets Clave (Thursday) Right on the heels of a visit to Cuba, Wynton Marsalis and the Jazz at Lincoln Center Orchestra headline a three-night Afro-Cuban festival, tackling music by the likes of Machito and Mario Bauza in the Rose Theater. Next week, on Oct. 22 and 23, the unstoppable Cuban pianist Chucho Valdes will hold court in the Allen Room, with his own band. Tickets will go fast, if they haven't already. (Through Oct. 23.) At 8 p.m., Rose Theater, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway , (212) 721-6500, jalc.org; $30 to $120. (Chinen)20101014
Jane Monheit (Tuesday through Thursday) Ms. Monheit is a jazz singer of kittenish temperament, at her best radiating contentment or innocent yearning. The title of ''Home'' (Emarcy), her 10th album, refers to the standard songbook and her relationship to it; she'll draw from a similar wellspring here, with her crisp working band. (Through Oct. 23.) At 8:30 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton , (212) 581-3080, birdlandjazz.com; $30 cover for side seating, $40 for center seating, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)20101014
- Danilo Perez Trio / Poncho Sanchez and his Latin Band (Saturday) The inventive Panamanian pianist Danilo Perez has a new album, ''Providencia'' (Mack Avenue), that pushes his idea of a pan-global progressivism, bursting with rhythmic energy. He leads a sturdy and intuitive working trio, with Ben Street on bass and Adam Cruz on drums; joining them in concert is the conguero and veteran bandleader Poncho Sanchez, with a more idiomatic take on Latin jazz. At 7:30 p.m., New Jersey Performing Arts Center, 1 Center Street , (888) 466-5722, njpac.org; $36 and $39. (Chinen)20101014
Noah Preminger Quartet (Monday) Mr. Preminger, a clear-eyed and self-assured young tenor saxophonist, presents a mixed program of Ornette Coleman music and songs from his forthcoming second album, ''Before the Rain'' (Palmetto); his quartet features Frank Kimbrough on keyboards, Joe Martin on bass and Matt Wilson on drums. At 10 and 11:30 p.m., 55 Bar, 55 Christopher Street, West Village , (212) 929-9883, 55bar.com; $10 cover, with a two-drink minimum. (Chinen)20101014
Alvin Queen Sextet (Thursday) The drummer Alvin Queen, a well-traveled sideman whose profile on the jazz circuit has been sporadic since he moved to Switzerland nearly 30 years ago, makes a United States appearance with a muscular hard-bop band. His cohort includes the guitarist Melvin Sparks and the Hammond B-3 organist Leon Spencer, as well as the tenor saxophonist Javon Jackson and the trumpeter Joe Magnarelli. (Through Oct. 24.) At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan , (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; $25. (Chinen)20101014
Respect Sextet (Thursday) This smartly rambunctious collective has a new album, ''Farcical Built for Six'' (Roister), that highlights its brashly pan-stylistic approach to jazz. The group -- Eli Asher on trumpet, James Hirschfeld on trombone, Josh Rutner on reeds, Red Wierenga on keyboards, Malcolm Kirby on bass and Ted Poor on drums -- will be kicking off the season of the North River Music Series at Greenwich House Music School. At 8 p.m., Greenwich House Music School, 46 Barrow Street, West Village , (212) 242-4770; $15, $10 for students. (Chinen)20101014
David Sanborn Quartet (Friday through Sunday) David Sanborn, an alto saxophonist synonymous with unctuously gleaming crossover fare, has lately been returning to his roots: the piquant soul-jazz of Hank Crawford and, by extension, Ray Charles. ''Only Everything'' (Decca) is his respectful salute to Charles, featuring a valuable assist from the Hammond B-3 organist Joey DeFrancesco, who reprises his role here. At 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, Greenwich Village , (212) 475-8592, bluenote.net; $50 cover at tables, $35 at the bar, with a $5 minimum. (Chinen)20101014
Tyshawn Sorey Quartet (Saturday) Tyshawn Sorey can play the drums with gale-force physicality, but also a sense of scale and equipoise. He has lately been focused on composition, and here he presents a new work, ''Acts,'' for a quartet that includes the cornetist Taylor Ho Bynum, the saxophonist Aaron Stewart and the pianist John Escreet. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village , (212) 242-1063, jazzgallery.org; $20, $10 for members. (Chinen)20101014
George Wein and the Newport All-Stars (Tuesday through Thursday) Mr. Wein, founder of the Newport Jazz Festival and a number of its offshoots, turned 85 this month, which marks this engagement as a celebration. Leading from the piano, he'll present the latest edition of his Newport All-Stars, which deserves the name: Randy Brecker on trumpet, Lew Tabackin on tenor saxophone and flute, Howard Alden on guitar, Rufus Reid on bass and Lewis Nash on drums. (Through Oct. 24.) At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway , (212) 258-9595, jalc.org; $30 cover, with a minimum of $10 at tables, $5 at the bar. (Chinen)20101014
Ben Williams and Sound Effect (Friday) Mr. Williams, the bassist who won last year's Thelonious Monk International Jazz Competition, has recently stepped forward as a bandleader; for Sound Effect, a group in the postbop mainstream, he enlists the alto saxophonist Jaleel Shaw, the guitarist Gilad Hekselman, the pianist Gerald Clayton and the drummer Justin Brown. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village , (212) 242-1063, jazzgallery.org; $20, $10 for members. (Chinen)20101014

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: REGINA CARTER'S REVERSE THREAD: (Wednesday) Regina Carter, above, one of the most charismatic violinists in jazz, has explored timbres both rustic and urbane throughout her career. Her current preoccupation -- and the promising subject of her most recent album, ''Reverse Thread'' (E1) -- is folkloric music of Africa. She draws from that material here, in a group that includes Yacouba Sissoko on kora, Will Holshouser on accordion, Chris Lightcap on bass and Alvester Garnett on drums. At 9 p.m., Zankel Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org
 $38 and $48. (Nate Chinen) (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHEW MURPHY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (91%); JAZZ & BLUES (90%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); RECORD RELEASES (89%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (89%); MUSIC REVIEWS (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); MUSICAL THEATER (73%); THEATER (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2010



388 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
10 P.M. (TruTV) CONSPIRACY THEORY WITH JESSE VENTURAStirring up suspicions with the tag line ''You won't believe what you don't know,'' Mr. Ventura, above, the former professional wrestler and Minnesota governor, returns for a second season of investigating secrets, lies and cover-ups.
7:30 P.M. (CNBC) YOUR TAXES, YOUR VOTE: COUNTDOWN TO THE ELECTION In three reports shown on consecutive Fridays, John Harwood, CNBC's chief Washington correspondent and a reporter for The New York Times, will visit battleground states to discuss the election's biggest issues: taxes, jobs, the economy and the Tea Party. 
8 P.M. (CMT) DALLAS COWBOYS CHEERLEADERS: MAKING THE TEAM In this Season 5 premiere, more than 600 women with dreams of making the 2010-11 Dallas Cowboys cheerleading squad assemble for tryouts at the new Cowboys Stadium in Arlington, Tex. Only 96 women will advance to the semifinal rounds. Among the incentives: gazing at their own images on the stadium's 60-yard-long LED display screens. In the second-season premiere of ''World's Strictest Parents,'' at 9, unruly teenagers discover there are consequences for skipping chores and breaking rules down on the farm.
8 P.M. (National Geographic) DOG WHISPERER Jaime Crossman found her dog, Chloe, a border collie-greyhound mix, on Craigslist. Ms. Crossman soon discovered that Chloe disliked other dogs -- intensely -- so she enrolled her in obedience school. It didn't work. Whenever Chloe realizes her target is out of reach, she turns on her owner, biting Ms. Crossman's legs. Now Ms. Crossman's friends have pooled their money to fly her and Chloe from Boston to Cesar Millan's Dog Psychology Center in Los Angeles.
8 P.M. (CBS) MEDIUM Tensions escalate between Allison (Patricia Arquette) and Scanlon (David Cubitt) when she finds a link between his dead brother and the murder of a missing girl. Tom Wopat guest stars as the sheriff who seeks Allison's help with the investigation. In ''CSI: NY,'' at 9, Mac (Gary Sinise) asks a gang founder (Edward James Olmos) he put behind bars years earlier for help in finding the killer of a gang leader before a street war breaks out. And in ''Blue Bloods,'' at 10, Frank (Tom Selleck) mobilizes the New York Police Department to find out who killed an off-duty cop during a diamond heist. Jennifer Esposito guest stars as a detective on the case.
8 P.M. (CW) SMALLVILLE In this 200th episode Clark (Tom Welling) attends his high school reunion and receives a visit from Brainiac (James Marsters, near right, with Mr. Welling), who reveals information about Clark's and future.
8:30 P.M. (13) NEED TO KNOW In cooperation with The Washington Post, this newsmagazine examines whether a plan intended by Congress to promote the welfare of disadvantaged and disenfranchised indigenous Alaskans has instead enriched nonnative executives and shortchanged taxpayers. Also, Davis Guggenheim, the director of ''Waiting for 'Superman,' '' discusses the American education system. And the pollster Nate Silver explains how to interpret the numbers.
9 P.M. (BBC America) LAW & ORDER: UK The murder of a former police officer leads Detective Superintendents Brooks (Bradley Walsh) and Devlin (Jamie Bamber) on a chase through the seamier side of London as they track down a suspect. But in court the accused argues that he killed in self-defense. Now it's up to Senior Crown Prosecutor Steel (Ben Daniels) to deliver justice.
10 P.M. (ABC) 20/20 On June 28, 2000, Leah Freeman, 15, disappeared from Coquille, Ore. That August her decomposed body was found nine miles from her home -- the result, the police said, of ''homicidal violence.'' No one was charged in the case. Now there is a new sheriff in town who has made it his goal to find Ms. Freeman's killer with the help of the Vidocq Society, a group of ace detectives from around the world who consider themselves the heirs of Sherlock Holmes.
10 P.M. (Syfy) SANCTUARY This Season 3 opener finds Dr. Helen Magnus (Amanda Tapping) risking her life as a tidal wave races toward the coast of Mumbai, India, and Wexford (Paul McGillion) once again tries to kill the creature known as Big Bertha.
10 P.M. (A&E) TEACH: TONY DANZA Mr. Danza, the actor turned 10th-grade English teacher, is asked by the mayor of Philadelphia to host a charity show on a night when Mr. Danza is already booked to perform in Atlantic City. KATHRYN SHATTUCK

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY HOPPER STONE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (88%); DOGS (86%); MURDER (77%); PET CARE SERVICES (77%); SHERIFFS (76%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (74%); SPORTS (74%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (74%); WRESTLING (72%); HIGH SCHOOLS (71%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (71%); POLICE FORCES (70%); LIGHT EMITTING DIODES (66%); MONITORS & DISPLAYS (52%)

COMPANY: CRAIGSLIST INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: DALLAS COWBOYS (91%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2010



389 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: Big Fish and Fresh Cash at London Fair

BYLINE: By KATE TAYLOR

 BODY:
LONDON -- The contradictions of the art world, as well as of the current economic moment, were in full view as the Frieze Art Fair began here in Regent's Park on Wednesday. Despite what some called a more thoughtful, less flashy mood than during the boom years, a Damien Hirst fish-in-formaldehyde installation brought $5.6 million, according to his London gallery.
The Hirst sold before the fair opened ''at the asking price of $:3.5 million,'' Tom Hale of the gallery, White Cube, said, in terms more often used for real estate than art. The symbol of the art market when it was hot, Mr. Hirst has more lately been the symbol for the art market's declining prices and investments gone bad. His work brought more than $270 million at auction in 2008; The Economist recently reported that in 2009 that number dropped to $19 million. 
But the fish, from 2006, apparently bucked the trend. Amanda Sharp, one of the fair's directors, said the Hirst sale ''may be the highest price point of any work ever achieved at Frieze.''
While Frieze habitues said there were fewer Americans at the fair than in previous years, there was clearly an influx of buyers from Asia and the countries of the former Soviet Union. The Hirst was bought by an Asian collector, Bloomberg News reported.
Since its first year, 2003, Frieze has been known more for the quality and freshness of the art, and the high standard of the talks and other events surrounding the fair, than for high-priced sales. It is a focal point of the London art calendar, with museums and galleries coordinating openings of major shows around the fair.
''Out of all the art fairs it's got the most cultural capital,'' said Simon Preston, a British-born dealer with a gallery on the Lower East Side of Manhattan. ''It doesn't feel like you're coming here to do a trade show.''
The directors and founders of the fair, Ms. Sharp and Matthew Slotover, encourage ambitious presentations. There is a prize for the best booth, awarded this year to the Sadie Coles HQ gallery, whose booth included work by Rudolf Stingel, Elizabeth Peyton, Sarah Lucas, Urs Fischer and Sam Durant. Ms. Coles said that she had sold the Stingel painting for $300,000 and all three Elizabeth Peyton monotypes, two for $30,000 each and one for $35,000, among other works.
As at some other art fairs there are also works commissioned by the organizers. This year several of those ''Frieze Projects'' have an element of performance, among them Annika Strom's ''Ten Embarrassed Men,'' a group of 10 performers walking around the fair, being embarrassed, in the artist's conception, by the paltry representation of women in art fairs.
Last year Frieze inaugurated a new section called Frame, where galleries in existence for less than six years can apply to show new work by a single artist. The selection process was overseen this year by Cecilia Alemani, the former director of the X Initiative in New York, and Daniel Baumann, the lead curator of the 2013 Carnegie International art show in Pittsburgh. Mr. Baumann said that 236 galleries applied for 25 slots. Once the selections were made, the curators worked closely with the dealers and the artists as the projects progressed.
The galleries in Frame come from all over the world, including India, China, Japan and Mexico. And while many of the artists represented are in their 20s, Mr. Baumann and Ms. Alemani were also interested in showing older artists who have been forgotten or overlooked. As Mr. Baumann put it, Frame is about looking at the future of art, and ''the future is not reserved for the young.''
So the Andreiana Mihail Gallery from Bucharest showed paintings from the 1960s and '70s by Ion Grigorescu, 65, who was prevented from exhibiting his work during the dictatorship of Nicolae Ceausescu. And Nanzuka Underground, a gallery from Tokyo, showed paintings and sculptures by the 74-year-old Japanese pop artist Keiichi Tanaami.
Until recently Mr. Tanaami, a friend of Andy Warhol's, was mostly known in Japan as a graphic designer and the first art director of the Japanese version of Playboy. His work, like the younger Takashi Murakami's, is filled with Western pop cultural and manga-derived images, but Mr. Tanaami also uses images of skulls and other motifs that evoke the horrors of World War II. ''Tanaami is one of the missing pieces'' for understanding the history of postwar Japanese art, said Shinji Nanzuka, the director of the gallery.
Dealers were generally upbeat about sales. David Zwirner said he had had a very good first day, selling a Luc Tuymans painting, ''Evidence,'' for $850,000, and works by other gallery artists.
He said some of his American clients decided not to come to Frieze this year. ''I think their friends will tell them they missed out,'' he said.
Others also noted that fewer Americans had made the trip, although Steven A. Cohen, the hedge fund manager and mega-collector, who seldom attends art fairs, was here early Wednesday. Others from the New York art world included Ari Wiseman, the deputy director of the Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation, who had brought a group of Guggenheim trustees to London; Klaus Biesenbach, the director of MoMAP.S. 1; and Lauren Ross, the curator of art projects on the High Line.
''The Brazilians are out in force, as are the Koreans and Indians,'' Mr. Hale of White Cube said. ''Also the Ukrainians and Russians.'' With newly acquired wealth, he continued, they were now seeking, in buying art, what he called ''soft power.'' For Mr. Hirst and his dealers they're just in time.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sarah Lucas's ''Nud Cycladic'' sculptures
 on the wall behind is Rudolf Stingel's ''Untitled.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY LINDA NYLIND/FRIEZE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); ART COLLECTING (90%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); AUCTIONS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ART DEALERS (76%); TRENDS (76%); PRICE CHANGES (74%); TRADE SHOWS (61%); ALDEHYDES (56%)

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (67%) NEW YORK, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2010



390 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 351 words

HEADLINE: House Tour: Barrytown, N.Y.

BYLINE: By BETHANY LYTTLE

 BODY:
WHAT Three-bedroom Greek Revival house
WHERE In Dutchess County, about 109 miles from New York City.
WHO Melissa Weaver, 46, and her husband, Alon Koppel, 39, who own FusionLab, a multimedia design firm in Manhattan, talk about what sold them on a run-down Greek Revival. 
MS. WEAVER: We were determined to find a place within two hours of the city and we were determined to get a good price. When we saw Barrytown on a map, we looked at each other and said, 'What's that?' So off we went. As we arrived, the sun was just setting, and, being March, there were no leaves on the trees so the light and sparkle of the river seemed to dance behind the wonderful estates and historic buildings here. No houses were for sale, though.
MR. KOPPEL: But most of the pictures we took that day were of the parklike area across from this house. About a month later, Melissa discovered it was on the market. We rushed here, but what a disappointment! Not only was it semiabandoned, but it was covered in vinyl siding and had been updated in all the wrong ways. 'No, no,' we said. 'This is not for us.' Then we stepped onto the porch. Looking across the land at the weeping willows and terraced rock walls, we completely caved.
MS. WEAVER: For the first year, we didn't even unpack. We just lived on the porch. We'd eat out there, work out there, photograph from there, even sleep there. Then, just like clockwork, the moment we started to unpack, the mechanicals began to go. The water pump in the well broke. The boiler went. The water heater gave out. The chimney crumbled.
MR. KOPPEL: And so did the economy. So all our wonderful design plans and architectural drawings are still hanging on the wall.
MS. WEAVER: But that's just fine for now. The rectilinear form of the house makes it feel like a great big box of light. And from the windows and porch, we can see an estate that was once owned by Gore Vidal. Local lore says that he regretted selling it and for years was haunted by dreams of walking to the post office up the road only to hear the postmaster murmur, 'I knew you would return.' We take this as a cautionary tale.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, the living room of Alon Koppel and Melissa Weaver's home in the Hudson Valley. The house, top, was ''semiabandoned'' when the couple first saw it, but the sight of weeping willows from the porch clinched the deal. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KELLY SHIMODA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); MULTIMEDIA SOFTWARE (72%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2010



391 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 932 words

HEADLINE: Thrills More Boardroom Than Bedroom

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY

 BODY:
Risky behavior is the organizing principle of ''Mad Men,'' an immorality play built around those bad habits of the 1960s that we now try to abjure: drinking, smoking, promiscuity, and racial and sexual prejudice.
And the fourth season, which comes to a close on Sunday on AMC, wallowed in the ugly consequences. Don Draper (Jon Hamm), no longer so suave, drank and smoked until he got sick, staggering around his office with vomit stains on his shirt. An office manager's night of adulterous passion put her in an abortionist's office. A bohemian artist who enjoyed free love with Don in Season 1 was ready to sell herself to him in Season 4 to support her heroin addiction. The button-down executive who dared to flaunt his love for a black cocktail waitress was beaten by his own father. 
All these downers couldn't be helped, really. When a seductively dark show gets into a fourth season, there is no place to go but down and darker still.
Yet a livelier drumbeat lightened all that bleak melodrama about a blighted era tumbling out of control. And that was, of all things, office work: the chances that Don and his colleagues at Sterling Cooper Draper Pryce took to succeed in the cutthroat and volatile world of advertising.
And even more than the mid-60s allure -- Eero Saarinen chairs, Beatlemania, hair-sprayed flips -- it's the water-cooler brinkmanship that makes ''Mad Men'' so unusual and so engrossing.
Particularly now, in this recessionary era of telecommuting, work-life balance and freelance assignments, corporate ambition and company loyalty are a faded memory, if not a joke. ''Mad Men'' channels an earlier ethos when the rat race still felt like an open competition. This season, even more than last, the show became a workplace drama in which promotions, pink slips and client meetings were packed with emotion and suspense.
Most serious shows feel the need to raise the stakes of employment to matters of life and death. It's why ''House'' is set in a hospital, not a dentist's office; ''The Good Wife'' celebrates criminal defense lawyers, not accountants; and ''The West Wing'' showcased the White House, not a California congressional district.
Workplace comedies, on the other hand, are a pillar of television. Sitcoms like ''The Dick Van Dyke Show,'' ''Cheers'' and ''The Office'' mine the humor of staff meetings and annual retreats precisely because they are so amusingly unimportant. Even cable dramas that defy network rules cling to extreme scenarios. ''Dexter,'' after all, is about a serial killer, and the protagonists on ''The Big C'' and ''Breaking Bad'' have terminal cancer.
Little that happens in Don's office in the Time & Life Building is a matter of life and death, not even the demise of his secretary, Miss Blankenship (Randee Heller), who collapsed face first on her desk. ''She died like she lived,'' Roger Sterling (John Slattery) muttered. ''Surrounded by the people she answered phones for.''
That death was put in not for poignancy but as a fillip of comic relief in an episode fraught with tension over the Fillmore Auto Parts account and a leftist writer who rattles Peggy (Elisabeth Moss) with a denunciation of the advertising business entitled ''Nuremberg on Madison Avenue.''
''Mad Men'' finds all kinds of drama in a gray flannel ecosphere.
The most shocking moment so far, perhaps more shattering even than the assassination of President Kennedy last season, pivoted on the defection of the firm's main client, Lucky Strike.
It was so momentous a loss that Pete Campbell (Vincent Kartheiser) left the maternity ward while his wife was in labor to deal with the calamity. The partners of Sterling Cooper Draper Pryce summoned the entire staff for an announcement as somber as a declaration of war. Don was asked to add a reassuring word to the troops.
''We're going to push ourselves shoulder to shoulder,'' he said grimly. ''And it will be exhilarating.''
And actually, it was. The more interesting developments this season didn't happen in the bar or the bedroom, but in the conference room and at the drafting table. Roger Sterling's insouciance slipped for once. He fought the firm's efforts to woo Honda out of loyalty to his comrades who died in the Pacific during World War II. Don came up with a Potemkin television commercial that tricked a rival firm into spending vital resources. And the high point may well be his shoot-the-moon strategy to finesse the Lucky Strike blow.
And the best relationships in that contentious and unforgiving world were forged in office crises. Pete, who began the series as a Sammy Glick opportunist, manned up this season and took the blame for losing a defense industries account to protect Don's secret past.
Even Don's big romance this season was a work thing: he got involved with Dr. Faye Miller (Cara Buono), a smoothly competent market research consultant. Her allure is two-fold -- she's a smart, beautiful blonde and can throw accounts his way.
Don's real best friend is an employee, Peggy, a former secretary whom he didn't sleep with but did promote to copywriter. They quarrel about ad copy but share a deep bond forged in protecting each other's secrets. And they both live for their work. Even though she is still fighting through a thick wall of office sexism, Peggy's love of the business keeps trumping her efforts to find true love.
''I know what I'm supposed to want,'' Peggy told Don after her boyfriend dumped her for choosing to spend her birthday working on the Samsonite account. ''But it just never feels right or as important as anything in that office.''
And this season, she was right.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Doing business the ''Mad Men'' way, from left: Jon Hamm, Robert Morse, John Slattery, Vincent Kartheiser, Sab Shimono and Keisuke Hoashi. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL YARISH/AMC) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMOKING (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (77%); RACE & RACISM (77%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (75%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); WORK-LIFE BALANCE (73%); HEROIN (69%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (67%); TELECOMMUTING (66%); MURDER (65%); HOMICIDE (65%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (63%); LAWYERS (63%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (67%)

TITLE: Mad Men (TV Program)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2010



392 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 861 words

HEADLINE: Plug-In Cars Pose Riddle For E.P.A.

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY and BILL VLASIC

 BODY:
DETROIT -- About two months before two new plug-in cars go on sale in the United States, the federal government is struggling with how to rate the fuel economy of mass-market plug-in vehicles.
How the Environmental Protection Agency rates the two cars, the Chevrolet Volt and Nissan Leaf, could have a big influence on consumers' perceptions of vehicles that run on electricity. General Motors, which makes the Volt, and Nissan are anxiously awaiting the agency's decision as they start production of the cars and complete marketing plans for rollouts in December. 
Providing the customary city and highway miles-per-gallon information would make little sense for the Volt, which can drive 25 to 50 miles on battery power before its gas engine kicks on, and even less so for the Leaf, which is powered by only a rechargeable battery.
Cathy Milbourn, a spokeswoman for the E.P.A., declined to specify a date when the new ratings might be released, saying only that they would come ''shortly.''
The Volt and Leaf must be rated by the E.P.A. and have those ratings shown on window labels before they are sold.
Both Nissan and G.M. are in discussions with the agency about what the fuel economy information on the window stickers of new vehicles will state, company officials said. But they said they were in the dark about the outcome and its timing.
''We don't have an official position on what they should do,'' said Brian Brockman, a Nissan spokesman. ''We expect there will be some form of 'equivalency rating,' like how many miles the Leaf can get per the number of kilowatt hours charged.''
Thomas G. Stephens, G.M.'s vice chairman for global product operations, said that he expected the agency to determine multiple fuel-economy figures for the Volt, based on the distance driven between battery charges.
''Right now it looks like there's going to be a lot on the label,'' Mr. Stephens said. ''They're trying to figure out what are all the variables that customers are going to see out there.''
The E.P.A. has proposed changing the labels on all new cars, including the possibility of assigning an overall letter grade, in part to address the issue of electric and hybrid vehicles. But the proposal would not take effect until the automakers' 2012 models. In the meantime, Ms. Milbourn said, the agency was trying to determine ''the appropriate information that will go on the 2011 model year label.''
Ms. Milbourn said the agency would use its standard highway and city testing procedures on the Volt. Since 2008, the agency has been using a battery of five test drives that cover a total distance of 43.9 miles.
Pam Fletcher, G.M.'s chief engineer for the Volt's powertrain, said she expected multiple tests to capture ratings with the battery in various states of charge. The testing takes two days for a typical vehicle but seven days for the Volt, she said.
''There are going to be new and unique numbers to classify the new and unique behavior of this car,'' Ms. Fletcher said. ''We need to talk about electricity usage and we need to talk about gasoline usage and we need to figure out the best way to do that.''
Ms. Fletcher said she expected the Volt's window label to at least show a miles-per-gallon equivalency rating for the car when it ran on battery power, as well as a more traditional rating to measure the engine's efficiency after the battery was drained. In the latter situation, the car should get ''some kind of combined fuel economy that's in the mid- to upper 30s,'' she said.
G.M. has said the Volt, which has a 9.3-gallon gas tank, would have about a 310-mile range on a depleted battery, which calculates to 33.3 miles per gallon.
A year ago, G.M. announced to widespread skepticism that it expected the Volt to earn a city rating of 230 miles per gallon based on a draft proposal for new testing procedures. Nissan later calculated the Leaf, using the same method, at 367 miles per gallon. (The vehicle with the highest E.P.A. rating is the Toyota Prius, with 51 miles per gallon in city driving.) The E.P.A. later rejected the formula that resulted in the two estimates.
The Volt became a source of debate this week among some automotive reviewers who test-drove it. Some accused G.M. of lying about the Volt's design after the company revealed that in some situations -- such as at high speeds after the battery has been drained -- the gas engine helps propel the car's wheels, much like a traditional hybrid car.
For years, G.M. described the Volt as an electric car in which gasoline powers a generator, not the wheels.
Mr. Stephens said G.M. had not previously disclosed that detail for competitive reasons until it received a patent on the design, which happened in September.
The questions raised about the Volt's hybrid credentials are not expected to weigh heavily on potential buyers, said one auto analyst who attended the test-drive in Detroit.
''It might matter to some techno-geeks, but not to anybody else,'' said Joseph Phillippi of the firm Auto Trends Consulting in Short Hills, N.J.
The E.P.A. has already weighed in on that topic. Its Web site classifies the Volt as a ''plug-in hybrid'' while calling the Leaf simply an ''electric car.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Chevrolet expects its Volt model, above, to have a label with multiple fuel-economy figures. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVE FECHT FOR GENERAL MOTORS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (73%); HYBRID VEHICLES (73%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (73%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2010



393 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 501 words

HEADLINE: The Pulse

BYLINE: By JESSICA REAVES and DAN MCGRATH

 BODY:
Hospital Workers Feel Recession's Pinch
Conventional wisdom holds that hospital jobs are essentially recession-proof: people are always going to get sick, and someone will have to take care of them. But a new study shows that the current recession has not spared local health care providers. 
In a report Friday, the Metropolitan Chicago Healthcare Council said a record number of hospitals are operating at a loss, and more than 8,000 medical professionals lost their jobs in 2008. Chicago-area hospitals provided $1.2 billion in free medical care, an increase of 16 percent from 2007, which added to their costs, according to the report.
''I have been working in this market for 30 years,'' said Kevin Scanlan, president of the M.C.H.C., a trade association that advocates on behalf of hospitals and other health care facilities.
''None of us can recall a time when there have been layoffs across the board not related to closures or mergers, and not unique to one type of hospital.''
As the area's population ages, the demand for medical care may increasingly exceed supply. The report estimated that by 2020, the city's geriatric patients will require the assistance of 20,000 additional registered nurses.
As the demand for care continues to rise, there will be more pressure on hospitals to keep their costs low. There also will be more pressure on hospitals to keep their costs low, and health care providers will no longer be able to count on increasing government subsidies to fill the gaps.
''Hospitals will continue to see shrinking revenue from their largest payer, the government, as reimbursements from Medicare and Medicaid are expected to continue to decrease,'' Mr. Scanlan said.
''We know that our population over 55 years of age is increasing every year, and they will rely on our hospitals for more health care.''
JESSICA REAVES
Maloney Steps Down From Post With Cubs
Frank Maloney is stepping down in December as senior director of ticket operations after 29 years with the Cubs. With his retirement, the Cubs are losing another link to the era of former general manager Dallas Green.
A Chicago native, Mr. Maloney joined the Cubs in 1981, after 17 years as a football coach. He guided Mount Carmel, his high school alma mater, to the city championship in 1967, then spent six years as an assistant coach at Michigan, where he was an All-Big Ten guard and linebacker in the early 1960s.
He was the head coach for six years at Syracuse, where his staff included Bears General Manager Jerry Angelo, University of Alabama Coach Nick Saban, Giants Coach Tom Coughlin and Joe Novak, the former Northern Illinois coach.
The Cubs set numerous attendance records during Mr. Maloney's tenure and have drawn more than 3 million fans for seven straight seasons dating to 2004. Their letter announcing almost annual ticket price increases also went out over his signature.
''It's time to do something a little less stressful,'' Mr. Maloney said. He will remain with the Cubs as a consultant through 2011.
DAN McGRATH

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSPITALS (91%); RECESSION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (84%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (79%); NURSES & NURSING (79%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); ATHLETES (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (75%); MEDICARE (75%); MEDICAID (74%); GERIATRICS (74%); MERGERS (72%); RESEARCH REPORTS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); TICKET SALES (68%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (64%); SPORTS (64%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2010



394 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 3249 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
Movies
Ratings and running times are in parentheses; foreign films have English subtitles. Full reviews of all current releases, movie trailers, showtimes and tickets: nytimes.com/movies.
'Alpha and Omega' (PG, 1:28) This animated film about talking wolves in the Canadian Rockies that learn lessons about cooperation and love occasionally has a touch of old-fashioned grandeur in its western vistas, but otherwise it's funny-animal and noble-beast business as usual. (Mike Hale)20101014
'Budrus' (No rating, 1:22, in Arabic, Hebrew and English) Julia Bacha's engrossing, sometimes inspiring documentary recounts the pioneering efforts in nonviolent protest undertaken by the residents of the Palestinian village of Budrus in the West Bank. (Hale)20101014
'Buried' (R, 1:35) This horror movie with delusions of moral grandeur portrays the ordeal of a nonmilitary truck driver in Iraq (Ryan Reynolds) who is buried alive and held for ransom. Though sloppy and overwrought, it pricks your deepest terrors of claustrophobic confinement. (Stephen Holden)20101014 
'Case 39' (R, 1:49) Radiating a distinctly retro vibe, this throwaway addition to the diminutive-demon genre features Renee Zellweger as a harried social worker who unwisely fosters an at-risk 10-year-old (an exceptional Jodelle Ferland). Working methodically and without irrelevant motion, the German director Christian Alvart is consistently undermined by a screenplay (by Ray Wright) more interested in following formula than breaking new ground. (Manohla Dargis)20101014
'Catfish' (PG-13, 1:26) A sloppy, shallow, ethically compromised documentary and also a fascinating document of life, love and self-creation in the age of Facebook. (A. O. Scott)20101014
'Devil' (PG-13, 1:20) This serviceable burst of high-end hokum traps five strangers in an elevator in a Philadelphia office tower, all harboring sins in dire need of atonement. Classing up a flimsy, religion-themed plot (by M. Night Shyamalan) with the kind of limber cinematography only someone like Tak Fujimoto can deliver, the director John Erick Dowdle remains cool when the lights fail and the blood begins to flow. (Jeannette Catsoulis)20101014
'Easy A' (PG-13, 1:33) Whatever else it accomplishes, the sassy high school comedy ''Easy A'' commands attention for the irresistible presence of Emma Stone, playing a good girl who pretends to be bad. (Holden)20101014
'Eat Pray Love' (PG-13, 2:13) Post-divorce spiritual globe-trotting, starring Julia Roberts, from Elizabeth Gilbert's best-selling memoir. Nothing to change your life, but honest and satisfying all the same. (Scott)20101014
- 'Enter the Void' (No rating, 2:17, in French) This is your brain. This is your brain on a Gaspar Noe movie. (Dargis)20101014
'Gasland' (No rating, 1:05) Josh Fox's documentary about the consequences of America's rush to find natural gas, and the dangers of the controversial drilling practice known as hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, is an example of melancholy muckracking: somber in tone and vivid in its images of fouled landscapes and flaming faucets. The weight of Mr. Fox's evidence is convincing, though his less-than-rigorous methods leave him open to attack by corporate and government naysayers. (Hale)20101014
- 'Get Low' (PG-13, 1:42) Robert Duvall plays a Tennessee hermit who arranges his own funeral while he is still alive. Bill Murray is the undertaker who agrees to organize the service, and Sissy Spacek is an old flame of the not quite deceased. The story, based on a real-life anecdote of Depression-era Appalachia, veers into some corny and overfamiliar territory, but the telling is easy and assured, and the cast is hard to beat. (Scott)20101014
'The Girl Who Played With Fire' (No rating, 2:09, in Swedish) Lisbeth Salander returns, framed for murder and embroiled in an investigation that leads in the direction of her monstrous father. This Swedish-language adaptation of the second novel in Stieg Larsson's best-selling trilogy is better than its predecessor, but apart from Noomi Rapace's ferocious performance as Lisbeth, it doesn't rise about the level of not-bad television. (Scott)20101014
'Heartbreaker' (No rating, 1:44, in French) This slapstick-infused French imitation of a Hollywood romantic comedy is saved by Romain Duris's frisky portrayal of an ethical gigolo who is hired to break up mismatched couples, without sleeping with the women. (Holden)20101014
- 'Howl' (No rating, 1:30) Not your standard biopic. Rob Epstein and Jeffrey Friedman's film uses the documentary record, some rather literal-minded animation (by Eric Drooker) and the talents of James Franco to recreate the time, place and impact of Allen Ginsberg's ''Howl.'' A rare and genuine work of literary criticism on film, this movie has the power to return you to a great poem with fresh eyes and ears. (Scott)20101014
- 'I Am Love' (No rating, 2:00, in Italian) A visually lush melodrama from Luca Guadagnino about the young matriarch (Tilda Swinton) of a wealthy Milanese family whose passions and suffering fuel this art-house gloss on the women's picture. (Dargis)20101014
- 'Idiots and Angels' (No rating, 1:21) Hand-drawn in swirling pencil lines, the dystopia conjured by Bill Plympton's sixth and best animated feature suggests Toulouse-Lautrec by way of Charles Bukowski. (Holden)20101014
'Inception' (PG-13, 2:32) This elegantly action-filled brainteaser from Christopher Nolan (''The Dark Knight,'' ''Memento'') stars Leonardo DiCaprio as a spy for hire who burrows into the dreams of his targets and nearly gets lost in his own subconscious, where a mysterious woman played by Marion Cotillard is waiting for him. The film is entertaining enough but not quite up to its grandest ambitions, and it works best as a heist movie with a few extra twists and visual surprises. (Scott)20101014
- 'Inside Job' (PG-13, 1:45) Charles Ferguson's anatomy of the 2008 financial disaster is meticulous, informative and infuriating. In a strong year for documentaries, this one is essential viewing. (Scott)20101014
'I Spit on Your Grave' (No rating, 1:47) Steven R. Monroe's remake of Meir Zarchi's sickening 1978 rampage takes few liberties with the story of a comely young writer (Sarah Butler) exacting revenge on a gang of hairy-palmed rapists in the Louisiana backwoods. Less exploitative than the original -- whose sandblasted verite look has been replaced by Neil Lisk's swampy-slick photography -- and with more authentic performances, this new film is extremely efficient grindhouse with a topping of female-empowerment fantasy. (Catsoulis)20101014
'It's Kind of a Funny Story' (PG-13, 1:41) Anna Boden and Ryan Fleck (''Half Nelson,'' ''Sugar'') turn Ned Vizzini's young-adult loony-bin adventure into a wry, sensitive story of teenage confusion. Keir Gilchrist is Craig, a New York high school student whose suicidal thoughts land him in the psychiatric wing of a large hospital. It turns out to be a friendly place, where he meets an eccentric mentor (Zach Galifianakis) and a girl (Emma Roberts). There is something cautious and a little patronizing about the movie, which feels as if it were made by responsible adults trying, with all good intentions, to reach out to the youth. (Scott)20101014
'Jack Goes Boating' (R, 1:31) Philip Seymour Hoffman directs and stars in this mopey, minor-key story, adapted from Robert Glaudini's play, about a shy, sad fellow looking for love. Amy Ryan is the woman he falls for, but Daphne Rubin-Vega and John Ortiz as Jack's best friends (a volatile married couple) give the film its heart and authenticity. (Scott)20101014
'Jim' (No rating, 1:46) Jeremy Morris-Burke's feature debut as director, writer, cinematographer and editor jumps among three timelines and several stories: an angry downsizing drama, a cautionary tale about genetic engineering and a dystopian science-fiction fantasy set on a future Earth populated by clones. They share a reliance on cliche and straight-out-of-writing-class dialogue. (Hale)20101014
- 'Last Train Home' (No rating, 1:27, in Mandarin language and Sichuan dialect) Lixin Fan's wrenching and compassionate documentary examines a complex and overwhelming social phenomenon -- the role of migrant laborers in China's fast-changing economy -- from the standpoint of a family that is tested and fractured by globalization. (Scott)20101014
'Leaving' (No rating, 1:25, in French) A proper bourgeois wife and mother (Kristin Scott Thomas) and an earthy (more like furry) day laborer (Sergi Lopez) embark on an illicit affair in an increasingly improbable French drama from Catherine Corsini. (Dargis)20101014
'Legend of the Guardians: the Owls of Ga'Hoole' (PG, 1:30) Or (after Harry Potter's postal pet) ''Hedwig of the Rings.'' Zack Snyder, director of ''300,'' aims for younger males with this animated all-avian opus based on Kathryn Lasky's books. And it's a hoot, full of winged warriors in helmets and metal claws, swooping vengefully in slow-motion conflagration. Each feather, sunset and 3-D perspective is rendered impeccably, and the voice talent, much of it Australian, is top-notch. But a trite setup (and some retrograde female characterizations) keep it from soaring. (Andy Webster)20101014
- 'Let Me In' (R, 1:55) This remake of the spooky, heartfelt Swedish vampire film ''Let the Right One In'' is full of strange emotions and effects, not the least of which are two haunting and subtle performances, by Kodi Smit-McPhee as a misfit 12-year-old boy and Chloe Grace Moretz as the undead girl who eases his loneliness. The director, Matt Reeves (''Cloverfield'') uses some of the techniques of horror to create feelings far weirder and more interesting than fear and suspense. Not that horror fans will be disappointed. (Scott)20101014
'Life As We Know It' (PG, 1:55) It's enough to say that this bland romantic comedy (starring an abrasive Katherine Heigl) is well made for its corporate type. But there is not a single deviation from rom-com formula. (Holden)20101014
'Machete' (R, 1:45) The pace is swift, the tone playful, and the screenplay peppered with one-liners in this splatter comedy that takes on the immigration debate. Whether mowed down by gunfire or dispatched by sheaves of blades, the bodies pile up in split-second blasts of carnage. (Holden)20101014
'Mao's Last Dancer' (PG, 1:57) In Bruce Beresford's film, based on the true story of a Chinese dancer who was allowed to come to Houston to study in the early 1980s and subsequently defected, ballet and modern Chinese history are window dressing for what's essentially a deluxe old-fashioned tear-jerker. (Hale)20101014
- 'Marwencol' (No rating, 1:23) Named for a tiny World War II-era town painstakingly constructed by Mark Hogancamp after his emergence from a beating-induced coma in 2000, Jeff Malmberg's documentary paints a multilayered portrait of an outsider artist. Populated by meticulously costumed Barbies and G. I. Joes, the town is a hotbed of sex, violence and betrayal fantasies that provide therapy for its creator and a record of his fascinating journey from near death to active life. (Catsoulis)20101014
- 'Mesrine: Killer Instinct' (Part 1) and 'Mesrine: Public Enemy No. 1' (Part 2) (R, 1:53 and 2:14, in French) ''Mesrine'' may not be a tragic gangster epic in the tradition of the ''The Godfather'' movies; it is too flighty and episodic. But it has a monumental lead performance by Vincent Cassel. He fuses the cobralike menace of the young Robert Mitchum with the whipsaw, shape-shifting volatility of classic Robert De Niro. (Holden)20101014
'My Soul to Take' (R, 1:46) Wes Craven's first feature in five years is about seven teenagers born the night a serial killer died, each of whom inherited one aspect of his fractured personality. It follows the Craven recipe of comic pop-culture references mixed with dreamy shocks, but only a few fleeting moments have any of the old Craven poetry. (Hale)20101014
'Never Let Me Go' (R, 1:43) Mark Romanek directs this pretty, emotionally arid adaptation of the Kazuo Ishiguro novel, with Carey Mulligan, Andrew Garfield and Keira Knightley as three young people raised to become organ donators. (Dargis)20101014
'Nowhere Boy' (R, 1:37) Sam Taylor-Wood directs and Aaron Johnson stars in a prettily photographed melodrama about a tumultuous period in John Lennon's adolescence when maternal love blurred together with sex, ale and rock 'n' roll. (Dargis)20101014
'Nuremberg' (No rating, 1:18, in English and German) A painstaking reconstruction of Stuart Schulberg's documentary, commissioned by the American military in 1945, about the first war-crimes trials of high-ranking German officials. Some of the footage of Nazi atrocities and their perpetrators is nearly as shocking now as it must have been just after the war, when the full scope of the horror was only beginning to be understood. (Scott)20101014
'Resident Evil: Afterlife' (R, 1:30) More moribund than its thronging undead, this witless fourth installment in the video-game-derived saga of a comely zombie hunter (Milla Jovovich) spends most of its running time in a Los Angeles prison surrounded by hordes of pustular flesh-eaters. Assisted by helpful freeze-frames to allow us to admire the extra dimension, a small band of survivors fights off the infected and finally heads for the sewers. The script follows. (Catsoulis)20101014
'Secretariat' (PG, 1:56) Diane Lane plays Penny Chenery, the owner of the 1970s four-legged racing sensation, in a gauzy Disney movie that's as square as a military flattop. The director Randall Wallace whips the uplift until it's frothy. (Dargis)20101014
- 'The Social Network' (PG-13, 2:00) David Fincher, working from Aaron Sorkin's script, directs a fleet, weirdly funny, exhilarating, alarming, fictionalized look at the boot-up, log-on, plug-in generation and the man (Jesse Eisenberg as Mark Zuckerberg) behind the social-media phenomenon Facebook. Andrew Garfield and Justin Timberlake also star. (Dargis)20101014
'Stone' (R, 1:45) The director John Curran's recipe for pulp fiction: Dim the lights. Take Edward Norton (as a prisoner), Milla Jovovich (as a wife), Robert De Niro (as a prison official) and Frances Conroy (as another wife). Stir. (Dargis)20101014
'Takers' (PG-13, 1:47) A movie about guys who take stuff that is every bit as imaginative as its title. The clothes are nice, though, and there are some decent action sequences and performances (notably from Matt Dillon and Tip Harris, better known as the rapper T. I.). (Scott)20101014
'Tamara Drewe' (R, 1:47) Stephen Frears's fizzy pastoral sex farce -- adapted from Posy Simmonds's graphic novel, itself an updating of Thomas Hardy's ''Far From the Madding Crowd'' -- is mildly naughty, admirably frank in its approach to sex and finally not all that interesting. Gemma Arterton is the title character, who returns to her rural hometown to juggle three suitors: a rock star; a married, older novelist; and a hunky rustic swain. (Scott)20101014
'Tibet in Song' (No rating, 1:26, in English and Tibetan) In this stirring, dismaying documentary, Ngawang Choephel, a Tibetan musicologist, does more than just tell his own remarkable story of being imprisoned by the Chinese while he was trying to record Tibetan folk songs. He recaps Tibet's long struggle, paints a stark picture of China's efforts to erase Tibetan culture and introduces us to some courageous souls who have resisted the encroachments. (Neil Genzlinger)20101014
'The Town' (R, 2:05) Ben Affleck directs and stars in this not-bad Boston crime thriller, with decent action, good performances -- notably Jon Hamm, Jeremy Renner and Blake Lively -- and some fine, if somewhat fetishized, local color. (Scott)20101014
- 'Waiting for ''Superman'' ' (PG, 1:42) Davis Guggenheim's powerful, alarming documentary about America's failing public schools is a call to arms to modify a system that he portrays as held hostage by teachers' unions. The potential saviors are reformers like Geoffrey Canada, founder of the Harlem Children's Zone. (Holden)20101014
'Wall Street: Money Never Sleeps' (PG-13, 2:13) Gordon Gekko (Michael Douglas) returns in Oliver Stone's unwieldy and entertaining attempt at a moral anatomy of the financial debacle of 2008. If Mr. Stone misses the chance to turn that event into great drama, he nonetheless turns it into a sweeping, racing and intermittently pithy show. Shia LeBeouf is Gekko's would-be son-in-law; Carey Mulligan is the rogue financier's estranged daughter; and Josh Brolin is a suave titan of the Street who very nearly out-Gekkos Gekko. (Scott)20101014
'Winter's Bone' (R, 1:40) Debra Granik's flinty Ozark noir follows a teenage girl's search for her missing father, an expert methamphetamine cooker who has fallen afoul of his own outlaw kin. Jennifer Lawrence's lead performance is flawless and helps to lift this film above at least some of the usual independent-movie assumptions about rural poverty in America. (Scott)20101014
'You Will Meet a Tall Dark Stranger' (R, 1:38) Sexual longing and metaphysical emptiness with an all-start cast in London, written and directed by -- no points for guessing right! -- Woody Allen. (Scott)20101014
Film Series
Agog: The World of Timothy Carey (Friday through Thursday) A favorite of filmmakers as aesthetically opposed as Stanley Kubrick and John Cassavetes, Timothy Carey could always be counted upon to turn even the tiniest role into a scene-stealing eruption of unthrottled eccentricity. This tribute program includes his one completed feature as a director, the astounding 1962 ''The World's Greatest Sinner'' (Saturday at 7 p.m., introduced by the director's son, Romeo Carey), in which Carey stars as an insurance salesman who forms his own religion. It also has an unfinished television project, ''Tweet's Ladies of Pasadena'' (Saturday at 9:30 p.m.), shot in fits and starts from 1970 to 1982. A sampling of his acting appearances includes Cassavetes's ''Killing of a Chinese Bookie'' (Friday, Sunday and Wednesday); Phil Karlson's western ''A Time for Killing'' (Monday); and Marlon Brando's whatsit ''One-Eyed Jacks'' (Sunday and Tuesday). Anthology Film Archives, 32-34 Second Avenue, at Second Street, East Village , (212) 505-5181, anthologyfilmarchives.org; $9. (Dave Kehr)20101014
Spotlight: Nathalie Baye (Friday through Thursday) Unlike most of their American counterparts, French actresses enjoy the privilege of being able to age on screen, and Ms. Baye, a star since the 1970s, has passed through at least three stages in her long and continuing career, all covered in this weeklong series sponsored by uniFrance and the Film Society of Lincoln Center. In films like ''The Return of Martin Guerre'' (Friday and Sunday) and Maurice Pialat's wrenching ''The Mouth Agape'' (Sunday and Thursday), she's a pretty young thing with a touch of soulfulness; in '80s films like Jean-Luc Godard's ''Detective'' (Sunday and Wednesday) and Bertrand Blier's ''Notre Histoire'' (Tuesday and Wednesday), she's a mature woman in command of her sexuality; and in more recent films, like Tonie Marshall's ''Venus Beauty Institute'' (Saturday and Monday), Frederic Fonteyne's ''Affair of Love'' (Saturday and Monday) and Xavier Beauvois's ''Petit Lieutenant'' (Friday), she's a professional facing issues of age and isolation. Ms. Baye will be present for a conversation on Friday at 8:15 p.m., following the 6:15 screening of the Beauvois film. Walter Reade Theater, 165 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center , (212) 875-5600, filmlinc.com; $9, $12. (Kehr)20101014

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: SPOTLIGHT: NATHALIE BAYE: (Friday through Thursday) Unlike most of their American counterparts, French actresses enjoy the privilege of being able to age on screen, and Ms. Baye, a star since the 1970s, has passed through at least three stages in her long and continuing career, all covered in this weeklong series sponsored by uniFrance and the Film Society of Lincoln Center. Ms. Baye will be present for a conversation on Friday at 8:15 p.m., following the 6:15 screening of Xavier Beauvois's ''Petit Lieutenant'' (2005), above. Walter Reade Theater, 165 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 875-5600, filmlinc .com
 $9 and $12. (Dave Kehr) (PHOTOGRAPH BY CINEMA GUILD) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (91%); MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); FILM GENRES (90%); MOVIE RATINGS (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (79%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (74%); ANIMATED FILMS (74%); HORROR FILMS (74%); CINEMATOGRAPHY (74%); RELIGION (69%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (54%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (53%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%)

PERSON: JULIA ROBERTS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ROCKY MOUNTAINS (73%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (77%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2010



395 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: Council Speaker Shelves a Sick-Leave Bill

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
Against the wishes of a veto-proof majority in the City Council, the Council speaker, Christine C. Quinn, effectively shelved a much-debated bill that would have required all employers in the city to provide paid sick days to their workers.
Ms. Quinn said Thursday that she could not support the measure because she feared that it ''threatens the survival of small-business owners.'' But her decision to side with the business interests that had lobbied aggressively against the bill drew immediate charges that Ms. Quinn had undermined her progressive roots to enhance her prospects of being elected mayor in 2013. 
She drew particular scorn from the Working Families Party, a coalition of progressive groups and labor unions, which had been pushing for the sick-leave bill. Bob Master, the party's co-chairman, called Ms. Quinn's decision ''a defeat for the hundreds of thousands of low-income workers in New York City who will be forced to choose between taking a day off when they are sick and the paycheck they need.''
The bill would have mandated that workers receive at least five days of paid leave for their own illness or to care for family members. It would have applied only to workers who do not receive at least one week of paid time off, including vacation, each year. The bill's proponents said they had lined up the support of 35 of the 51 council members, enough to overcome an expected veto by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, who said last week that the measure would be ''disastrous'' for the city's economy.
But Ms. Quinn said she would not call for a vote on the measure, which for more than a year has been the subject of negotiations between advocates for working-class New Yorkers and business groups. Citing the city's unemployment rate of nearly 10 percent, Ms. Quinn said it was ''simply not the right time'' to place an additional burden on small businesses. She said the economy would have to improve before she would reconsider her opposition.
''We tried to get to a compromise where we could expand benefits without putting small businesses at risk of closure,'' she said. ''We were unable to do that.''
Ms. Quinn did not offer any statistical support for the argument that the legislation might have been ''the breaking point'' for a significant number of businesses, but she said it would cost smaller firms about $700 a year for each employee, and larger employers about $1,200. A report by the Partnership for New York City, which represents the city's biggest employers, estimated that the bill could cost businesses nearly $800 million a year.
But proponents of the bill said that projection was too dire. Dan Cantor, executive director of the Working Families Party, said it would have cost employers about $8 a worker per week.
A study of the effects of a similar law in San Francisco concluded that it had not harmed the local economy. That study, conducted by the Drum Major Institute for Public Policy, a liberal research group, found that San Francisco had added jobs since a paid-sick-leave law was put into effect, while the surrounding areas had lost jobs.
Gale A. Brewer, the councilwoman who was the bill's lead sponsor, indicated that she would not try to bring the measure for a vote over Ms. Quinn's objection. But she vowed to keep pushing for the measure in the Council.
''This bill is simply the right thing to do,'' said Ms. Brewer, a Democrat who represents the Upper West Side. ''It has overwhelming support from New Yorkers and in the City Council, the facts on the ground in San Francisco show it is good for business, and it is a lifeline for public health.''
Restaurant owners and other business groups cheered Ms. Quinn's decision.
''Speaker Chris Quinn showed real leadership today in making the courageous decision to defend the city's small-business community against another costly mandate,'' said Kathryn S. Wylde, the president and chief executive of the Partnership for New York City.
Such talk fed the view of some critics that Ms. Quinn had her sights on the mayor's office when she sided with Mr. Bloomberg and against the majority of her fellow council members. Though Ms. Quinn has refused to divulge her political aspirations, she is widely believed to be a leading candidate to succeed Mr. Bloomberg and will need the support of business owners as a counterweight to other contenders who will appeal to progressive voters.
But Ms. Quinn said she had made her decision independent of any aspirations she might have for higher office. ''I have to go to bed tonight as the speaker of the City Council,'' she said.
A prominent supporter of the legislation, Gloria Steinem, said, ''Speaker Quinn had a chance to really improve the lives of working women, especially low-income women, and chose not to.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SICK LEAVE (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VETO (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); MAYORS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); LOBBYING (75%); FAMILY (74%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); HOLIDAY & VACATION PAY (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (67%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (63%); CLOSINGS (62%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2010



396 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 7051 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
Art
Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art.
Museums
American Folk Art Museum: 'The Private Collection of Henry Darger,' through Oct. 24. This revelatory exhibition proposes, unconvincingly, that the self-taught, reclusive eccentric Henry Darger was an art collector. It presents about 40 of the 100 or so collages, drawings and images from magazines and books that he hung on the walls of his one-bedroom apartment. The revelation is in his collages, which look nothing like the big, lurid watercolors he is known for. Roughly cut and pasted and focused mainly on images of young girls, they are weirdly numinous. 45 West 53rd Street , (212) 265-1040, folkartmuseum.org. (Ken Johnson)20101014 
- Asia Society Museum: 'Yoshitomo Nara: Nobody's Fool,' through Jan. 2. This Japanese artist, known for paintings and sculptures of big-eyed toddlers and friendly dogs redolent of children's books, makes over the entire museum into a homey, deceptively beguiling blend of art, life, music and make-believe that includes a wonderland of wood-scrap passages, rooms, houses and clapboard walls. But the raw emotions of childhood here range from those inspired by punk rock to Thoreau. Take the under-10 set; don't be surprised if they get ideas. 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street , (212) 327-9271, asiasociety.org. (Roberta Smith)20101014
Brooklyn Museum: Fred Tomaselli, through Jan. 2. Mr. Tomaselli became known in the 1990s for paintings in which pills of all sorts, including psychedelics, aspirin, anti-depressants and other prescription medications, as well as marijuana leaves and images clipped from books and magazines, were arranged into compositions of dazzling, hallucinogenic complexity and sealed under glossy, transparent coats of plastic resin. This beautifully organized, two-decade retrospective does full justice to his mind-expanding art. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park , (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Johnson)20101014
Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum: 'National Design Triennial: Why Design Now?,' through Jan. 9. The fourth edition of this triennial is the largest yet and the most international in its reach. It is also, hands down, the most ecology-conscious. Design as defined here isn't about how to make the House Beautiful more beautiful, but about how to keep the globe afloat and give all its occupants access to a healthy patch of it. Reduce, reuse, recycle are the imperatives embodied in the work, which includes a hand-cranked grain thresher made from repurposed materials, a light bulb fueled by dirt, and digital images of a new all-green, no-car city to be built in the desert outside Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. The architectural projects included are particularly impressive, and if not every idea in the show is strong, many are already generating winds of change. 2 East 91st Street , (212) 849-8400, cooperhewitt.org. (Holland Cotter)20101014
- Guggenheim Museum: 'Chaos and Classicism: Art in France, Italy, and Germany, 1918-1936,' through Jan. 9. This unusually probing, incisive and dramatic big exhibition traces the retreat to Classical themes in modern art between World War I and World War II by artists like Picasso and Leger to others, now little-known, favored by Hitler and Mussolini. With its intense fusion art and politics, the result is totally engrossing: a survey-style piece of investigative history with a bomb ticking away inside. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street , (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Cotter)20101014
- International Center of Photography: 'The Mexican Suitcase,' through Jan. 9. In 1939, at the start of World War II, the photographer Robert Capa fled Paris. Before leaving, he packed up some 4,500 negatives and gave them to a friend to forward to him in New York. The negatives were almost all for images of the Spanish Civil War taken by Capa; David Seymour, also known as Chim; and by Gerda Taro, who had died in action two years before. The negatives, which finally arrived in New York in 2007 after a mysterious journey, are the subject of a fascinating show that rewards the close looking it requires. 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street , (212) 857-0045, icp.org. (Cotter)20101014
Jewish Museum: 'Shifting the Gaze: Painting and Feminism,' through Jan. 30. This smart, surprising look at the women's art movement as it played out in painting begins with a studious but assertive self-portrait by a young Lee Krasner and ends with Nicole Eisenman's new canvas ''Seder,'' a distinctly nontraditional depiction of that festival meal. In between are plenty of other works that grapple with feminism and Judaism, often simultaneously. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street , (212) 423-3200, jewishmuseum.org. (Karen Rosenberg)20101014
Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Between Here and There: Passages in Contemporary Photography,' through Feb. 13. This lively little collection show gathers photographs and videos about travel of one kind or another. The trip might be Ed Ruscha's drive down the Sunset Strip, Doug Aitken's airplane flight, Richard Long's walk through the British countryside or Bruce Nauman's jerky, robotic march across the floor of his studio. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)20101014
Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Celebration: The Birthday in Chinese Art,' through Nov. 28. In China, birthdays are many-happy-returns-of-the-day affairs. You want to make merry, but mainly you want to live long, and the Ming and Qing dynasty objects in this show, with their symbols of immortality, reflect that sentiment. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Cotter)20101014
Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Doug + Mike Starn on the Roof: Big Bambu,' through Oct. 31. With a walk-in/walk-on, site-specific, thoroughly exhilarating sculpture by the brothers Doug and Mike Starn, the Met has transformed its civilized roof garden into an urban jungle. At ground level the sculpture looks like a canopied bamboo grove, but visitors who can negotiate the timed-ticket program and wear appropriate footwear will be rewarded with a heady excursion along flexible, winding ramps some 40 feet overhead -- and superior views of Central Park. See metmuseum.org/special/big--bambu/guidelines.asp. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)20101014
- Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Man, Myth, and Sensual Pleasure: Jan Gossart's Renaissance,' through Jan. 17. Do not miss the first -- and superb -- American exhibition devoted to the Flemish artist Jan Gossart, also known as Mabuse, which contains 50 of his 63 surviving paintings and 35 drawings, as well as some 40 works by his predecessors (including Jan van Eyck), contemporaries (Albrecht Durer) and a follower or two. You'll see the history of Northern European art nearly turn on a dime, from Gothic (both High and Mannered) to the Italian Renaissance's special blend of fleshy and mythological knowledge that Gossart extracted from the recently unearthed Greco-Roman sculptures he saw on an early, crucial visit to Rome. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)20101014
Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Masterpieces of French Art Deco,' continuing. The largest exhibition of works from the Met's extensive holdings in French Art Deco fills a large gallery to overflowing with nearly 150 examples of art, furniture, wallpaper, decorative objects and the odd painting. Far more aristocratic than its American counterpart, French Deco devoted exquisite craftsmanship, opulent materials and historicizing design to the creation of one-of-a-kind luxury items. The desks and cabinets of the incomparable Jacques-Emile Ruhlmann quietly dominate, along with vases by Jacques Dunand and silver by Jean Puiforcat. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)20101014
- Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Sounding the Pacific: Musical Instruments of Oceania,' through Jan. 23. This fascinating survey of aural sculpture covers the waterfront from a 19th-century Hawaiian ukulele to a tree-size slit-gong from Papua New Guinea. An Indonesian zither, with a delicate, balloonlike resonator of bent palm leaves, looks ethereal enough to drift away on a breeze and was used to accompany fatalistic songs that depict life as baffling and brief. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Cotter)20101014
- Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'The World of Khubilai Khan: Chinese Art in the Yuan Dynasty,' through Jan. 2. The Yuan dynasty was established in the 13th century by Mongol invaders in China. No clear profile of their rule coheres in this big, understated show, but there are many fascinating objects to ponder. A much clearer picture of China's cultural response to the Mongol presence can be found in a concurrent Met exhibition (through Jan. 9), ''The Yuan Revolution: Art and Dynastic Change,'' drawn from the museum's permanent collection. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Cotter)20101014
Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Tibetan Arms and Armor From the Permanent Collection,' through fall 2011. The paradox of militant Buddhism inspired the Met's fascinating 2006 exhibition ''Warriors of the Himalayas: Rediscovering the Arms and Armor of Tibet.'' Later Donald LaRocca, the museum's arms and armor curator, created this follow-up installation of 35 objects from the Met's collection (including five acquired in 2007). This time the focus is on defense rather than offense; examples of horse and body armor, dating from the 15th through the 20th centuries, outnumber swords, guns and spears. Most of these objects have seen more ceremonial than military action. All of them equate supreme craftsmanship with defense of the body and Buddhist principles. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)20101014
Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Vienna Circa 1780: An Imperial Silver Service Rediscovered,' through Nov. 7. Extravagant tableware was de rigueur for aristocratic dining in 18th-century Europe, and the silver plates, tureens, wine coolers and candelabra in this exhibition are part of an ensemble made for a daughter of Empress Maria Theresa of Austria. If you consider elaborate craftsmanship the measure of beauty, what's here is pretty breathtaking. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Cotter)20101014
Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Young Archer,' continuing. ''Young Archer,'' a life-size marble carving of a naked boy drawing an arrow from his lion's paw quiver, might be the earliest known sculpture by Michelangelo. Scholars disagree. On a 10-year loan from France, the legless, armless boy with a yearning expression is in the Met's bright and airy Velez Blanco Patio, where viewers may decide for themselves if it is the real thing. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)20101014
- Morgan Library & Museum: 'Roy Lichtenstein: The Black-and-White Drawings, 1961-1968,' through Jan. 2. This brilliant show zeroes in on the large finished drawings that brought Lichtenstein's bold Pop Art style to full flower. It counters the notion of his anonymous touch by stressing an egalitarian mix of commercial and fine art techniques (and displaying his drawing tools). The works are free of virtuosic refinement but full of striking contrasts -- the chiseled density of graphite versus the porosity of soft-edged Benday dots and frottage, for example. Formal and physical resonance keeps pace with the pop-cultural kind, which is no mean feat. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street , (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org. (Smith)20101014
- Museum of Modern Art: 'Abstract Expressionist New York: Ideas Not Theories,' through Feb. 28. This exhibition, one of two smaller shows inspired by the Modern's Abstract Expressionist extravaganza, delves into the movement's legendary intellectual forum, the Club, with a cornucopia of prints, drawings, small paintings and such oddities as a rug by John Ferren and a mosaic by Jeanne Reynal, the early abstract films of Len Lye and architectural projects by R. Buckminster Fuller and Oscar Niemeyer. The prevalence of lively contextualizing material and sense of MoMA's incalculably rich holdings impress, although the very premise reinforces the members-only ambience of the larger show. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)20101014
- Museum of Modern Art: 'Abstract Expressionist New York: Rock Paper Scissors,' through Feb. 28. The second accompaniment to MoMA's Abstract Expressionist show examines the objects of 10 sculptors supplemented by prints and other works on, or of, paper. Forgotten names include David Hare, Dorothy Dehner and Seymour Lipton. Other artists are in the main (David Smith, Louise Nevelson) or should have been (Louise Bourgeois, Isamu Noguchi). A prevailing period look suggests that much of the material is of historical interest. But don't miss Stanley William Hayter's 1940 plaster ''Hand Sculpture,'' whose squeezed undulations presage the directness of drip painting. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)20101014
- Museum of Modern Art: 'Abstract Expressionist New York: The Big Picture,' through April 25. More generous retrenchment than expansive revision, this landmark show culls some 100 paintings, and related sculptures, prints, drawings and photographs, from the unrivaled permanent collection. Yes, a shortage of works by lesser-known artists makes it all a little too MoMA-as-usual, despite the presence of works unseen for decades. But there is something for everyone -- whether the eerily abstract photographs of Aaron Siskind, the immersive gallery of Mark Rothko's radiant canvases or the no-holds-barred ambition of Jackson Pollock, at full tilt in the show's astounding first gallery. The total illuminates, thrills and provides much useful grist -- both artistic and museological -- for the art-world mill. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)20101014
- Museum of Modern Art: 'Counter Space: Design and the Modern Kitchen,' through March 14. Sometimes a kitchen is just a kitchen, but not often. This elaborate show, which draws from every department in the museum and includes some 300 design objects, examines the kitchen's complex role in everyday life (and lifestyle), product development, advertising, sexual stereotyping, at least two war efforts, contemporary art and, throughout, in the evolution of design itself. The centerpiece is a rare, nearly complete example of the cockpitlike, mass-produced Frankfurt Kitchen from 1926-27, an exemplar of the modern spirit that still looks invitingly usable. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)20101014
Museum of Modern Art: 'New Photography 2010: Roe Ethridge, Elad Lassry, Alex Prager and Amanda Ross-Ho,' through Jan. 10. The four artists in this stimulating 25th-anniversary edition of the New Photography series move freely among art photography, film and editorial work. Roe Ethridge, Elad Lassry, Alex Prager and Amanda Ross-Ho appropriate images from movies and magazines, with varying degrees of distance and criticism. The installation combines photography, 16-millimeter film and sculpture, often seamlessly. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Rosenberg)20101014
- Museum of Modern Art: 'The Original Copy: Photography of Sculpture, 1839 to Today,' through Nov. 1. This idea-rich theme show demands some time and concentration, but the reward is a new way of looking at modern art, with an array of images odd, fabulous and often unfamiliar telling the story of how photography and sculpture met, married, reproduced and virtually became one. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Cotter)20101014
- Museum of Modern Art: 'Pictures by Women: A History of Modern Photography,' through March 21. MoMA's photography collection is sufficiently strong in work by women that this show comes close to meeting the promise of its title. The span of 200 works by 120 artists starts around 1850 and comes up to the present, and it is packed with fantastic things. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Cotter)20101014
- Museum of Modern Art: 'Project 93: Dinh Q. Le,' through Jan. 24. The centerpiece of this moving solo show is a video about the war in Vietnam composed of documentary footage, Hollywood action film clips and contemporary interviews. In the interviews older people recall the terror created by helicopters sweeping down from the sky, but two younger men speak of their recent efforts to build helicopters that, while based on wartime models, are meant for use in farming. The small exhibition, by an artist born in Vietnam, is a swords-into-ploughshares show, with one handmade helicopter, constructed from scraps but as neat as a pin, in the gallery. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Cotter)20101014
Museum of the City of New York: 'Notorious & Notable: 20th-Century Women of Style,' through Jan. 2. This sweeping, three-dimensional best-dressed list pays homage to fashionable women from the wives of robber barons to modern business executives. Their outfits, from the museum's costume and textile collection, are arranged by color on either side of a long aisle. There's jewelry, too, coaxed from private collections with the help of the National Jewelry Institute. Everything looks spectacular, though the show isn't quite as plugged in to contemporary ideas of celebrity as its title would suggest. Fifth Avenue at 103rd Street , (212) 534-1672, mcny.org. (Rosenberg)20101014
Museum of the City of New York: 'Samurai in New York: The First Japanese Delegation, 1860,' through Nov. 7. This exhibition commemorates a visit 150 years ago by more than 70 samurai, the first known group to leave Japan after the Tokugawa Shogunate closed the country in 1630 (in response to Spanish and Portuguese attempts to convert the Japanese to Catholicism). Small cartes de viste and stereograph photographs show the samurai -- among the first Japanese ever photographed -- stern in their robes, exhibiting Bushido, the strict code of behavior to which the military elite was bound. The jarring collision of cultures is seen in a Japanese woodcut of a hot-air balloon with two American flags poking out of its basket, next to a haiku in Japanese calligraphy. The show offers a lot to think about in terms of photography and its role in early publicity and celebrity culture as well as a fascinating look at how societies responded to 19th-century stirrings of globalization. Fifth Avenue at 103rd Street , (212) 534-1672, mcny.org. (Martha Schwendener)20101014
Neue Galerie: 'Franz Xaver Messerschmidt 1736-1783: From Neoclassicism to Expressionism,' through Jan. 10. In the annals of creativity and craziness, Messerschmidt holds a secure place with his series of metal and alabaster heads, some of them self-portraits, depicting extremes of human emotion, from hilarity to terror. Several examples of these ''character heads'' have been assembled for this small but potent retrospective, which also includes the artist's commissioned portraits of Central European aristocrats and Enlightenment-era intellectuals. 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street , (212) 628-6200, neuegalerie.org. (Cotter)20101014
New Museum: 'The Last Newspaper,' through Jan. 9. Despite its dramatic title, this visually austere show is far less about the death of print journalism than about how that medium has been recycled and repurposed in contemporary art going back 40 years. As if a vote of confidence in print's future, two newspapers are being produced in the galleries during the run of the exhibition. 235 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side , (212) 219-1222, newmuseum.org. (Cotter)20101014
Noguchi Museum: 'Noguchi Reinstalled,' through Oct. 24. As part of the museum's 25th anniversary this year, this show presents about 200 of Isamu Noguchi's works from the 1920s to the 1980s. They include sculptures in stone, wood, metal and clay; maquettes and models for parks and playgrounds; and props for Martha Graham dance productions. Though unfailingly suave, Noguchi's polished abstraction no longer has the urgency it once had, but the museum as a whole is a wonderful time capsule, and the sculpture garden he designed is utterly blissful. 9-01 33rd Road, at Vernon Boulevard, Long Island City, Queens , (718) 204-7088, noguchi.org. (Johnson)20101014
Smithsonian National Museum of the American Indian: 'A Song for the Horse Nation,' through July 7. Including saddles, riding blankets, clothing, beaded bags and much more, this exhibition brings to light a fascinating and ultimately sad chapter in American history: the hundred-year period during which horses were central to the lives of the Plains Indians. A highly efficient form of transportation, horses enabled Navajo, Crow, Comanche, Pawnee and others to expand their territories and flourish more than they otherwise would have. It also enabled them to make war more effectively, though ultimately not effectively enough. George Gustav Heye Center, 1 Bowling Green, Lower Manhattan , (212) 514-3700, americanindian.si.edu. (Johnson)20101014
Whitney Museum of American Art: 'Collecting Biennials,' through Nov. 28. This permanent-collection show has works by artists who were in past Whitney Annuals and Biennials. It caps an extravaganza of new art with a humbling and diverting mix of classics, oldies and one-hit wonders. Figurative paintings from the 1950s Annuals are paired with contemporaneous Abstract Expressionism, and some big names from the 1980s (Schnabel, Condo) look refreshed. Most eye-opening is the sense that some of the most influential artists (Warhol, Hammons) barely register on the Biennial scorecard. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Rosenberg)20101014
Whitney Museum of American Art: 'Lee Friedlander: America by Car,' through Nov. 28. The black-and-white, square-format photographs in this exhibition were taken from the interior of standard rental cars on road trips over the past 15 years. In these pictures -- nearly 200 in all, in Mr. Friedlander's characteristically dense installation at the Whitney -- our vast, diverse country is buffered by molded plastic dashboards and miniaturized in side-view mirrors. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Rosenberg)20101014
Galleries: Uptown
- 'Else,' through Oct. 23. The artist Derrick Adams made most of the choices for this un-Chelsea show, and they're good ones, with a bunch of stimulating newish artists and some familiar though still underknown figures brought in for a further look. Tilton Gallery, 8 East 76th Street , (212) 737-2221, jacktiltongallery.com. (Cotter)20101014
- Roy Lichtenstein: 'Mostly Men,' through Oct. 30. This gem of an exhibition skims across the long career of an artist most associated with depictions of distressed damsels with 25 works that concentrate on portrayals of the opposite sex. Not surprisingly, the 25 works on hand include several outstanding efforts, both early and late, never before exhibited in New York. Not to be missed. Leo Castelli Gallery, 18 East 77th Street , (212) 249-4470, castelligallery.com. (Smith)20101014
Galleries: Chelsea
Ricci Albenda, through Oct. 23. This transporting exhibition's Pop-Minimalist canvases consist of flat fields of sky blue emblazoned by letters in a font of Mr. Albenda's own design, resembling that of this newspaper's headlines. ''Breathe,'' in which the nearly invisible characters seem to emerge from some transcendental blue yonder, is like a collaboration between Ad Rienhardt and Ed Ruscha. Hung closely around the room, the picture-window-size canvases create an airy, celestial ambience. Andrew Kreps Gallery, 525 West 22nd Street , (212) 741-8849, andrewkreps.com. (Johnson)20101014
Mark Barrow, through Oct. 30. Mr. Barrow paints on stretched linen hand-loomed by his wife, Sarah Parke, using dots of color to highlight the all-over patterns of her textiles even as he blocks out his own, crazy-quilt-like compositions. With their shimmering, overlapping triangles and quadrangles, these collaborative works entwine Americana, modernist geometry, feminism and neo-Impressionism. Elizabeth Dee, 545 West 20th Street , (212) 924-7545, elizabethdeegallery.com. (Rosenberg)20101014
Roy Lichtenstein: 'Reflected,' through Oct. 30. This great Pop artist's use of mirrors as a motif with which to reflect upon abstraction, his own work and a painting's potential for optical bedazzlement is the subject here. In some ways the show is thematically nothing new, but it is well-selected, and nearly every painting is a scintillating world unto itself, ample proof that Lichtenstein's bracing edge-to-edge fusion of the familiar and the abstract still has few equals in modern art. Mitchell-Innes & Nash, 534 West 26th Street , (212) 744-7400, miandn.com. (Smith)20101014
Joan Snyder: 'A Year in the Painting Life,' through Oct. 30. Ms. Snyder is better than ever at the spirited, opulently textured, outrageously colorful style she established some 40 years ago, forcing Abstract Expressionist fervor through a Minimalist sieve into her own private Idaho of post-Minimalism. Dripping, dashing, blossoming brushwork commingles with cheesecloth, burlap, plaster, rope, twigs, rosebuds or plain old dirt. Painting is confirmed as a series of episodic gestures, fleeting thoughts and local feelings that occur linearly but, meeting on a single surface, accumulate into much more. Betty Cuningham Gallery, 541 West 25th Street , (212) 242-2772, bettycuninghamgallery.com. (Smith)20101014
'The Space Between Reference and Regret,' through Oct. 23. ''The Space Between Choice and Chance'' might have been a sharper title, but this group show brings admirable focus to current art's ambivalence about making decisions. Falling between Daniel Buren's awning-stripe paintings from 1972, and canvases that Karin Sander left out in the rain last summer, are related efforts by Matthew Brannon, Wade Guyton, Allan McCollum, Philippe Parreno, Cheyney Thompson and Heimo Zobernig. The preponderance of men isn't quite in line with the emphasis on randomness, but who's counting? Friedrich Petzel, 537 West 22nd Street , (212) 680-9467, petzel.com. (Smith)20101014
Galleries: SoHo
Rob Pruitt: 'Pattern and Degradation,' through Oct. 23. Aided by an ingenious sense of found materials, a generous spirit and a sly way of honoring his favorite artists, this late-late Pop artist fills two galleries with nearly 10 series of paintings and sculptures. T-shirts, Amish quilts, Color Field abstraction, Ikea wall art, car-tire yard urns and a congregation's worth of mismatched chairs are dramatically updated. His signature panda-glitter paintings are on hand, along with new, boisterous figures made of flattened cardboard boxes. All is hybrid. Often degradation is just another word for redemption. The show, also at Maccarone, closes on the same date there: 630 Greenwich Street, at Morton Street, (212) 431-4977, maccarone.net. Gavin Brown's Enterprise, 620 Greenwich Street, at Leroy Street , (212) 627-5258, gavinbrown.biz. (Smith)20101014
- Gerhard Richter: 'Lines Which Do Not Exist,' through Nov. 18. This small, beautifully proportioned five-decade survey of drawings by Mr. Richter is, without even trying to be, an event; it's his first career overview in the United States since his much-praised ''40 Years of Painting'' at the Museum of Modern Art in 2002. The show presents seldom-exhibited work, most of it abstract, in a medium that would seem a natural adjunct to Mr. Richter's paintings and that contributes to his reputation for enigmatic virtuosity. Drawing Center, 35 Wooster Street, SoHo , (212) 219-2166, drawingcenter.org. (Cotter)20101014
Galleries: Other
- Louise Despont: 'House of Instruments,' through Oct. 24. The graphite and watercolor drawings in this fine show were done during a stay this year in South India. Geometry rules; the work's elaborate curvilinear designs were executed with drafting tools on the lined pages of antique ledger books. The effect is of fantastic growth rigorously contained, as in tantric diagrams and Indian temple and garden designs. At the same time, the spirit of pattern-obsessed Western precisionists like A. G. Rizzoli and Adolf Wolfli come to mind. Nicelle Beauchene Gallery, 21 Orchard Street, Lower East Side , (212) 375-8043, nicellebeauchene.com. (Cotter)20101014
James Franco: 'The Dangerous Book Four Boys,' through Dec. 1. The determined multitasking of this famous actor has raised skeptical and envious eyebrows, but his first New York exhibition has its moments. The sculpture, installation pieces and drawings rely on received ideas, and the single-action short videos don't get much beyond Process Art 101, despite the technical finesse. But when he works at an arty tangent to conventional film narratives, as in ''Bill and Tenn'' and ''Masculinity & Me'' especially, a genuinely personal sense of style, texture and emotional tone emerges. Clocktower Gallery, Art International Radio, 108 Leonard Street, 13th floor, Lower Manhattan , (212) 233-1096, artonair.org. (Smith)20101014
Guillermo Kuitca: 'Paintings 2008-2010 and Le Sacre 1992,' through Nov. 6. New paintings and an installation of hand-painted, child-size mattresses from the early '90s, in a freight-size elevator designed to serve as a moving gallery, inaugurate Sperone Westwater's new eight-story edifice designed by Foster + Partners. The building is weirdly narrow -- a sliver -- and Mr. Kuitca's paintings, which sample conventions of Cubism, cartography and architectural planning, with coils of thorny vines adding an allegory of tragedy to comment on the trials of modernity, are pretentious and dull. Let's hope future exhibitions liven up the place. Sperone Westwater, 257 Bowery , (212) 999-7337, speronewestwater.com. (Johnson)20101014
'Kunstlerplakate: Artists' Posters from East Germany, 1967-1990,' through Dec. 4. Before the Berlin Wall fell, Socialist Realism was the officially preferred style in art. But as this show of 120 posters promoting art exhibitions, print fairs and related events demonstrates, East German artists often worked in more personal styles, expressing dissent in subtle ways. Focusing mainly on the 1980s, when government censorship was loosening, the silk screens, lithographs and etchings in the show tend toward neo-Expressionist style and symbolically obscure imagery. Though not terrifically arousing visually, for students of prelapsarian East Germany it offers a gold mine of historical information. Grey Art Gallery, New York University, 100 Washington Square East , (212) 998-6780, nyu.edu/greyart. (Johnson)20101014
Out of Town
- African Art Museum of the SMA Fathers: 'Permanent Collection, Part I,' through Jan. 31. If you're looking for some visual magic -- a Yoruba dance mask with a mini-zoo on top; a brocaded body wrap from Ivory Coast that seems to float on air; a 10-foot-high figure of the 1960s Malian soccer hero Salif Keita -- this small, unorthodox museum in a stained-glass-windowed hall beside a church, on the residential campus of a Roman Catholic missionary order in a leafy New Jersey suburb, is for you. 23 Bliss Avenue, Tenafly, N.J. , (201) 894-8611, smafathers.org/museum. (Cotter)20101014
Aldrich Contemporary Art Museum: 'Rackstraw Downes: Under the West Side Highway,' through Jan. 2. This exhibition focuses on the creation of one work by a painter of exceptionally vivid, anti-picturesque scenes in and around New York City. Mr. Downes executed the work, a three-panel, panoramic view from under the West Side Highway at 145th Street, on the spot over a 15-month period ending in 2009. Dozens of drawings and diary entries in notebooks shed light on this painter's process. 258 Main Street, Ridgefield, Conn. , (203) 438-4519, aldrichart.org. (Johnson)20101014
- Anacostia Community Museum: 'Word, Shout, Song: Lorenzo Dow Turner, Connecting Communities Through Language,' through March 27. Housed in a converted movie theater in a predominantly African-American neighborhood that's a cab ride's distance from the National Mall, the Anacostia Community Museum is one of Washington's cultural secrets. Its current exhibition on the scholar Lorenzo Dow Turner (1890-1972), who documented surviving traces of African languages and customs in modern African-American culture, is both an archival homage and a well-paced drama of ideas. Smithsonian Institution, 1901 Fort Place SE, Washington, (202) 633-4820, anacostia.si.edu. (Cotter)20101014
- 'Gods of Angkor: Bronzes From the National Museum of Cambodia,' through Jan. 23. The 36 metal sculptures in this show are all from the National Museum of Cambodia in Phnom Penh, where the Sackler recently helped establish a metals conservation laboratory. Some of the Hindu and Buddhist sculptures in this compact have been beneficiaries of restorative treatment; all are resplendent examples of one of the great art traditions of Asia. Arthur M. Sackler Gallery, Smithsonian Institution, 1050 Independence Avenue SW, Washington , (202) 633-1000, asia.si.edu. (Cotter)20101014
Hessel Museum of Art: 'At Home/Not at Home: Works From the Collection of Martin and Rebecca Eisenberg,' through Dec. 19. The handmade art object -- and generally art as something to be lived with every day -- finds a strong advocate in this exhibition of 150 paintings, sculptures, photographs and derivatives or hybrids, mostly from the last decade. David Hammons, Mary Heilmann, Cindy Sherman, Richard Tuttle, Rirkrit Tiravanija, Martin Creed and Philippe Parreno serve as eminences grises to fivescore younger artists of wildly divergent sensibilities. Matthew Higgs, director of the Manhattan alternate space White Columns, chose the works and expertly corralled them in related clusters, where they talk vociferously among themselves. Bard College, Annandale-on-Hudson, N.Y. , (845) 758-7598, bard.edu. (Smith)20101014
- High Museum of Art: 'Dali: The Late Work,' through Jan. 9. The belief that late Dali is bad Dali, and most Dali is late, is once more disproved -- this time by a sprawling show that will not travel. It affirms that Salvador Dali was some kind of genius with supernal depictive skills and a desperate need to be current, which made him a precursor of Pop, Performance and Pictures art. His self-degrading hucksterism is evident here, along with his willingness to try anything, be it jewelry or holograms. But he is at his feverish best in his paintings, which encompass his faith in God and science, his rivalry with Abstract Expressionism and his determination to modernize Renaissance space. The show is well worth the trip to Atlanta. 1280 Peachtree Street, N.E., Atlanta , (404) 733-4444, high.org. (Smith)20101014
Last Chance
Brooklyn Museum: 'Work of Art: Abdi Farah'; closes on Sunday. This solo exhibition rewards the likable young winner of Bravo's reality show ''Work of Art: The Next Great Artist'' and includes works seen in the final episode: paintings, drawings and cast-resin sculptures exploring the black male body by way of Photoshop and academic realism. The earnest awkwardness of the art in this exhibition, and on the ''Work of Art'' show in general, isn't that surprising, but it's nevertheless disappointing. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park , (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)20101014
A. K. Burns and A. L. Steiner: 'Community Action Center'; closes on Saturday. With a deceptively wholesome yet spot-on title and a cast of dozens, this 69-minute video celebrates the love between women, and occasionally men, with high-spirited, ritualistic spoofs that mean it. Hard-core porn, ''The Blair Witch Project,'' Virginia Woolf's ''Orlando,'' Tom of Finland, Jack Smith and messy installation-art provide both inspiration and targets. Vegetables, sewing and car-washing are all eroticized. Not always for the faint-hearted or without tedious stretches, and hardly a full account of any vein of sexuality, it is nonetheless a fabulously centered communal action and a wonderful way for this forward-looking gallery to return to Chelsea. Taxter & Spengemann, 459 West 18th Street, Chelsea , (212) 924-0212, taxterandspengemann.com. (Smith)20101014
Dan Colen: 'Poetry'; closes on Saturday. Poetry is noticeably absent from this cynical exercise in commanding space, mostly with three colossal, ostentatiously banal found-object sculptures, including a row of 13 customized motorcycles, tipped over like dominoes. Of four immense paintings, the most impressive -- and it's all relative -- are two executed in huge swaths of chewing gum. They have just enough visual vivacity to make you wonder what kind of artist Mr. Colen might be if he ever decides to stop thumbing his nose and grow up. Gagosian Gallery, 555 West 24th Street, Chelsea , (212) 741-1111, gagosian.com. (Smith)20101014
Gabriel Hartley; closes on Saturday. In his impressive American debut, this young British abstractionist uses oil paint, brush and spray can to fashion expanses of folded patterns and luminous colors that neatly split the difference between geometric and organic and give texture a large-scale voluptuousness. He pursues his interests into three dimensions with resin sculptures worked with paint and pigment. The mutual illumination and give-and-take are highly effective and very promising. Foxy Production, 623 West 27th Street, Chelsea , (212) 239-2758, foxyproduction.com. (Smith)20101014
Anton Henning, 'Ferien vom Du!/Abstract Masterpaintings'; closes on Saturday. The conflicted painting of Mr. Henning sometimes brings to mind Gerhard Richter, Sigmar Polke and other German artists who hold the paintbrush, figuratively speaking, at arm's length. Probably the most Richter-esque works in this show, his third at the gallery, are the mostly black-and-white collages that feature Teutonic pinups in bucolic outdoor settings. But in his more expressive landscapes and abstractions on canvas, and in an excellent series of black-and-white videos that show the artist skating on a frozen lake, Mr. Henning finds his own edge. Zach Feuer Gallery, 530 West 24th Street, Chelsea , (212) 989-7700, zachfeuer.com. (Rosenberg)20101014
Justine Kurland & Francesca Woodman; closes on Saturday. This insightful pairing of two female photographers mines the overlap. The large color images of Ms. Kurland, who was born in 1969, present young women in nature in casual, seemingly straightforward situations that skew toward strange. Ms. Woodman (1958-1981) aimed for strange and usually hit it with black-and-white studio works, frequently turning the camera on herself or her friends. A few of her efforts here are set outside, underscoring the not-quite-expected continuity of sensibilities. BravinLee Programs, 526 West 26th Street #211, Chelsea , (212) 462-4404, bravinlee.com. (Smith)20101014
Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Hipsters, Hustlers, and Handball Players: Leon Levinstein's New York Photographs, 1950-1980'; closes on Sunday. Leon Levinstein (1910-88) was not a bad photographer, but viewed against the background of masters like Weegee, Robert Frank and Tina Modotti, Levinstein's focus on the seamier side of metropolitan life looks pretty routine. There are some gems in this show, like the image of two handball players, one hovering off the ground after a shot as his opponent, close to the wall, awaits the rebound. Cartier-Bresson would have envied this magic moment. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)20101014
P.S. 1 Contemporary Art Center: 'Greater New York'; closes on Monday. The third incarnation of this sprawling survey of new art is inspiring for the way it channels artists' ideas and energy and dispiriting for its general inattention to art objects. Elaborately orchestrated, it includes extensive (sometimes daily) performances, participatory pieces and works in progress as well as shows within the show, some of which will change. But while it includes all mediums, it seems to have eyes only for video, performance and, intermittently, photography. Otherwise, few galleries offer much inducement to stop and look. It was not assembled with eyes wide open. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Street, Long Island City, Queens , (718) 784-2084, ps1.org. (Smith)20101014
Pipilotti Rist: 'Heroes of Birth'; closes on Saturday. This Swiss artist's intoxicating work is extraordinarily original, but also in need of change. The two video installations that dominate her latest New York gallery show -- contact high and all -- really only go through the motions. Projected images on rows of semitransparent fabric hung like laundry in one instance, and a chandelier made of women's underwear in the other, integrate space, viewer, object and image more thoroughly than before. But the videos themselves lack Ms. Rist's usual flamboyance of color and sexuality and her sharply postfeminine feminism. Luhring Augustine, 531 West 24th Street, Chelsea , (212) 206-9100, luhringaugustine.com. (Smith)20101014
Rubin Museum of Art: 'Tradition Transformed: Tibetan Artists Respond'; closes on Monday. The Rubin's first foray into contemporary art presents nine artists of Tibetan descent -- two of whom still live in their homeland -- who mix traditional and modern styles and themes. None of them deal directly with the region's politics, but most address collisions between the sacred (East) and the profane (West). Most interesting are works by Kesang Lamdark, including empty beer cans whose perforated bottoms create glowing images of divinities in their dark interiors. Rubin Museum of Art, 150 West 17th Street, Chelsea , (212) 620-5000, rmanyc.org. (Johnson)20101014
- Chris Verene: 'Family'; closes on Saturday. For more than 25 years, Chris Verene has been photographing family and friends in his economically battered hometown, Galesburg, Ill. In the pictures at Postmasters, we meet his parents, his great-aunt Doris and ''a cousin's husband's brother's cousin's cousins,'' along with a friend, Amber, who is seen living with her kids in the back of a car. Individual images can look like sendups of Midwest working-class life; the series as a whole is sweet with ungainly tenderness. Postmasters, 459 West 19th Street, Chelsea , (212) 727-3323, postmastersart.com. (Cotter)20101014
- Whitney Museum of American Art: 'Heat Waves in a Swamp: The Paintings of Charles Burchfield'; closes on Sunday. The 20th-century mystic of American light, Charles Burchfield, spent most of his adult life in a leafy suburb of Buffalo, painting trees aureoled in noon sunshine and gardens pulsing with cricket calls in moonlight. Yet even with nature he was tense and agonized, and this survey, organized by the artist Robert Gober, catches the mood-swing rhythm of his career. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Cotter)20101014

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: MORGAN LIBRARY & MUSEUM: 'ROY LICHTENSTEIN: THE BLACK-AND-WHITE DRAWINGS, 1961-1968,' through Jan. 2. This brilliant show zeroes in on the large finished drawings that brought Lichtenstein's bold Pop Art style to full flower. It counters the notion of his anonymous touch by stressing an egalitarian mix of commercial and fine art techniques (and displaying his drawing tools). The works are free of virtuosic refinement but full of striking contrasts -- the chiseled density of graphite versus the porosity of soft-edged Benday dots and frottage, for example (as in ''Conversation,'' above, from 1962). Formal and physical resonance keeps pace with the pop-cultural kind, which is no mean feat. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org. (Roberta Smith) (PHOTOGRAPH BY ESTATE OF ROY LICHTENSTEIN, COLLECTION OF ROBERT AND JANE MEYERHOFF) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (96%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); PAINTING (89%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); SCULPTURE (79%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (79%); ART COLLECTING (79%); VISUAL ARTISTS (79%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (76%); DOGS (73%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (72%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (71%); POP & ROCK (66%); ANTIDEPRESSANTS (63%); CANNABIS (63%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (63%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (60%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (60%); RESINS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); ABU DHABI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (50%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (84%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2010



397 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2010
Correction Appended 
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 1236 words

HEADLINE: Students Aim for Success With a New View of Vocational School

BYLINE: By MERIBAH KNIGHT

 BODY:
Buzzing with excitement, 72 11th graders sat in the auditorium of Austin Polytechnical Academy recently, waiting to board buses that would take them to the International Manufacturing Technology Show at McCormick Place, the largest show of its kind in the United States.
Carrying clipboards and dressed sharply in khakis and red polo shirts, they listened to Bill Vogel, a school administrator and former factory owner, as he read the questions they were assigned to ask exhibitors about their products and services: ''What kind of lubricant do Index machines use?'' ''How many inserts does it take to make an airplane?'' Mr. Vogel hollered over the chatter.
For some of the students, the show would be the first encounter with a globalized industry that many of them hope to enter after graduation.
The academy, which is located in the struggling Austin neighborhood, is the city's first and only career academy dedicated to occupations in high-skill manufacturing. Dan Swinney, chairman of the Chicago Manufacturing Renaissance Council, founded it in 2007 as a Chicago Public Schools ''performance school.'' Austin Polytech's mission is to redefine vocational education and revive the city's manufacturing industry by educating the next generation of advanced manufacturers -- in effect, students who enter the workforce as hybrids of machinist and engineer. 
Austin Polytech's diverse curriculum is designed to prepare its 381 students for college, but school leaders also encourage them to pursue manufacturing careers that do not require four-year degrees -- an approach that not all educators agree with.
''We're proposing the revitalization of this nation's economy, and places like Austin should be at the forefront of that, not left behind,'' said Mr. Swinney, who worked as a machinist in a factory in the neighborhood early in his career.
In the spring, the first class will be graduating. The Chicago News Cooperative is following three honors students -- Deandre Joyce, Stran'ja Burge and Marquiese Travae Booker -- as they navigate the academic year and carve out their futures. The three are determined to succeed in the school, despite its record of poor academic performance and regardless of its setting, which is rife with violence, poverty and unemployment.
Mr. Joyce, a lanky 17-year old, was among the busload of juniors who went to McCormick Place to mingle with industry veterans. He spent his summer as a paid intern with Hudson Precision Products Company in Broadview, and he is working toward a career in high-tech manufacturing.
Ms. Burge, 18, is taking courses like advanced-placement calculus, and is open to careers outside of manufacturing -- she said she planned to continue her education. ''Not going to college is not an option,'' she said, quoting her grandmother.
Mr. Booker, a 17-year-old senior, said he entered Austin because it was a 10-minute walk from home, not because he had an interest in manufacturing. Now he said he hoped to attend Northern Illinois University and work toward a degree in mechanical engineering or Colombia College for acting.
Where the seniors end up in 2011 is an early test of the school's model for training a workforce that can fill some of the nation's estimated three million vacant positions in science, technology, engineering and math -- or what are now called STEM jobs. Reversing the decline in skilled trades is often cited as crucial to reducing unemployment and keeping the United States competitive in the global economy.
''For the first time we have a younger generation coming up who are less prepared educationally for the world that we have created,'' said Edward Gordon, of Chicago, who wrote the book ''Winning the Global Talent Showdown.''
Mr. Gordon estimated that by 2020 the number of vacant STEM jobs could rise to between 12 and 24 million.
''We are talking here about a significant drag on the U.S. economy,'' he said.
Though the school's curriculum is loaded with liberal arts courses, like black history and world literature, students are also required to graduate with two nationally recognized manufacturing credentials granted by the National Institute for Metalworking Skills. The documents affirm their competency to employers in fields where entry-level salaries can reach $65,000.
''We find in our education system to have a bias toward college prep,'' Mr. Vogel said. ''There are different options.''
A representative of Chicago Public Schools said officials there support the concept of career academies, yet administrators at Austin Polytech said it had been a challenge to get the school's staff fully behind the vocational agenda. The biggest obstacle, Mr. Swinney said, is the outdated view of manufacturing as consisting mainly of unskilled, low-paying jobs, rather than the high-tech positions they have become, offering skilled workers secure employment and good salaries.
''Where we have gotten push-back is they see us as shuttling students to be a cog in a wheel,'' said Erica Swinney, Mr. Swinney's daughter and the director of career and community programs at Austin Polytech.
Steven McIlrath, Austin Polytech's math teacher, said he did not object to careers in the trades. ''Making stuff is a good honest living -- there is nothing wrong with that,'' said Mr. McIlrath, who lives in the neighborhood and has worked in the building for the last 16 years. ''But my caution with that is that we can't be a sorting machine.''
Hudson Precision Products Company in Broadview, where Deandre Joyce spent his summer as an intern, is one of the school's 65 partners. Most of the partners are private companies based in Chicago that have donated money to the school for equipment, as well as for teaching and administrative positions. Polytech's machine room, filled with manual as well as computer-controlled machines, was financed with donations totaling nearly $100,000 from WaterSaver Faucet Company and the Tooling and Manufacturing Association.
''What is amazing is that in the middle of a recession you have private-sector investment in public education on the West Side of Chicago,'' Mr. Swinney said.
As the bus headed to McCormick Place, it passed near the abandoned Brach's Candy factory, which was closed in 2003 and relocated to Dallas. With its 3,700 jobs, it was once the heart of Austin's vibrant manufacturing industry. Now it is better known for being blown up during the filming of ''The Dark Knight.''
When the students arrived at the convention center, 11 miles from where they had started, they filed into the show wearing badges printed with ''Future Customer'' in place of their names. In 1980, 90 percent of the exhibitors were American companies; now about 10 percent are.
The students watched robots playing blackjack and making small metal airplanes, which a robot then handed to a few lucky observers. As they walked by the Hardinge Inc. booth, a Brazilian employee with a thick accent pointed at the group of students. ''The future,'' he said.
Learning Tools: This is the first article in a series that will follow three students at Austin Polytechnical Academy, a school that trains students to fill the labor gap in high-tech manufacturing.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 22, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A story last Friday about Austin Polytechnical Academy misspelled the surname of an administrator at the school. He is Bill Vogel, not Vogal.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, Steven McIlrath, who teaches AP calculus at Austin Polytechnical Academy, solved a problem on an overhead projector. At left, Deandre Joyce, second from left, in class. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOHN KONSTANTARAS/CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE) CHART: Manufacturing Jobs In Top Metro Areas: Employed people 16 years and older in 2009: (Source: U.S. Census American Community Survey) (A21B) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (90%); MACHINE TOOLS (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); ADVANCED PLACEMENT PROGRAMS (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); CURRICULA (76%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); LABOR FORCE (75%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (74%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (71%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (93%) ILLINOIS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2010



398 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; SEOUL JOURNAL; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1195 words

HEADLINE: Rising Prices Create A Kimchi Crisis

BYLINE: By MARK McDONALD

 BODY:
SEOUL, South Korea -- Even in the middle of a loud and bustling outdoor market, her voice drops to a whisper when she agrees to reveal the two secret ingredients that make her kimchi so popular with her customers.
''Fermented-anchovy paste and pickled-prune sauce,'' says Kim Gil-soo, looking warily, both ways, down the alley in front of her store, called Prosperity.
''I special-order the sauce from a certain place in the countryside,'' she said, still whispering. ''I'm quite well known for my kimchi.''
But recent sales have been disappointing, Mrs. Kim said, because of an unavoidable spike in the price of her kimchi, the fiery and pungent Korean national dish that typically combines cabbage, radishes, red chili peppers, garlic and salt. The price for one head of long-leafed Napa cabbage grown in Korea has skyrocketed in the past month, to as much as $14, from about $2.50. Domestic radishes have tripled in price, to more than $5 apiece, and the price of garlic has more than doubled. 
Kimchi has become so expensive that some restaurants in the capital no longer offer it free as a banchan, or side dish, a situation akin to having an American burger joint charge for ketchup, although decidedly more calamitous here. The politics editor of a major South Korean newspaper called the kimchi situation ''a national tragedy,'' and an editorial in Dong-a Ilbo termed it ''a once in a century crisis.''
Wholesalers and economists have blamed overly rainy weather for the cabbage shortage, as well as fewer acres having been planted after a bumper crop and low prices in 2009. The average price for a head of Napa cabbage last year was $1.40, according to food industry figures.
The opposition Democratic Party also has laid blame for the shortages on a large river-reclamation project, saying it destroyed farmland that would have been used for cabbages and other vegetables, a charge the government has denied.
Meanwhile, there have been reports of cabbage rustling in rural areas, and the government has suspended tariffs on imported cabbage and radishes from China, beginning Thursday. The president of South Korea, Lee Myung-bak, has said that until the crisis eases he will eat only the cheap and inferior kind of cabbage -- the round-headed variety commonly found in Europe and the United States.
''There is no reason for regular folks to have to buy items integral to daily life at higher prices than international prices,'' Mr. Lee said at a cabinet meeting on Tuesday, while instructing his economists to more closely monitor commodity prices that have sent the South Korean consumer price index to a 17-month high.
The price increases have caused many middle- and lower-income homemakers to cancel the making of kimchi at home this year, a traditional rite of autumn that typically brings together mothers, daughters, aunts, grannies and neighbors. Some families can go through a couple of hundred heads of cabbage, and it's not unusual for all the bathtubs and sinks in a house to be filled with bobbing cabbages as they are washed, soaked and brined.
''I'm probably not going to do it at home this year,'' said Roh Eun-ja, a Seoul restaurant owner. ''Even if the price of cabbage comes down and I do make kimchi, I'll be downsizing. Not so much this year.''
Mrs. Roh has two daughters, both in their 30s, and she said they learned to make kimchi ''by looking over my shoulder, by tasting and doing, like all Korean girls are supposed to.''
One daughter works at an Outback steakhouse, the other at an upscale department store, and they have little time to make kimchi on their own, Mrs. Roh said, lamenting the loss of another tradition to the ''ppali ppali'' or ''hurry hurry'' lifestyle of modern South Korea.
''It's also more expensive to make it on your own,'' Mrs. Roh said, ''so more and more people buy it ready-made now. That's what my daughters do.''
Supermarkets have reportedly had difficulty keeping packaged kimchi in stock. A pouch of the popular Chongga Jip brand, made solely from Korean ingredients, sold this week for $4.05 a pound -- about half the price of homemade.
Some Koreans are taking the kimchi crisis in stride, saying it is a blip in the market. At her food stall in the sprawling Mo Rae Ne market in western Seoul, Lee Young-ae still serves free kimchi to the vendors and laborers who come by for a $5 plate of roasted pig cheeks, blood sausage and her famous soondae soup.
''The prices will go down,'' she said. ''Sometimes they're high, sometimes they're low. Easy come, easy go. That's life.''
The making of kimchi is more art than science, more a craft than a repeatable recipe. There are hundreds of variations, with varying ingredients, colorations, textures and levels of heat. As well as a condiment, kimchi is eaten in Korea as a main dish, in soups, stews or with fried rice. There are kimchi burgers, kimchi bacon rolls and kimchi pizza.
''Even if it's pickled and fermented, if it's your national dish and you're in Asia, believe me, they'll find a way to make it special,'' said the celebrity chef Bobby Chinn, the host of World Cafe Asia, a travel and cooking television show. ''For Asians it's a popular alternative to salads.''
The cabbages are not usually shredded or dismembered, and the salted leaves are slathered with spices, sauces and pastes. The intact cabbages are then placed in earthenware jars and buried in the ground. (Apartment dwellers and urbanites now use stainless steel containers or special kimchi refrigerators.) The cabbages then pickle and ferment into the eye-watering dish served year-round in Korea, at breakfast, lunch and dinner.
Most Koreans see kimchi as a staple food, even a daily necessity, a kind of health food. During the SARS panic in Asia in 2003, the rumor spread widely that kimchi was an effective antidote.
For most Westerners, however, kimchi remains an unacquired taste. It can offend not only with its taste but also with its odor, which can linger on a person for hours. And for those unused to its fire and fury, even a small dish of kimchi can appear less as a delicacy than as a kind of incendiary device.
''To a Western palate, with all the other options out there, kimchi won't rank very high,'' Mr. Chinn said.
A gathering was held in Seoul last week to promote Korean food, with European master chefs coming in for panels and demonstrations. Michel Troisgros, the renowned French chef from Roanne, listened to a Korean official hold forth on the wonders of fermentation and an ambitious project to export Korean foods like kimchi.
''I think you have to stop talking about fermentation,'' Mr. Troisgros told the man. ''It's not sexy.''

CORRECTION-DATE: October 19, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A picture on Friday with the Seoul Journal article, about an increase in the price of kimchi, the fiery and pungent South Korean national dish, was published in error. The array of side dishes shown for sale at a Seoul market included black beans, dried cuttlefish, fish roe, seaweed, garlic stems and various vegetable roots -- but no kimchi, which typically mixes cabbage, radishes, red chili peppers, garlic and salt.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: This month, shoppers in Seoul lined up to buy Napa cabbage, a key ingredient of kimchi, whose cost was subsidized by the city. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JO YONG-HAK/REUTERS)
 Kimchi for sale at a Seoul market. While the dish is traditionally made at home, some are turning to ready-made varieties. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BASIL CHILDERS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (86%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (75%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); RESTAURANTS (71%); POLITICS (70%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (69%); IMPORT TRADE (65%); POLITICAL PARTIES (65%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (64%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (60%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (60%); TALKS & MEETINGS (60%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (50%)

PERSON: LEE MYUNG-BAK (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); EUROPE (76%)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2010



399 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 279 words

HEADLINE: Obama on Defensive at Forum

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama was put on the defensive on issues including the economy, gay rights and race relations during a televised town-hall-style forum on Thursday that captured the disillusionment taking root among younger voters who were a significant force in his election. 
Mr. Obama fielded questions from audience members and Twitter users during an hour streamed live on the Web sites of the sponsors, Viacom's BET, CMT and MTV.
A black man at the gathering complained that despite the government's costly actions, ''our unemployment rate still rises,'' and businesses uncertain about taxes are not hiring college graduates like him. Mr. Obama said that most of the unemployed had lost their jobs before he took office, that his policies averted another Depression and that he has lowered taxes for individuals and businesses.
To a woman who asked why he does not order an end to the ''don't ask, don't tell'' policy for gay soldiers, Mr. Obama noted that the policy is federal law and that he is trying to get Congress to repeal it. The policy ''will end on my watch,'' he said.
To a Twitter question, Mr. Obama said he did not think being gay was a choice: ''I think people are born with a certain makeup and that we're all children of God.''
A graduate student, citing Arizona's immigration law and the opposition to an Islamic center in New York, said race relations in the country seem to have deteriorated since the idealism inspired by Mr. Obama's election, and he asked, ''What happened?'' Mr. Obama said racial progress has been fitful throughout history, and ''oftentimes misunderstandings and antagonism surfaces most strongly when economic times are tough.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); GAYS & LESBIANS (78%); LGBT RIGHTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (74%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (74%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); US STATE IMMIGRATION LAW (73%); LAYOFFS (70%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (70%); IMMIGRATION LAW (67%); HISTORY (64%); ARIZONA IMMIGRATION LAW (64%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (64%); RELIGION (64%); IMMIGRATION (50%)

COMPANY: VIACOM INC (57%)

TICKER: VIA (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (57%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2010



400 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1014 words

HEADLINE: One Brother Lies Low as Another Faces Tight Race in Colorado

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

 BODY:
TRINIDAD, Colo. -- The Salazar family name has been a leading political brand in Colorado for years. It has also been shorthand for a big-thought Democratic Party strategy of carrying the West that the Salazar brothers, John and Ken, helped invent and articulate as shoulder-to-shoulder voices of deep-country Colorado, where they grew up and where John still runs the family potato farm. The Salazar formula: rural and urban coalitions around centrist, libertarian-tinged politics, mixing support for gun rights with an ability to look natural in a cowboy hat.
But this year the chemistry is different. 
John Salazar, seeking a fourth term in Congress in Colorado's Third District, is facing a Republican challenger, Scott Tipton, who lost by a large margin to Mr. Salazar in 2006 but is now running neck and neck heading toward November.
Ken Salazar, meanwhile, resigned from the Senate last year to become secretary of the interior in the Obama administration, which is not held in high regard with many voters in John's huge, conservative district.
The result: brothers in arms now at arm's length.
For example, a radio attack ad this month that was aimed at John Salazar repeatedly misidentified the congressman as Ken. To many people it seemed a funny goof. The advertisement, by an anti-abortion rights group that blamed its advertising production company for the name confusion, has since been pulled. But John Salazar is not so sure the Ken/John transposition was purely accidental.
''I've been thinking about that; I don't know,'' he said in an interview. He had heard that some conservative groups, including one affiliated with Karl Rove, have made his race a priority.
''He would love to make me a poster child because he feels like he can get at the administration a lot quicker,'' Mr. Salazar said, referring to Mr. Rove. (A spokesman for Mr. Rove's main group, American Crossroads, said that as of Wednesday, it had committed no money to the race.)
President Obama, who lost in this mostly rural, conservative district in 2008, even while winning Colorado as a whole, is probably even less popular now, many people here say.
And Ken Salazar, famous brother of the congressman, has mostly been notable for his absence during John's campaigning in the Third District.
John Salazar said his brother had been ''really busy'' in recent weeks, dealing with the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico and other business. Asked directly if his brother's close association with the Obama administration had hurt him, Mr. Salazar nodded.
''Probably,'' he said. Meanwhile, outside money has become increasingly important in pointing out the connections between John Salazar and the Democratic leadership in Washington.
Mr. Salazar has had about $642,000 spent against him -- the bulk of that from a group called Americans for Job Security -- and none spent in support by outside groups, according to the Sunlight Foundation, which tracks political contributions. About $283,000 has been deployed by outside groups against Mr. Tipton, and $2,900 in support.
Americans for Job Security works out of space that is sublet from a Republican consulting shop, Crossroads Media, whose other clients include the national Republican Party, the Republican Governors Association and American Crossroads, Mr. Rove's group, according to a New York Times article about the group last month.
The spokesman for American Crossroads, Jonathan Collegio, said his group and Americans for Job Security were not affiliated.
Mr. Tipton, a small-business owner from southwest Colorado who is backed by Tea Party groups, said he thought the era of the Salazars' tag-teaming, each brother benefiting the other's voter base, was over no matter what.
''If there were coattails, and maybe there were, they're not applicable this time,'' he said.
Mr. Tipton said he also thought voters had been turned off by Ken Salazar's actions as interior secretary in imposing new rules on oil and gas development on public lands -- a major issue, especially in western Colorado.
''That's a concern on the west slope of Colorado: his brother's actions in Washington on oil and gas jobs and how it's affecting the economy,'' Mr. Tipton said.
In interviews here in the district -- a vast stretch of rural southern Colorado about the size of Arkansas that includes some of the poorest corners of the state -- a more complicated picture emerged. The race, and the attitudes about the Salazars, voters said, are filtered through a thick set of local issues, from health care to the empty storefronts on Main Street in this Hispanic-flavored city near the New Mexico border.
At an outdoor event in La Junta, a farming community about 80 miles northeast, Ed Stafford, 70, a retired drama teacher, said he would stick with Mr. Salazar mainly because of Mr. Salazar's fight to keep the Army from expanding its training grounds at Pinon Canyon -- a huge local issue, he said.
But to Andrea Schlegel, the Salazar name itself has become a turnoff.
Ms. Schlegel, 34, said she was a registered Democrat but had never supported either Salazar and did not intend to this time.
''They're out for themselves,'' said Ms. Schlegel, who described herself as unemployed and recovering from a car accident.
Her husband, David, though, is undecided. The bad economy in this part of the state, and his conclusions about which parties and candidates can best address the problem, is what will nudge him one way or another between now and the election, he said.
''Everything feels like it's shrinking,'' said Mr. Schlegel, 37, who recently went back to school here, studying to be a nurse, after the construction contracting work he had been doing collapsed.
John Salazar, meanwhile, said he is confident that the mix of Democrats, Republicans and unaffiliated voters who supported him in the past will be there for him this time as well -- partly because he thinks people are increasingly turned off by extremes, and extreme talk, in both parties.
''All of you know that I'm a centrist,'' he told a small crowd in La Junta. ''I think that's what's lacking in Washington these days.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Representative John Salazar, center, at a rally in La Junta, is in a tightening race against a G.O.P. rival whom he beat in 2006. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KEVIN MOLONEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Colorado's 3rd District: Liberals need not apply in this rural district. Representative John Salazar, a moderate Democrat, and his opponent, Scott Tipton, a Republican, are fighting over an electorate shaped by agriculture, energy and a culturally conservative but usually Democratic-leaning Hispanic minority. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); RIGHT TO BEAR ARMS (70%); GUN CONTROL (70%); RADIO ADVERTISING (66%); OIL SPILLS (50%); ABORTION (50%)

PERSON: JOHN T SALAZAR (94%); KEN SALAZAR (89%); KARL ROVE (78%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); SCOTT TIPTON (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (94%); GULF OF MEXICO (65%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (65%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2010

 
