

1 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; DANCE REVIEW; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 371 words

HEADLINE: Honoring Festive Traditions While Making New Friends

BYLINE: By JACK ANDERSON

 BODY:
Drums throbbed, feet stamped and theatergoers cheered when DanceAfrica 2004 came to the Brooklyn Academy of Music on Friday night. Chuck Davis, artistic director of this annual festival, makes sure that it is always entertaining. 
 As usual he tried to turn the event into a genial gathering of friends by asking members of the audience to introduce themselves to one another. But he also made clear that a dance performance can be a serious, and even a sacred, event. 
 The program, subtitled ''A Dancer's Path: Ancient Traditions, Modern Trends,'' began with a processional honoring the elders of dance. Names of those who had died were read as a memorial. Dances onstage, the ceremonies implied, are all part of the great dance of life.
 After that, joy prevailed: joy arising out of a sense of communal solidarity and human dignity. 
 Nii Tettey Tetteh and the Kusun Ensemble, from Ghana, presented a wonderfully energetic suite of dances. Soloists jumped over one another. Some men engaged in a quivering contest. There were many twists and flip-flops, as well as a dance in which people bumped comically into one another. 
 A suite from Mali and Guinea by the Bambara Drum and Dance Ensemble of New York featured an expert percussion ensemble. But as hands drummed drums, feet drummed on the floor. Lines of dancers swayed and shook while exultantly raising and lowering their arms. As people galloped, their thrusting arms flew from side to side. 
 The BAM/Restoration DanceAfrica Ensemble, a group of young people from Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, crouched and rose and let their feet pound against the floor as they circled the stage in ''Atsiagbekor,'' a war dance of the Ewe people. 
 A village festival was evoked in ''Econne-Conne'' and ''Lengen,'' as danced by the Ezibu Muntu African Dance Company, founded at Virginia Commonwealth University in Richmond. People swept the space to prepare it for dancing and then gathered in it, jumping happily and kicking with glee. 
 From time to time throughout the evening, Shaka Zulu, a traditional stilt dancer from New Orleans, crossed the stage, towering over it like a benign giant. He also performed a solo in which he kicked, leaped and held spectacular balance, all on stilts.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Rita Teaiwiah of the ensemble Kusun performing at DanceAfrica 2004 at the Brooklyn Academy. (Photo by Richard Termine for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DANCE (92%); DANCERS (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); DANCE COMPANIES (89%); PERCUSSION INSTRUMENTS (79%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%) Dancing; Reviews; Danceafrica (Dance Festival)

PERSON: Jack Anderson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (51%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); VIRGINIA, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (90%); MALI (79%); GHANA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2004



2 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 470 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Medicare Discount Cards To Be Introduced Today
Elderly people begin using Medicare drug discount cards today in an experiment that has gotten off to a slow start but promises to have big implications for politics and health policy, regardless of whether it delivers big savings.
 The program is the first major test of the new Medicare law before the November elections. If discount cards do not deliver the promised savings, the experiment could stoke public anger over drug prices and increase political pressure for further steps to make drugs more affordable. [Page A1.]

High Gas Prices Take Toll
For most of the last six months, as fuel prices soared, Americans seemed for the most part to be coping with little difficulty. But the big numbers at the pump have quietly but palpably begun to take a toll, judging by nearly two dozen interviews with consumers and businesses in Denver. [Page A1.]

Holiday Box Office Surges
''Shrek 2'' and ''The Day After Tomorrow'' lifted the Memorial Day weekend box office to a record high, although moviegoers largely ignored many other new releases. According to studio estimates, ''Shrek 2'' earned $92.2 million for the four days beginning on Friday; ''Day After'' earned $86 million. [C8.]

British Clothier Names New Chief
Marks & Spencer named Stuart Rose as its chief executive as it prepared to face an offer of $16.5 billion. The company also named Paul Myners as interim chairman.[C3.]

20 Questions Time Again
Here are 20 questions you might want to ask about marketing, advertising, popular culture and media. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [C8.]

Serving Time and Then Advice
Executives who have gone to prison for corporate crimes are now serving up advice. [C8.]

Hotels Grow More Aggressive
Some business travelers are finding hotels are becoming pushier about recruiting members for loyalty programs. Those who resist might find themselves in less-desirable rooms, or saddled with surcharges. [C7.]

Change in Selling Tactics
Sun Microsystems plans today to announce a new pricing model for selling to governments of developing nations based on population size and degree of industrialization. [C2.]

Canadian Growth Is Moderate
Canada's economy expanded at an annual rate of 2.4 percent, adjusted for inflation, in the first quarter, Statistics Canada reported. The figure exceeded analysts' predictions, but slowed from the 3.3 percent pace of the final three months of 2003. [C4.]

Film Company Weighs Options
The Belgian image technology group Agfa Gevaert said yesterday that it had hired Goldman Sachs to help decide what to do with its troubled film unit, which has been hit by the declining use of film. [C4.]

U.S. Financial Markets Reopen
The United States financial markets, government offices and banks were closed yesterday in observance of Memorial Day. The markets will reopen today.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Tune Up, Take Off, Pay Up''The Memorial Day weekend signals the start of the summer driving season. AAA estimates that the average summer road trip will cover about 800 miles. The higher cost of gas will make travel more expensive, but so will a car that is not tuned up.The coast of a summer road trip2000 MODEL: Honda CivicGALLONS: 811 MILES -- 26.162000 MODEL: Chevrolet ImpalaGALLONS: 811 MILES -- 27.972000 MODEL: Ford ExplorerGALLONS: 811 MILES -- 40.552003: $1.49 A GALLON* Car in tuneLow tire pressure, misfiring spark plugsCar in tune2004: $2.06 A GALLON**National average price per gallon as of May 28 each year(Sources by AAA
 Energy Information Administration)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (91%); DRUG PRICES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (88%); SENIOR CITIZENS (79%); HEALTH INSURANCE (79%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); HEALTH CARE LAW (74%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (74%); MOVIE REVENUES (73%); STATISTICS (73%); FILM (73%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (73%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); ELECTIONS (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (68%); TICKET SALES (68%); JAIL SENTENCING (68%); HOTELS & MOTELS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MARKS & SPENCER GROUP PLC (54%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (52%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%)

TICKER: MKS (LSE) (54%); GS (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (54%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (54%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (52%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (52%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (52%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (51%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (51%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

PERSON: STUART ROSE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2004



3 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: Grading The President

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS. 
E-mail: dabrooks@nytimes.com

 BODY:
A few weeks ago, The National Journal, the highly respected and highly expensive Washington policy magazine, asked a dozen distinguished and politically independent economists to grade the Bush administration's economic performance. The magazine surveyed people like Charles Schultze of the Brookings Institution, the longtime Federal Reserve economist Lyle Gramley, David Wyss of Standard & Poor's, among others -- a pretty good sampling of mainstream economic thinking. 
 As a group, the panel gave the Bush team a B-plus for short-term fiscal policy, a C-minus for long-term fiscal policy, a B for regulatory policy and a B-minus for trade and international economics. These aren't the grades that win you a Rhodes scholarship, but they're not too bad. 
 I thought it might be interesting to see what the Bush people themselves thought of their marks, so I brought The National Journal into the White House and asked a few senior officials to respond.
 Their first answer, not surprisingly, is that you have to understand the reality that confronted them when they took office in 2001. Business leaders were calling in to say that economic activity was falling off a cliff. The dot-com bubble was over, manufacturing was getting hit, business confidence was plummeting. Before it became a general concern in the papers, administration folks were worrying that the U.S. might go through a Japanese-style stagnation. Deflation was an unlikely but scary possibility.
 They decided to do what was necessary to head off any immediate catastrophe. As Stephen Friedman, director of the National Economic Council, sums it up, ''We didn't want to err on the light side when it comes to stimulus.'' Hence, the large tax cuts. 
 They wouldn't admit it to me, but I think the administration folks knew they were kicking several large problems down the road. Still, they did a reasonably good job of responding to the immediate crisis. Republicans do not believe that government is supple enough to time a fiscal stimulus effectively, but this is the one (and possibly only) instance when officials recognized a problem early and timed the response well. 
 There are four big objections to the tax cuts. The first is that you don't cut taxes in a time of war. This is the least persuasive. Some outside economists say the cuts created or preserved 1.5 million jobs. It's hard to see how the war effort would have been enhanced with those people out of work. If we had wanted to create a sense of shared sacrifice, which we should have, it would have been far better to institute an ambitious national service program.
 The second objection is that the cuts were poorly designed. They were drawn up in the midst of prosperity and then wheeled out in response to recession. Even Decision Economics' Allen Sinai, a big supporter of the cuts, says the stimulus could have been stronger if more of the cuts had been distributed down the income scale. The White House lacks a compelling response to this. 
 The third argument is that the cuts should have been temporary. White House folks argue persuasively that given the rolling series of blows -- the bubble, the corporate scandals, the war jitters -- a short-term stimulus would not have worked. ''You were not going to get a sustained recovery from something temporary,'' Friedman says. 
 The final and most serious argument is that whatever the short-term benefits, the tax cuts have left us with a long-term fiscal mess. When you ask administration folks about the deficit problem, they argue that it isn't caused primarily by the cuts, but by rising health care costs and the aging baby boomers. That's true, but it evades the fact that the tax cuts made the situation worse.
 I realize it's now practically illegal to have modulated views about anything related to the Bush administration, but I'd say it deserves the grades the National Journal economists gave it. What I don't understand is why the administration doesn't now pivot and say: O.K., we had a potential crisis. We prevented it. Now the recovery is in full swing. Let's address the long-term problems. Let's talk about the consequences of the aging baby boomers. Let's talk about reforming the tax code to encourage domestic savings.
 After all, this election will probably hinge on Iraq anyway. The Bush folks might as well roll the dice with some attention-grabbing domestic ideas. That way if Bush is re-elected, he'll have a mandate to do something big. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); DEFLATION (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); RECESSION (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2004



4 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR: STRATEGY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1268 words

HEADLINE: U.S. SHIFTS FOCUS IN IRAQ TO AIDING NEW GOVERNMENT

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, May 31 

 BODY:
Senior American commanders here say they are writing new orders to shift the focus of the military's mission from offensive combat operations to protecting a new Iraqi government and parts of the economy while building up Iraq's own security forces.
 The decision reflects the commanders' assessment of how best to support the transition to an Iraqi government on June 30. But the shift away from combat operations may be viewed by some Iraqis as a further step back from disarming Iraq's insurgents before the transfer of sovereignty, although American policy remains that the militias are illegal.
 The American commanders say there should be no doubt that they will continue to respond forcefully to challenges from insurgents between now and June 30, and then beyond to Iraqi elections scheduled for six months later. 
 Adnan Pachachi, the former Iraqi foreign minister, emerged Monday as the leading candidate to become the new Iraqi president. American officials signaled that they would announce a new interim government on Tuesday. [Page A8.] 
 But in recent weeks, after an intense standoff in Falluja, American forces chose to negotiate a deal that allowed Iraqi fighters to melt away, rather than risk inflicting high numbers of civilian casualties and deepening Iraqi alienation. 
 The number of insurgents and terrorists operating in Iraq ''will never go to zero,'' said Lt. Gen. Thomas F. Metz, who on May 15 assumed command of a new multinational corps headquarters that controls the day-to-day military operations in Iraq.
 ''But what we've got to do is build this base of support,'' he said, ''of people who want to be free, who want to live under a rule of law and want to be prosperous.'' 
 At the same time, skeptics may question how shifting away from combat operations would make that goal any more achievable now than during the last year, when American forces actively engaged a resistance determined to sow chaos. But commanders argue that a new emphasis on protecting roadways, power plants, utility lines and the oil industry will help generate support for a new government and enhance the security situation as the economy improves.
 The shift in emphasis is not expected to affect American troop levels, now about 138,000.
 General Metz acknowledged that even the new priorities, particularly building up a reliable Iraqi security force and protecting the economic infrastructure, had already proved difficult and were not themselves risk free. ''It's clear that we have to continue to put energy -- and maybe more energy, time, resources, people -- into building Iraqi security structure capacity,'' he said. ''It probably needs to be a higher priority than the combat operations.'' 
 He added: ''The payoff of building Iraqi capacity is more valuable than the payoff of combat operations. So we begin to shift priorities.''
 Commanders have taken to saying that while the American military cannot be defeated in Iraq, it also cannot declare a victory without parallel progress on the political and economic fronts. But the intensifying violence of recent months has drawn most American attention.
 ''The day that you can get the economy a little better and employ a few more people, that's a few more people who will not be carrying AK-47's that night,'' General Metz said.
 ''So your security is a little bit better,'' he added. ''And the next day, because the security is a little bit better, the economy is a little bit better. And as security grows, the economy grows.''
 As the new commander of daily military operations, General Metz's responsibility for tactics frees the higher military command here to focus on the transition to Iraqi sovereignty and to serve as liaison with a new American diplomatic mission and the emerging Iraqi government.
 The multinational force commander is Lt. Gen. Ricardo S. Sanchez, who is set to leave Iraq over the summer and will be replaced by Gen. George W. Casey Jr., according to senior Pentagon officials.
 ''General Sanchez's headquarters and mine are working through an operations order that we want to put out to the force that helps articulate what our new priorities need to be during this transition and afterwards,'' General Metz said of the effort to refocus the mission.
 But he issued a clear warning to ''anybody who misinterprets our focus away from combat operations and onto other things like Iraqi security capacity and infrastructure protection.''
 ''We will always maintain a quick-reaction force, with very lethal combat capability,'' he said. ''If someone thinks there is a vacuum and wants to enter it with conventional forces, you better believe we are ready.''
 Indeed, the only pause in the pace of operations here on Monday was for a brief Memorial Day ceremony. Under a crystal chandelier and surrounded by marble columns, a temporary monument of boots, dog tags, a rifle and helmet stood as ''Amazing Grace'' and taps echoed through the ornate rotunda.
 More than 800 American troops have died since the opening of military operations in Iraq.
 In drafting the new orders, commanders carefully scrutinized efforts over recent weeks to quiet guerrilla violence in Falluja, a Sunni stronghold west of Baghdad where insurgents killed four American contractors at the end of March.
 The military's plans to invade Falluja, where marines were harried with mortars, improvised bombs and small-arms fire, were later set aside in favor of using a new all-Iraqi brigade to patrol the city.
 The decision was criticized as placing Falluja in the hands of former Iraqi military officers, who recruited at least some former guerrillas. But American commanders described it as necessary.
 ''We had all the combat power necessary to finish that job in a couple of days,'' General Metz said. ''But having done that, there were many who thought the strategic value of that was not only zero, it could have been negative.'' He alluded particularly to the risk of numerous civilian casualties.
 ''So the decision was to take a tactical pause and let the strategy and politics work itself out,'' he added. ''The route we chose to go clearly saved a lot of lives.''
 In southern Iraq, the uprising in Najaf and Karbala by militiamen loyal to the radical Shiite cleric Moktada al-Sadr was similarly met with restraint on the part of the military, conscious of the possibility of civilian casualties and the sacredness of Najaf's shrines to Shiite Muslims.
 Those shrines, in central Najaf, were marked by American commanders as off limits for attack. So were other mosques or shrines, which could be hit only if they were being used by Iraqi militiamen as arsenals or snipers' nests.
 ''It was tough militarily, but strategically the right thing to do,'' General Metz said of the decision not to invade Najaf's holiest sites, where Mr. Sadr is believed to be hiding.
 But the question of how to accelerate the formation of qualified Iraqi security forces is equally difficult. Their performance in the April uprising around Falluja ranged from heroic to horrible. 
 ''The good news out of April was that we learned the real capability of the Iraqi security forces, rather than learning it in June or July or August,'' General Metz said.
 In addition, he said, the military has ''finally broken the logjam on contracts'' that slowed the delivery of gear for the new Iraqi security forces.
 The goal now, he said, is to form a partnership with Iraqi security forces, and to assure that Iraqi troops are under the command of an Iraqi officer. The new forces, the general said, want ''an Iraqi chain of command that they are proud of and are willing to go fight for.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Lt. Gen. Thomas F. Metz in Baghdad yesterday. He now commands day-to-day operations in Iraq. (Photo by Michael Kamber for The New York Times)(pg. A9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (70%); TERRORISM (70%); DISARMAMENT (70%); POWER PLANTS (66%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (66%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (66%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2004



5 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1469 words

HEADLINE: With Its Gas Prices Already High, Europe Is Less Rattled by Jump

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, May 31 

 BODY:
Alexandra Krauter paid little attention as the digits on the gasoline pump flashed upward. Ms. Krauter, a 29-year-old woman who works in a Frankfurt restaurant, was not even sure how much she was paying (1.15 euros a liter, or the equivalent of $5.31 a gallon).
 ''I don't think the price is appropriate, but I don't care that much about gas prices,'' Ms. Krauter, as she waited restlessly beside her pint-size Fiat. ''I've got other things to worry about.''
 Few Europeans are as nonchalant about the high cost of fuel as Ms. Krauter. But her attitude gets at a basic difference in the way Europeans and Americans view the current spike in the price of oil. 
 While the arrival of $2 a gallon gasoline has rattled many Americans -- reviving memories of the oil shocks of the 1970's -- Europeans have reacted with relative equanimity. Gas is so heavily taxed in most European countries that a jump in the market price is less noticeable here. And the recent strength of the euro versus the dollar has insulated consumers.
 Moreover, Europe, after three decades of seeking alternatives to oil, is somewhat less vulnerable to the effects of higher crude prices. Oil and natural gas still lubricate Europe's economy, to be sure, and industrial countries like Germany remain among the world's largest importers.
 But for a variety of reasons -- ranging from smaller cars and shorter commutes to the windmills that dot the countryside from Denmark to Spain -- Europe does not view $40-a-barrel oil with the same alarm. Indeed, some here see it as a chance to redouble Europe's campaign to wean itself from fossil fuels.
 ''We talked about high oil prices in the past, but it was hypothetical,'' said Peter Ahmels, the president of Germany's Federal Association on Wind Energy. ''Now people are asking, 'Could the oil supply run out?'''
 In 2000, a rise in the price of fuel was compounded by higher taxes, which ignited protests and blockades by truckers from Britain to Germany. This time, officials here hope, the high prices will rekindle an appreciation for windmills, solar panels and other alternative energy sources.
 Germany is the world's largest producer of wind energy, with 15,800 turbines generating 15,000 megawatts of electricity, or 6 percent of its total supply. But parts of the country, notably Bavaria, have been loath to build windmills because of complaints that they blight the landscape.
 Now, with higher oil prices, those objections may lose some force. ''It's one very strong point for us,'' Mr. Ahmels said.
 With a renewed commitment, he said he thinks Germany could nearly double its wind generation capacity by 2010. And the development of offshore windmill farms could eventually enable wind to account for 15 percent of Germany's electricity supply, despite the country's relatively meager coastline.
 Solar energy is also growing, with the production of solar cells almost doubling last year. The German solar power industry, which is subsidized by the government, will generate more than 1 billion euros ($1.2 billion) in revenue in 2004, according to an industry group.
 Europe's push for renewable energy began as a response to the 1970's oil shock, which was as traumatic here as in the United States. Over the years, however, the campaign for clean energy has been driven less by fears of dwindling oil than a desire to protect the environment.
 In Germany, the Green Party, far from being a lobbying group on the sidelines, is part of the government. Germans accept, as environmental imperative, things that Americans would find bizarre -- like sorting household garbage into four separate bins for recycling, or paying 70 cents of every euro at the pump in the form of taxes, to drive down fuel consumption.
 ''It is a Green position to force an energy policy which reduces our dependency on oil,'' said Rezzo Schlauch, a Green Party member who is state secretary in the ministry of economics and labor.
 Mr. Schlauch said that high oil prices are helpful insofar as they give new impetus to such policies. He noted that there would be a major conference on renewable energy in Bonn, starting on Tuesday.
 For all the talk of living with less oil, there is evidence that Europe could use a kick. The European Union set a target of producing 22 percent of its electricity, and 12 percent of all energy, through renewable sources by 2010. Now, though, Brussels admits that it will miss the target unless its member countries increase subsidies and other forms of aid for the industry.
 Without more support, the commission said, renewable energy will account for only 10 percent of total energy production by 2010. It currently accounts for 6 percent, compared to 40 percent for oil, 23 percent for natural gas, 16 percent for nuclear power, and 15 percent for solid fuels.
 While wind energy is growing in Germany and Denmark, it has been hobbled in France because the electric utility does not want other energy companies using its power grid. In Britain, until recently, builders of windmills could not obtain permits from local authorities to erect turbines.
 A long-term increase in oil prices could sweep aside many such objections, said advocates of renewable energy.
 ''It affects these debates drastically,'' said Stephan Singer, director of climate and energy policy at the World Wide Fund for Nature in Brussels. ''The driver for a renewable energy policy so far has been the climate. Now, the debates are going to be about energy security and reducing dependency.''
 Europe, despite its progress in developing alternative energy, remains heavily dependent on imported oil. Moreover, close-at-hand fields in the North Sea and Norway are peaking in production, which means Europeans face a future of even greater reliance on oil from the OPEC countries.
 Political leaders here have been no less vocal than their American counterparts in calling on the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries to raise its output when it meets in Beirut this week. That could bring down prices, which peaked at $41.85 a barrel on May 17 and are now just below $40. With the weekend attack in Khobar, Saudi Arabia, prices are expected to rise when regular trading resumes Tuesday after Memorial Day.
 At the same time, officials have been trying to dampen fears that oil prices will derail Europe's fragile economic recovery. For the moment, oil has made itself felt mostly in the form of higher prices. Consumer prices rose 2.5 percent in May, the highest level in more than two years.
 That is higher than the 2 percent inflation target favored by the European Central Bank, which sets monetary policy for the 12 countries that use the euro. But few economists expect the bank to react sharply by, say, raising interest rates when it meets in Frankfurt on Thursday.
 ''There is a point in leaders saying, 'There's no need to overreact,''' said Thomas Mayer, the chief European economist at Deutsche Bank. ''The effect of this is much less than in the 1970's.''
 Mr. Mayer noted that in addition to the high fuel taxes, which proportionally make crude prices less palpable within the total cost of gas, Europe has been insulated by a strong euro, which has helped it in the dollar-denominated oil market.
 The question is how much a sustained price rise would hamper Europe's already anemic economic growth. 
 The rule of thumb, Mr. Mayer said, is that an increase from $30 a barrel to $40 a barrel would trim 0.4 percentage point from annual growth. That is a significant bite, given that the European Commission has forecast growth of 1.7 percent in 2004.
 European companies, like the German chemical giant BASF, which are heavy consumers of petroleum, have warned that their profits will be dented. Airlines like British Airways and Lufthansa have added a surcharge on some flights to offset the higher cost of fuel.
 There is little relief in sight for European motorists. 
 Taxi drivers in London have called on the city to raise cab fares to account for the higher cost of diesel. Fares were lifted by 3.4 percent last April, however, and officials said they were unlikely to raise them again so soon.
 Auto clubs in Germany are pushing for a cut in fuel taxes, which are among the highest in Europe.
 ''The tax is not changing behavior by forcing people to buy smaller cars. It's just forcing people off the road,'' said Johannes Hubner, the director of communications for the Auto Club of Germany.
 European leaders resisted demands to lower taxes amid the protests of 2000, and they are likely to do the so again. Raising gas taxes is equally unlikely, given the uproar it caused four years ago.
 But officials realize they cannot stand still. ''Our sources of oil are in the Middle East, and the Middle East is very unstable,'' Mr. Schlauch of the Green Party said. ''We have to do things differently.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A taxi leaves a gasoline station in London. Europeans seem to be less worried about gas prices than Americans. (Photo by Bloomberg News)(pg. C1)
 Wind turbines produced electricity in Waldow, Germany, last year. (Photo by Getty Images)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); GASOLINE (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (90%); WIND ENERGY (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (87%); WIND POWER PLANTS (86%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (76%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (76%); IMPORT TRADE (72%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (69%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (66%); SOLAR ENERGY (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (52%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (90%) EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (92%); DENMARK (70%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2004



6 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1504 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-9

New Mission Orders in Iraq To Aid New Government
Senior American commanders in Baghdad say they are writing new orders to shift the focus of the military's mission from offensive combat operations to protecting a new Iraqi government and parts of the economy while building up Iraq's own security forces. The shift may be viewed by some Iraqis as a further step back from disarming Iraq's insurgents. A1

Iraqi Interim Government
Adnan Pachachi, the former Iraqi foreign minister, emerged as the leading candidate to become the new Iraqi president, as American officials signaled that they would announce a completed interim government today. A senior Bush administration official said Mr. Pachachi had become a likely choice for Iraqi president but cautioned that it was still possible that the appointment could fall through. A8

At least five American soldiers died in Iraq over a 24-hour period that began Sunday, two of them fighting insurgents in the holy city of Kufa during the unraveling of a cease-fire agreement with a rebel Shiite cleric, military officials said. A car bomb exploded near the fortified American headquarters in Baghdad, killing at least four Iraqi civilians, military officials and witnesses said. A9

Questions Follow in Khobar
The way the hostage drama in Khobar ended Sunday, with three militants escaping and 22 people dead, left more questions than answers in the heart of Saudi Arabia's oil industry. Many Saudis and foreign workers wondered aloud whether the gunmen and the police had struck a deal, speculating about how an escape from a walled compound surrounded by the police was possible. A6

14 Killed in Attack in Pakistan
At least 14 people were killed and 38 wounded when a powerful bomb exploded in a Shiite mosque in Karachi, police officials said. The attack set off a wave of violent protest, and angry demonstrators clashed with riot police officers across the city. At least two people were killed in the rioting, local news media reported. A7

Liberian Ex-Ruler Can Be Tried
Charles G. Taylor, the former Liberian president accused of crimes against humanity in connection with a rebel insurrection in neighboring Sierra Leone, can be prosecuted by an international war crimes tribunal, a United Nations-backed court in Sierra Leone ruled. A6

Bombing Trials Postponed
Confusion over a recent change in Turkey's Constitution forced the government to postpone the high profile trials of 69 men charged in connection with four suicide bombings last year in Istanbul that have been linked to Al Qaeda. A7

Madrid Bombing Warrant
A high court judge has issued an international arrest warrant for Daoud Ouhnane, an Algerian whose fingerprints were found on a plastic bag containing traces of explosives and detonators of the type used in the March 11 train bombings in Madrid. A4

NATIONAL A10-16

Medicare Drug Discounts Begin but Sign-Ups Lag
Elderly people can start using Medicare drug discount cards today in an experiment that has gotten off to a slow start, but promises to have big implications for politics and health policy. The program is the first major test of the new Medicare law before the November elections. A1

Honoring Fallen Soldiers
As men and women of Powell, Wyo., set wreaths at the base of the Crown Hill Cemetery war monument, the parents of Second Lt. Therrel Shane Childers did not move. Although their son was among the first to die in combat in the war in Iraq, his death and those of his comrades are so recent that formal observances, fraternal orders and support groups have had no time to coalesce. A10

President Bush laid a wreath at Tomb of the Unknowns and then delivered a Memorial Day address in which he acknowledged the ''great costs'' of the war in Iraq and tied it to the broader effort to combat terrorism. A12

Kerry on Republican Turf
Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts acknowledged that a foray into Virginia, a traditionally Republican state, was unusual for him as the presumed Democratic presidential nominee, but said he would be visiting ''lots of states'' as his campaign tries to expand the electoral battleground. A15

Mr. Kerry's campaign has been a font of slogans and catch phrases, but few have caught on. Lately he has been wrapping up his speeches with lines borrowed from Langston Hughes: ''Let America be America again.'' A15

Studying Cancer Survivors
There are nearly 10 million cancer survivors in this country, up from 3 million in 1971 and 6 million in 1986. As the number increases federal officials for the first time are hoping to figure out exactly who these cancer survivors are, how they should be treated, what their psychological states are, and what are their medical and social needs. A1

Judge's Trials in Las Vegas
Gerald W. Hardcastle is a community pillar in Las Vegas, a family court judge who is the final arbiter for children who are neglected or abused. But he says the city has placed untenable pressures on the lives of families, including his own. A1

Nuclear Waste Poses Dilemma
A dispute over whether millions of gallons of radioactive waste can be safely left in aging steel tanks has become an issue in the military authorization bill for the fiscal year that begins on Oct. 1. A13

EDUCATION

Yale Alumni Raise $110 Million
Yale University will celebrate the largest class gift in its history this week when it credits the Class of '54 with a contribution of more than $110 million. A10

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Church Mourns 3 Deaths In Van Accident in Canada
Three members of the Gospel Assembly Church in the Bronx were killed when their van crashed, overturned, and caught fire as it approached a bridge near Niagara Falls on the Canadian side of the border, the authorities said. B1

Religion and Tap Water
Some rabbis now say that New York City tap water, for a century a gold standard for cleanliness, is not kosher. These rabbis have recently discovered that there are tiny bugs, called copepods, in the unfiltered water that streams into the city from upstate. These bugs are harmless. But they are crustaceans. And crustaceans are not allowed. B1

Wyoming's Antiterror Money
Wyoming, whose population is about half a million, the smallest in the country, will receive more than $38 a person in antiterrorist financing, more than any other state and seven times the per-person amount that will flow to New York. B1

SCIENCE TIMES F1-10

Locals Think Global in Belize
In Belize there is increased effort to protect coastal spawning sites for the cubera snapper. But what makes this protection effort unique is it did not start in New York or Geneva, but in small villages like Placencia and Monkey River Village by local fishermen who were seeing dwindling catches of some fish and realized that tourism, particularly scuba diving and fly-fishing, could be a new source of income. F1

Health & Fitness F6

FASHION B7

ARTS E1-12

New Entries for Music Award
The governing board of the Pulitzer Prizes in journalism and the arts will announce a broadening of the category for the award in music that would open the door to musical theater scores, film scores and works containing large elements of improvisation. E1

Stanley Kubrick Retrospective
Is it any surprise that Stanley Kubrick, the famously obsessive filmmaker who created ''Dr. Strangelove'' and ''2001: A Space Odyssey,'' was also a world-class pack rat? Three years after he died in 1999, the Deutsches Filmmuseum in Frankfurt got permission from Kubrick's widow, Christiane, to sort through his effects with a view to putting on the first major retrospective of his work. E1

BUSINESS DAY C1-10

Gas Prices a Growing Worry
As fuel prices shot up to record highs over the last six months, many Americans seemed to be coping with little difficulty, helped by a resurgent economy and low interest rates. But the big numbers at the gasoline pump may finally be taking a toll on consumers and businesses. A1

While the arrival of $2-a-gallon gasoline has rattled many Americans, Europeans, for a variety of reasons, have reacted with relative equanimity to the jump in oil prices. C1

Qwest and MCI Reach Deal
Qwest Communications and MCI Inc. have reached an agreement over network leasing rates, officials and industry executives said. C1

Fiat Said to Choose Successor
Fiat, the ailing giant of the Italian auto industry, is likely to name Sergio Marchionne as chief executive after a series of dramatic weekend maneuvers provoked by the death of its chairman, Umberto Agnelli, according to an executive close to the company. C1

Business Digest C1

SPORTSTUESDAY D1-8

Lakers Advance to N.B.A. Finals
The Los Angeles Lakers defeated the Minnesota Timberwolves, 96-90, in game 6 of the Western Conference finals to advance to their fourth National Basketball Association final in five years. D1

OBITUARIES A17

EDITORIAL A18-19

Editorials: Lands in need of care; cleansing the Olympic team; a small outbreak of democracy.

Columns: Paul Krugman, David Brooks.

Crossword E2
TV Listings E11
Public Lives B2
Weather C7


GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); TERRORISM (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RIOTS (86%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); MEDICARE (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); POLICE FORCES (75%); WAR CRIMES (73%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (72%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (71%); TESTIMONY (71%); AL-QAEDA (71%); EVIDENCE (71%); EYEWITNESSES (71%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (71%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (71%); ARRESTS (71%); DISARMAMENT (71%); ARREST WARRANTS (69%); HOSTAGE TAKING (67%); FINGERPRINTING (66%); LITIGATION (65%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (64%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (60%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (60%); JUDGES (60%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%); MADRID, SPAIN (92%); KARACHI,PAKISTAN (79%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); LIBERIA (92%); SIERRA LEONE (92%); TURKEY (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); SPAIN (92%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2004



7 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 628 words

HEADLINE: Golf Store Is Out of Bounds on Transit Center's Layout

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
Robert Moses, the master builder who uprooted many tenants in his day, said you couldn't make an omelet without breaking some eggs.
 He failed to mention wedges, woods, putters, irons and drivers.
 The latest project unveiled for Lower Manhattan, the Fulton Street Transit Center, will connect four subway stations under a crystalline glass dome. It will also almost surely doom the World of Golf in its building at 189 Broadway. 
 Overflowing with golf balls, apparel and hundreds of gleaming clubs, the second-floor store opened in 1998 but had to close for six months after being badly damaged in the Sept. 11, 2001, attack.
 ''I'm extremely concerned that this will represent the second death of this business,'' said David Braham, 48, an owner of the World of Golf, whose other store, at 147 East 47th Street, was opened by his parents, Stanley and Anne, in 1968. 
 Almost every big project pushes out tenants, some quite distinctive. The Fulton Street center will affect about 140 offices and stores, mostly on Broadway between John and Fulton Streets, where the new transit hall is to rise by 2007. Many will move; others, undoubtedly, will close. 
 The Metropolitan Transportation Authority also has its eye on 189 Broadway, at Dey Street, a two-story structure that World of Golf shares with a Chinese restaurant, a photo finisher, a picture framer, a clothing store, a lingerie store, a cookie shop and a smoke shop. 
 On this corner, the M.T.A. plans an airy entry pavilion, with elevators, leading to the 4 and 5 subway platform, to the main transit hall and to a new underground concourse running to the World Trade Center site, the PATH terminal and the E, R and W lines.
 ''It seems like a million people like it,'' Mr. Braham said, ''and 140 people don't.''
 Tenants will have a chance to comment at an environmental hearing next Tuesday and on the property takings at a hearing this fall, said Roco Krsulic, the director of real estate for the transportation authority. Tenants, he said, will be given 90-day notices and will receive relocation assistance and compensation for their fixtures.
 ''The M.T.A. is extremely sensitive that we accommodate both tenants and owners,'' Mr. Krsulic said.
 What worries Mr. Braham is finding comparable, affordable real estate. The store is halfway through a 10-year lease, paying about $30 a square foot annually for 4,800 square feet of space in the financial district, where many of his customers are. 
 ''It's a great place to go at lunchtime when your head is pounding from work,'' said David C. Rubin, founder of the Rubin Group, an insurance brokerage firm on John Street. He recalled admiringly that Mr. Braham tracked down a hard-to-find Sonartec 3-wood. 
 Just as important, Mr. Rubin said, ''They're not going to let you walk out with a $119 wedge that may not be suited or appropriate to your game.''
 The store has a tiny putting green and rooms where customers can be fitted for clubs or work with an instructor on their swing. The six employees are golfers themselves. 
 ''People do enjoy coming here,'' Mr. Braham said. ''It helps people feel better to see someone else doing the same silly thing.''
 Though not as big as Century 21 or J&R Music, the World of Golf looms large by some measures. For instance, it is among the top 10 retailers of Callaway clubs, said Larry Dorman, a senior vice president of the Callaway Golf Company in Carlsbad, Calif.
 Mr. Braham said he hopes to find a new store downtown. But for the moment, he said, he is distressed and desperate for information.
 ''Everything I know about condemnation law, I've learned in the last 48 hours,'' Mr. Braham said on Friday.
 He added: ''We totally understand that what's best for New York has to be done. But we're sad it's being done on our backs.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: David Braham, an owner at World of Golf, faces the prospect of closing the store's doors again. (Photo by G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times)
 Bags and clubs littered the floor at 189 Broadway in Lower Manhattan after the Sept. 11 attack. (Photo by Jim Miller) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (91%); SPORTING GOODS STORES (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (76%); RELOCATIONS (76%); PICTURE FRAME SHOPS (75%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (75%); TRENDS (72%); TOBACCO STORES (70%); LINGERIE & HOSIERY STORES (70%); RETAIL BAKERIES (70%); RESTAURANTS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (50%) Transit Systems; Relocation of Business; Subways; Economic Conditions and Trends; Shutdowns (Institutional)

ORGANIZATION: Metropolitan Transportation Authority

PERSON: David W Dunlap

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2004



8 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1080 words

HEADLINE: The Price of Rice Soars, and Haiti's Hunger Deepens

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER; Michael Wines contributed reporting from Johannesburg for this article.

DATELINE: PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti, May 31 

 BODY:
One lesson of life in Haiti is never to say things cannot get any worse. They can, and they have.
 People say they have had less money, less food and less hope since the February revolt that toppled President Jean-Bertrand Aristide.
 For most Haitians, this has nothing to do with last week's deadly floods, which left 1,000 dead and 1,600 missing in Haiti, according to the official government estimate on Monday. 
 It has to do with the price of rice.
 The cost of living has soared in the past four months. And as they say in Haiti, ''Rice is life.'' 
 On the Rue de Miracles, one of the capital's biggest sidewalk markets, where thousands buy and sell the necessities of life, people talk of little else. Every conversation that starts with politics ends with the price of rice.
 Many Haitians eat one meal a day. The main course is rice, and the price of a 110-pound sack doubled, to $45 from $22.50, between late January and early May. That price has dropped to about $37 in the past few weeks but is still too high, said Clermathe Baron, 29, who sells the big white sacks across the street from the Haitian customs office near the port. The price was driven up by global, national, political and economic forces.
 ''Life for the people of Haiti was better under Aristide because rice was less expensive,'' said Ms. Baron, not a big fan of the former president, as an American military helicopter hummed overhead.
 ''Even though it's more expensive now, I make the same as I did before,'' she said. ''These high prices are not to my advantage. They're not to anyone's advantage, except maybe a few big importers and a few people in the Customs House. They always seem to have money.''
 People who buy rice by the pound say the price also doubled, and it has stayed that high.
 ''We have less and less to eat,'' said Nadia Casmir, 21, who sells crackers, cookies and powdered milk from a sidewalk stall, and lives with her mother, aunt, and the aunt's three children. ''Things were better before. I'm not making a living. I've had to raise my prices, but people have less money, so they can't buy what we are selling.''
 Mr. Aristide, unsurprisingly, agrees that things have gotten worse since he was overthrown Feb. 29.
 ''The level of suffering has dramatically increased in Haiti,'' he said to reporters before leaving Jamaica and arriving Monday in South Africa, which offered him refuge. Mr. Aristide, who says he is still Haiti's elected leader, received a head of state's welcome in Johannesburg from President Thabo Mbeki.
 But Haitian businessmen say Mr. Aristide's government kept the price of rice down through corruption.
 One leading importer said an Aristide crony received a near exclusive concession on rice imports and evaded customs duties. That evasion allowed the rice concessionaire to cut about $3 a bag off the market price, pass some of the savings on to the market and pocket the rest.
 ''It was kind of a monopoly'' under Mr. Aristide, said Danielle St.-Lot, the new minister of commerce.
 Haiti used to grow its own rice. But its agriculture has collapsed in the past two decades, crushed by poverty, environmental destruction and foreign imports. While rice production crashed, demand soared: Haiti's population has grown to eight million from five million in 20 years. ''The deterioration of the economy, years of bad governance without any policy for agriculture, and the day-to-day problems of life we now see reflected in the price of rice,'' Ms. St.-Lot said.
 Eighty percent of the rice imported by Haiti comes from the United States, chiefly Arkansas, Louisiana and California -- more than 300,000 tons in 2003. American rice is the most expensive in the world, Ms. St.-Lot said. ''The problem is serious,'' she said. ''The price on the international market is growing every day.''
 American and global stocks of rice are down, driving prices up, in some part because of American military and foreign policies.
 ''The American government has been buying a lot of rice for Pakistan, Afghanistan and Iraq,'' said Jean-Michel Cherubin, a leading Haitian importer of rice, sugar and beans.
 International aid agencies, like the United Nations World Food Program and Catholic Relief Services, which receive United States government support, do what they can to ease Haiti's hunger. The United Nations sought $35 million in emergency funds for Haiti from foreign governments in March; it remains $26 million shy of the goal.
 Things were bad before the flood, and now at least 75,000 survivors of the deluge face a food emergency that will last for many months.
 Haiti -- its ports in particular -- is a dangerous place to do business. That remains true despite the soon-to-depart American-led military force sent to provide security and stability after Mr. Aristide fell, and despite the efforts of the interim government, which has good intentions but almost no money. Theft and crime raise the market price of rice by cutting the supply lines.
 ''People have been stealing rice and selling it in the market here in La Saline,'' said Capt. Sean Connally of the Marines, part of a force sent to secure the harbor of Port-au-Prince, which abuts La Saline, one of Haiti's roughest neighborhoods. Four cargo containers were looted Monday morning, Haitian officials said.
 That has gone on since the day Mr. Aristide fell. ''There was lots of looting of commercial warehouses where rice was stocked,'' said Jean-Claude Paulvin, president of the Haitian Economists association. ''Boats couldn't come into the port to deliver the rice.''
 The damage done to businesses, warehouses and commercial property during the anti-Aristide rebellion ran to tens of millions of dollars.
 Haiti's police force, whose cars and weapons were stolen during the chaos after Mr. Aristide's departure, now has roughly 2,500 officers. The government lacks money to rebuild the force or secure the ports.
 Starting June 1, security will be handed over from the American-led force to a United Nations coalition whose soldiers have barely started arriving. A formal transfer of command is set for June 20; the last American soldier is to leave June 30.
 It all weighs heavily on Ms. Baron, the rice seller, and her customers.
 ''Because of the political situation, I pay more for everything, for all the necessities of life, including rice,'' she said. ''Life's not better for me. It's worse now. It's not good for us poor people. The little money we have is not enough to fight the forces of commerce.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Sacks of rice for sale in a market in Port-au-Prince, the Haitian capital. The price of rice, a major staple in Haiti, has risen sharply in recent months. (Photo by Jake Price/SIPA Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURAL PRICES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICS (77%); COST OF LIVING (75%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); PRICE CHANGES (72%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (65%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: THABO MBEKI (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (65%) HAITI (98%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2004



9 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS TRAVEL; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1291 words

HEADLINE: Hotels Get Pushy About Their Loyalty Programs

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER ELLIOTT

 BODY:
Hotels are turning aggressive in recruiting business travelers to their loyalty programs.
 In the past, properties pretty much limited their sales pitch to pamphlets at the check-in counter, and tended to emphasize the perks of membership, like upgrades and gift baskets. But in recent months, travelers say, they have become more vocal about the benefits of joining -- and have begun punishing guests who refuse by putting them in less desirable rooms or saddling them with surcharges.
 ''If you're not part of a hotel's frequent-guest program, you'll get a brochure pushed in your face when you check in,'' said Frank Kwan, a communications director for the Los Angeles County Office of Education in Downey, Calif. ''They strongly encourage you to join the program. And if you don't, you pay for it.'' 
 For example, Mr. Kwan says he felt compelled to join Wyndham's ByRequest loyalty program because otherwise he would have had to pay for high-speed Internet access and phone calls. Similarly, Hilton HHonors members are allowed a late checkout, but noncardholders have to pay for an additional day. 
 At Starwood Hotels and Resorts Worldwide like W, Sheraton and St. Regis, elite-level frequent stayers can sometimes make free local calls when other guests have to pay, and they can secure reservations at lower rates in peak times, when ordinary travelers are paying top dollar.
 ''Without a card, you're shunted off to the side,'' Mr. Kwan said -- most chain hotels offer special check-in lines for program members.
 Why are hotels putting the squeeze on business travelers? It is not just to load them up with incentives to come back. A new dynamic is at work: a rush to accumulate as much information as possible about as many guests as possible, as quickly as possible. The big chains, realizing that such information is crucial in a booming economy to keeping the customers they have and enticing new ones, are discovering that their databases are woefully inadequate.
 ''They're desperate for data,'' said Robert Mandelbaum, a hotel analyst with PKF Consulting in Atlanta. ''Hotels need information about their guests and especially about business travelers and getting them to sign up for their loyalty programs is the easiest way to get that information.''
 Registering for Wyndham's frequent-stayer program, for instance, means telling the hotel chain your preferred bed type, whether you like to relax with a Coke or a Chardonnay after you check in and which airline loyalty program you belong to. Guests also submit their addresses, phone numbers and e-mail addresses -- and the online sign-up form automatically registers them to receive a monthly e-mail newsletter called ''Wyndham News ByRequest,'' which features ''member-only offers, program updates and information.'' To opt out of the electronic dispatch, users must uncheck a box.
 Hotel representatives say they use the data to better serve guests. But they also use it to serve themselves, specifically to hone sales and advertising efforts to capture more market share, according to experts.
 Until now, they have done a feeble job of tracking their guests' habits and tastes, said Robert Burke, whose company, Egroup Communications of Miami, manages e-mail databases for the lodging industry. He calculates that the American hotel industry has collected reliable data from no more than 10 percent of its business travelers.
 ''Hotels see the data as a key to their growth,'' he said. ''But if you take a look at these databases, you see that they're incomplete or disorganized. A lot of the databases are just in shambles, and you really begin to understand that hotels know next to nothing about their guests. That's why they're getting so aggressive.'' 
 Many are trying to emulate the one chain that has set itself apart in ''turning data to dollars,'' to use an industry term. Hilton's reservations system, OnQ, contains 7.5 million active profiles of guests, with information on everything from the frequency of their stays at Hilton Hotels properties and the sort of rooms they like to their newspaper preferences.
 OnQ can prompt a reservations agent to greet guests in a certain way at check-in. If they are members of its HHonors loyalty program, for example, it can welcome them back; if they are not, it can encourage them to sign up. ''Our relationship with our guest is based on data,'' said Jim VonDerheide, Hilton's vice president for customer relationship management strategies. 
 Bruce Mainzer, a hotel consultant and former vice president for marketing at Hyatt, says properties harvest information like frequent-flier membership data from airline partners, combine it with their guest information and use it to create promotional campaigns. ''If I know you're a frequent traveler but you only stay in my hotel two nights a year, then -- boom -- I'm going to hit you hard with marketing,'' he said.
 For Hilton, the efforts have paid off. The rate of staying at Hilton hotels instead of at rivals has soared to 61 percent from 41 percent two years ago, Mr. VonDerheide says, giving a huge lift to the company.
 Many travelers are happy to trade personal information for preferential treatment. One HHonors member, Sonia Vining, a music teacher from Plymouth, Mich., says skipping the long check-in lines is reward enough. ''It really takes very little effort to join the program,'' she said, ''and you're getting something in return for a few minutes of your time.''
 But not all road warriors like the trade-off. ''I'm not comfortable with the amount of information the hotels collect about me through their loyalty programs,'' said Addison Schonland, the chief executive of the Innovation Analysis Group, a San Diego market research company. ''I mean, I don't really know what the hotel knows about me. I don't even know who owns the information -- is it the hotel chain or the property owner?'' 
 What about guests who refuse to get with the program? Hotels are also collecting statistics about them. Two years ago, for example, the InterContinental Hotels Group began culling reservations data from its computer systems on frequent visitors who declined to sign up for its Priority Club. The information already makes up about two-thirds of its customer database.
 ''The future belongs to those hotels that recognize data is one their most important assets,'' said Steve Sickel, InterContinental's senior vice president for loyalty marketing.
 Although InterContinental wants to sign up more Priority Club members, who spend 30 percent to 35 percent more within the chain after they join than before, Mr. Sickel says it will get the information one way or another. The chain uses algorithms based on existing information in its database like names, length of stay and amount of money spent. ''We can predict the lifetime value of a customer based on the transactional data in just one visit,'' he said. ''And it's 98 percent accurate.''
 But until the rest of the industry catches up to these computer models, the best predictor of guest behavior, and a hotel's behavior, for that matter, remains a membership in its loyalty program, as Lyn Greenhill recently discovered.
 Mr. Greenhill had booked a room at the Courtyard Portland Southeast in Portland, Ore., through an online-booking service that apparently did not note his membership in Marriott's frequent-stayer program. ''The room overlooked a freeway, and was right next to an elevator,'' he recalled. ''It was absolutely the worst room in the place.'' Mr. Greenhill, a Roseville, Calif., engineering consultant, asked to be moved, but was told there were no more rooms available at the rate that he had paid. 
 ''Then I pulled out my Marriott Rewards card,'' he said. ''Needless to say, I got a better room.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photo: ''If you're not part of a hotel's frequent-guest program, you'll get a brochure pushed in your face when you check in,'' Frank Kwan said. (Photo by Stephanie Diani for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); LOYALTY MARKETING (90%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (89%); HOTEL CHAINS (89%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (78%); RESORTS (74%); INTERNET & WWW (72%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (54%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: STARWOOD HOTELS & RESORTS WORLDWIDE INC (68%)

TICKER: HOT (NYSE) (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (68%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2004



10 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 504 words

HEADLINE: Indonesian Unapologetic On Expulsion

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ

DATELINE: JAKARTA, Indonesia, May 31 

 BODY:
President Megawati Sukarnoputri, in a rare appearance at a news conference, made no apologies on Monday for her government's decision to expel a leading American expert on Indonesia's terrorist groups.
 Mrs. Megawati, persuaded to face reporters because of her low standing in opinion polls as the election for president in July approaches, also fielded questions about her economic policies and her opponents in the race. 
 The terrorism expert, Sidney Jones, heads the Jakarta office of the International Crisis Group, which is based in Brussels. She wrote a series of reports on the inner workings of the militant Islamic group Jemaah Islamiyah that received wide attention.
 Law enforcement and intelligence officials in Washington had praised the detailed reports, which describe the background and workings of Jemaah Islamiyah, which has links to Al Qaeda. The reports, filled with the names of the group's members, their rank and duties, were based on court documents from the Suharto era as well as on interviews with disaffected members.
 But Mrs. Megawati suggested that Indonesia's willingness to fight against terrorists, and the matter of Ms. Jones, were separate. ''We are fighting terrorism,'' she said, insisting that technically she had not expelled Ms. Jones. 
 The government informed Ms. Jones on Friday that her residence visa would not be renewed, Ms. Jones said Monday. Earlier, the government refused to renew her work permit.
 Ms. Jones, who speaks Indonesian and studied here in the early 1980's, said Monday, ''I have to be out by June 10, and I can't come back in a working capacity.''
 The director of the State Intelligence Agency, Gen. Hendropriyono, a political ally of Mrs. Megawati, publicly complained last week about Ms. Jones's reports. Though he has been leading the charge against Ms. Jones, other cabinet members, including Foreign Minister Hassan Wirajuda, have also criticized her work.
 In an interview published Monday in Tempo, the nation's leading news magazine, General Hendropriyono is quoted as saying of Ms. Jones: ''She's been working here drawing attention to human rights. Then she writes reports and sends them abroad, even though they are not all true.'' He added, ''There must be steps taken against people who are not liked by the people of Indonesia.''
 General Hendropriyono was one of the Bush administration's favorite Indonesian officials after 9/11, in large part because he was one of the few senior officials who appeared to take terrorism seriously. His star in Washington was somewhat eclipsed after the Bali bombing in 2002, when the Indonesian police did much of the investigative work. Still, he visited Washington earlier this year and had a meeting at the C.I.A.
 During the three-decade authoritarian Suharto government, independent work like that of the International Crisis Group was banned. The Jakarta Post, the English language daily newspaper, titled an editorial condemning the moves against Ms. Jones ''Back to the Suharto Years.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (92%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (92%); INTERVIEWS (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); AL-QAEDA (77%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); BOMBINGS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); LICENSES & PERMITS (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%); RELIGION (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: JEMAAH ISLAMIYA (83%); AL-QAEDA (56%); INTERNATIONAL CRISIS GROUP (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (88%) INDONESIA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2004



11 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; PUBLIC LIVES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 920 words

PERSON: Sarah Rose Kasowitz 

HEADLINE: From Acting to Unsung Role in Family's Tradition

BYLINE: By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS

 BODY:
WHEN Sarah Rose Kasowitz woke up on the first day of her life as a newly minted teacher, she poured her tea into a mug handed down from her grandmother. Instead of having a funny cartoon cat or a sports logo inscribed on it, the mug said simply, ''Teacher.''
 In the Kasowitz family being a teacher is, as Ms. Kasowitz puts it, ''in the blood,'' a tradition among her female forebears as strong as becoming a firefighter or a police officer is for the male lineage of many families. When Ms. Kasowitz marched in her graduation procession from Teachers College of Columbia University on May 18, she was following in the footsteps of her mother, her aunt, her grandmother and a host of cousins. 
 Strangely, though, becoming a teacher hardly seems to have the visceral pull, the intergenerational cachet, of becoming a police officer. It's possible, as Edward Conlon has just done, to write a book called ''Blue Blood'' and see it reach the best-seller charts. But if there's an equivalent covenant among teachers -- chalk dust instead of blue blood running through their veins? -- it just doesn't seem to carry the same punch.
 For one thing, ''There's no chalk anymore, it's markers and dry-erase board now,'' Ms. Kasowitz said last week.
 Well, that's one reason. Or it could be that the war stories handed down by teachers at the kitchen table just aren't as compelling. A child writing an incredible poem, which is the kind of story told at the Kasowitz table, doesn't set the pulse racing like a dash into a burning building.
 ''Cops and firefighters are heroes,'' Ms. Kasowitz said. ''Teachers are not always viewed as heroes, though they should be.'' The women in Ms. Kasowitz's family would argue that they have been heroic in their own small ways, just by teaching children to read, drying tears and forming bonds that sometimes lead students to call them ''Mommy,'' if only by accident.
 But somehow there is something about teaching that generations of women, and sometimes men, feel brings out the best in them. After being seduced by the dazzle of acting, and spending years performing Off Broadway and in regional theater, Ms. Kasowitz, who is 32, found herself rethinking her initial resistance to the profession of her mother and grandmother.
 She grew up in Greenwich Village, went to New York City public schools and graduated from Smith College in 1994, with a degree in theater and Italian language and literature. She began performing at the age of 9, under the name Sarah Rose, in a CBS-TV Thanksgiving special, went on to play the younger daughter in ''Brighton Beach Memoirs'' on Broadway at 11, and later was a mute maid to transvestites in the movie ''Last Exit to Brooklyn,'' and played a recurring role on the soap opera ''One Life to Live.''
 But as the economy faltered after 9/11, so did her theatrical bookings. She had been acting since she was a child, but, she said, ''When you get to a certain age, you just don't want to live hand to mouth anymore.''
 She hated temp work, and her mother said, ''You really should get your substitute license.'' With her mother's help, she did, and began working in the classroom before enrolling at Teachers College.
 People who are not from New York tend to react to her decision with alarm, saying things like, ''Oh my God, good for you, but isn't it total anarchy?''
 Even in the city, she said, ''People who don't have children in public school have this idea that none of them work.''
 But many of her friends who are burned out in high-powered jobs seem slightly envious. ''What's it like?'' they ask. ''Do you enjoy it? How can I get my substitute license?''
 Ms. Kasowitz has never looked back. ''There's a lot going on in the world that I have no control over. But I can go into the classroom, and I feel like I have a sense of control. I feel like I can live generally guilt-free. You make a difference in your own backyard in small ways.''
 Ms. Kasowitz's mother, Elizabeth, who studied art and married a lawyer who prosecutes child abuse for the city, stayed home after Sarah was born. But when Sarah entered kindergarten at Public School 41 in Greenwich Village, it was love at first sight. ''I walked over to the school with Sarah, and I became a teacher,'' Elizabeth Kasowitz recalled. ''I met the principal and the assistant principal, and they literally talked me into staying and working there.''
 Sarah Kasowitz has embraced her new identity so enthusiastically that she has moved from her Manhattan apartment to the two-family house in Kensington, Brooklyn, where her mother and aunt grew up, and where her aunt Maggie Marra, the other teacher in the family, lives still. 
 THE week of Ms. Kasowitz's graduation, her aunt dug an old box out of the top shelf of a closet. It contained the souvenirs of a life in teaching saved by her mother, Laura Trani Marra, the Bronx-born daughter of an Italian-immigrant shoemaker, who died in 1998 at 93. The box had been stored next to Laura Marra's wedding dress. There was her teaching certificate from the Maxwell Training School for Teachers, dated Aug. 2, 1926. There was her Board of Education license, issued in 1931 at 500 Park Avenue, and years of letters turning her down for a permanent appointment during the Depression.
 ''The one thing I'm sad about is that she didn't know about this,'' Ms. Kasowitz said of her own decision to teach. ''She didn't have an inkling that I would be moving back to Brooklyn and becoming a teacher. That would have made her happier than if I had become a millionaire.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: SARAH ROSE KASOWITZ (Photo by Diane Bondareff for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); THEATER (86%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); FAMILY (78%); TEACHER EDUCATION (78%); THEATER & DRAMA (77%); LITERATURE (72%); WRITERS (72%); THANKSGIVING (71%); BESTSELLERS (67%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (60%) Education and Schools; Teachers and School Employees

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%)

Anemona Hartocollis; Sarah Rose Kasowitz

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

CATEGORY: Education and Schools

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2004



12 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1658 words

HEADLINE: Many Feeling Pinch After Newest Surge In U.S. Fuel Prices

BYLINE: By NEELA BANERJEE

DATELINE: DENVER, May 29 

 BODY:
Once a week for 15 years, Vera and Dale Salling have driven a 30-mile circuit from their home in the country through a northern Denver suburb, delivering meals to housebound older people. The Sallings themselves are getting on in years -- Vera is 74 and Dale 79 -- and they do it out of a quiet sense of duty to people who may have no one else who visits regularly. 
 But Mrs. Salling has begun to question whether they can continue volunteering for the Senior Hub's Meals on Wheels program. 
 ''If the price of gasoline keeps going up and groceries go up, you have to give up something to be able to do something else,'' Mrs. Salling said, walking from an apartment complex after delivering a lunch of popcorn shrimp to Cecilia Barnes, 87. Two other drivers have already dropped out because they could no longer afford the rising cost of gasoline, the program's director, Marita Hafner, said. 
 Over the last six months, as fuel prices shot up to record highs, many Americans seemed to be coping with little difficulty, helped by a resurgent economy and low interest rates. But the big numbers at the gasoline pump have begun to take a toll, judging by nearly two dozen interviews with consumers and businesses in Denver over the last week. 
 A fair number of Americans shrugged off other oil-price spikes in recent years, and some can afford to do the same now, buying that big sport utility vehicle or piling the family into the Winnebago for a drive to a national park, even with gasoline costing more than $2 a gallon.
 But in a CBS News nationwide telephone survey in mid-May, most respondents said they had been considerably affected by high gas prices. And people in Denver say they do not think that gasoline or other fuel will get cheaper any time soon, in light of the turmoil in the Middle East. 
 Many Denver families, particularly the working-class and poor ones, face the tough and sometimes humiliating prospect of doing without things they once took for granted, from simple vacations to doctors' appointments.
 Companies like United Airlines and Frontier Airlines, both with hubs here, are trying to cope with sharply higher fuel costs without increases in fares. Trucking companies have added surcharges to their freight rates, though these cover only part of the higher cost of diesel fuel, and many smaller operators are struggling to keep their doors open, according to the Colorado Motor Carriers Association.
 The choices facing people in Denver hint at what could happen to the broader economy if fuel prices stay high or go on rising. Although the effect on most people has been relatively modest, if the price of crude oil stays at $40 a barrel for a year, Mark Zandi of Economy.com said, it would reduce the nation's output by 0.5 percent -- more than $50 billion a year. 
 The increases would have economic effects much like a new tax, a regressive one that falls particularly hard on those with the lowest incomes. Money that might have gone toward other purchases would be drained away paying for fuel, and indirectly, higher fuel costs would gradually add to inflation as they work their way through the economy, business people here said.
 ''Basically, increasing our rates to our customers always helps,'' said Michael Goff, controller for Navajo Shippers, a large interstate trucking company based in the Denver area. ''But ultimately, it hurts you and me as consumers because we're hauling everything that you and I buy.''
 Crude oil prices have bobbed around $40 a barrel since early May. [In Tokyo on Monday, the futures price of crude oil for July delivery rose 2.3 percent.] 
 Regular unleaded gasoline is averaging $2.05 a gallon at American retail outlets, with prices higher in California and New York. Few in the energy industry foresaw how strong demand would be this year, with the Chinese and American economies in particular using more than expected. 
 The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries began the year with efforts to curtail production, and supplies have been further crimped by the turmoil in Iraq and political tensions in Venezuela. [An attack in Saudi Arabia on Saturday and Sunday has analysts concerned that prices may rise further.] 
 Most oil-producing nations are pumping flat out. The Saudis, the only ones with substantial spare capacity, have said they will step up output and called on OPEC to increase production quotas, a suggestion that OPEC's leadership and several members initially resisted. The subject will be at the top of the agenda when the group meets in Beirut on Thursday.
 Some analysts argue that the American economy has yet to really suffer from the rise in prices. Adjusted for inflation, crude oil and gasoline are cheaper now than during the Arab oil embargo of 1973-74. 
 Still, the impact of higher fuel prices may start showing up soon. In the CBS survey, 85 percent of the 1,113 respondents said they had been affected measurably by higher gas prices, and 56 percent said they had been affected a great deal. Three in 10 people said they expected to change their vacation plans. Mrs. Salling said she and her husband would do less traveling than usual this year.
 The survey underscored what is obvious in Denver and elsewhere: people in the lower half of the income scale are bearing the brunt. Alicia Delgado of the Cross Community Coalition Family Resource Center said her clients, mainly lower-income families, are leaving some debts, like phone bills, unpaid so they can continue to buy gasoline. Many are pawning possessions, she said, and young people who are trying to go to school, to job training or to work are having a hard time affording fuel.
 ''I see people very depressed,'' Ms. Delgado said. ''Utilities that were regular things are now something people are desperate over.''
 Many have reduced their travel. Angie Duran, who is disabled and depends on Social Security benefits, has stopped taking her grandchildren to the doctor in her minivan unless there is an emergency. 
 Florencio Granado, who teamed up with his brother 18 months ago to start a house-painting business, said the cost of fuel for their equipment van had gotten so high that they were talking about disbanding if prices do not fall by the end of the summer. 
 ''My wife and I take care of our other bills first, and then we think, 'How are we going to pay for gas?''' said Mr. Granado, 29, outside a modest light-green house he was working on one morning. ''We borrow from our family until we get paid. We're scrounging through the couch for change for gasoline.''
 He added: ''We don't go to the mountains anymore with the kids. When people ask us to visit, I have to say, 'It's too far away; we don't have the money for gas.'
 ''It was really hard the other day. One of my daughters got some awards at school, and the other parents gave their kids bouquets of flowers, and I could only give her one rose because we didn't have the money for more.''
 Mr. Zandi at Economy.com said an increase of a penny a gallon at the pump costs American drivers $1 billion a year. 
 Big companies are starting to feel the pinch, especially the airlines. United, which is trying to emerge from bankruptcy protection, said recently that it would have to spend $750 million more this year on fuel than it first estimated. Each penny increase in the price of jet fuel costs Frontier Airlines $1 million to $1.5 million a year, its spokesman, Joe Hodas, said. But fare competition is so fierce that airlines are reluctant to pass along the fuel costs to fliers.
 ''We had the expectation in the industry that prices couldn't stay high,'' Jeff Potter, Frontier's chief executive, said, ''and as we were saying this, they went even higher. As an industry, this is the single biggest challenge now.''
 Like in many metropolitan regions across the country, Denver's roughly two million people have been sprawling outward in recent years -- building homes and shopping centers in the hills and prairie lands and driving farther to work, school and recreation. Hulking S.U.V.'s fill the highways, and there is relatively little in the way of public transportation. 
 The city's government, with its large fleet of vehicles, is shielded somewhat from the run-up in fuel prices. It locked in an advantageous price with its supplier last year, said Guillermo V. Vidal, manager of the department of public works. The department is trying to reduce its fuel consumption by 25 percent over two years by switching to a diesel-ethanol mixture in its big trucks and buying sedans with hybrid engines. 
 Almost everyone is scrambling to figure out how to weather the price increases. Trucking companies like Navajo, which has about 350 rigs, and Mile Hi Express, with 22 trucks, have added surcharges, which executives think will eventually be passed on to consumers. Yellow Cab is trying to get Colorado to authorize a fuel surcharge of 60 cents a trip to help its drivers, who buy their own gas. But both companies and drivers say surcharges will only cover part of the costs. 
 Duane Millard, 43, a trucker from Oklahoma who has just delivered equipment for the touring Cirque du Soleil, said he now accepts jobs only if they take him to states where diesel fuel is relatively cheap. He avoids California, where it has risen 60 cents a gallon; the company he drives for as an independent contractor is getting surcharge payments from customers of 12 cents a gallon. 
 ''It hurts,'' Mr. Millard said, shaking his head and leaning against his truck, nicknamed Elsie, after parking it at a food-and-fuel stop in northern Denver. ''I used to carry $400 to $500 in my pocket for sundries, living expenses. Now, it's $250 because the rest goes to fuel.''
 His earnings are down, and he has had to put on hold his plans to convert a barn back home into a house. ''I'm already looking for other things to do,'' Mr. Millard said. ''If by the end of the summer we don't see a fall in price, Elsie goes on the auction block.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Vera Salling, 74, and her husband, Dale, 79, delivering a meal to homebound elderly people in a Denver suburb. The Sallings, longtime volunteers in the Meals on Wheels program, may have to end their participation if gas prices keep rising. (Photo by Kevin Moloney for The New York Times)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); GASOLINE PRICES (91%); GASOLINE (90%); MEALS ON WHEELS (90%); DIESEL FUEL PRICES (89%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (75%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (75%); FAMILY (71%); DIESEL FUEL (70%); NATIONAL PARKS (69%); INTEREST RATES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); AIRLINES (65%); TRUCKING (64%); MOTOR VEHICLES (64%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (94%) COLORADO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2004



13 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 475 words

HEADLINE: Sun Alters Its Pricing Strategy For Sales to Developing Nations

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, May 31 

 BODY:
Sun Microsystems plans on Tuesday to announce a new pricing model for selling to governments of developing nations based on population size and degree of industrialization.
 Sun, a computer maker based in Silicon Valley, has struggled in recent years as corporate spending stalled and dot-com and telecommunications companies went into deep recessions.
 Now Sun is searching for ways to defend itself against trends like the shift by corporations to open source software and low-cost server computers. With that in mind, the new pricing strategy is one of several steps the company plans to take. 
 For instance, to guard itself from pricing competition from rivals like Dell, Sun executives said the company will increasingly rely on its ability to sell complete systems -- that is, those that include both software and hardware -- for less money than it would cost consumers to buy a hardware-only computer and install Microsoft software on it.
 Sun's executives said they would also increasingly look for ways to apply pricing strategies that mirror the ones used by satellite television and cellphone companies. These businesses frequently hide the cost of set-top boxes and cellphones in service packages that require customers to commit to long-term contracts. 
 ''We're going to corrupt the industry's pre-established pricing models,'' Sun's president, Jonathan Schwartz, said.
 The company plans to introduce its new government pricing strategy on Tuesday in Shanghai at a quarterly product introduction meeting. Last November, Sun struck a multiyear agreement with a consortium of technology companies backed by the Chinese government to create a standard desktop software system for the country's 1.3 billion citizens.
 The new government pricing strategy will be based on a ''per-citizen'' model for licensing its software to federal, state and local governments of developing nations. Sun already uses a similar system for its corporate pricing -- for example, it is selling its Java Enterprise software, based on Solaris and Linux operating systems, to corporate customers for $100 an employee a year. Industry executives said this compared favorably with Microsoft's pricing for corporate software, which averages about $250 an employee a year.
 Sun will start its government pricing model by selling Java Enterprise, which lets customers provide e-mail, identity authentication and other Internet services. 
 Sun executives said it made sense to put government functions online.
 ''A lot of these network services are natural evolutions of existing phone and mail services,'' Mr. Schwartz said. ''It's not all that far-fetched: our government delivers mail to every U.S. citizen.''
 The software will be sold to governments for 33 cents to $1.95 a citizen annually, depending on each nation's development status as measured by the United Nations.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE MANAGEMENT (95%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); PRODUCT PRICING (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); POPULATION SIZE (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); COMPUTER MAKERS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); ELECTRONIC GOVERNMENT (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (77%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (77%); NETWORK SERVERS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); OPEN SOURCE SOFTWARE (76%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (74%); NEW PRODUCTS (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (72%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ORACLE AMERICA INC (59%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (59%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (59%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (59%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (59%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (59%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%)

PERSON: JONATHAN I SCHWARTZ (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (74%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2004



14 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1121 words

HEADLINE: Looking for Some Help For Love Canal's Other Site

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA

DATELINE: NIAGARA FALLS, N.Y. 

 BODY:
Niagara's rush and roar have long drawn both visionaries and hucksters, but few ever matched the audacity of William T. Love, a fast-talking drifter who vowed in 1893 to build a canal linking this city to a fertile field seven miles away and there erect ''the most perfect city in existence.''
 Just a small section of canal was dug, but today the two places that would have been connected by water are bound instead by a pair of environmental nightmares that arose from the ruins of Mr. Love's grandiose dream. 
 Near the southeastern end of this city lies the infamous Love Canal, the remnant of Mr. Love's doomed plan where tons of toxic chemicals were dumped. Federal environmental officials recently declared a formal end to the Love Canal cleanup, though monitoring continues. 
 But there is no end in sight for the problems that have arisen at what would have been the northern terminus of Mr. Love's canal. He called the area Model City, and now it contains one of the largest hazardous-waste landfill sites in the country, right next to a government storage site containing radioactive residues from the construction of the first atomic bomb. 
 In Model City, as in Love Canal, questions are being asked about fault and fairness. While the federal government's actions to clean up the Love Canal hazards appear to be finally approaching an end, the people who live in the Model City area face a struggle just to get officials to heed their calls for help. 
 ''To the government, there are no health issues, no economic issues, no community issues,'' said Vincent Agnello, who leads a group of local residents fighting the landfill, run by Chemical Waste Management, Inc. and known around town as C.W.M. To the government, ''This is just a great place to dump,'' he said. 
 Substantial changes in attitudes and regulations help explain the disparity between the two communities. The chemical dump at Love Canal was ancient by modern standards. It was no more than the open pit left by Mr. Love when dumping started in 1942, and it had none of the safety features now required by the federal Environmental Protection Agency. The chemical landfill in Model City, by contrast, was acquired by Chemical Waste in 1984 and is far more technologically advanced and more closely regulated.
 State and federal environmental officials insist that the waste sites in Model City pose no threat to nearby residents. ''The C.W.M. operation is run properly,'' said Walter E. Mugdan, regional director of environmental planning and protection for the Environmental Protection Agency. ''It does not represent an inappropriate level of risk.'' 
 That assurance, however, means little to the people living around Model City. Having watched the intensive government effort to clean up Love Canal, residents of Model City expected the same diligence in their area and are increasingly frustrated that it has not materialized. 
 ''The whole history of Love Canal has left a legacy of distrust,'' said Sean Q. Kelly, an associate professor of political science at Niagara University. ''When the government comes in and says there's no problem in a place like Model City, people don't believe it.'' 
 While Love Canal's origins are now largely forgotten, the horrors of what came later are well known. The Hooker Chemical Company of Niagara Falls used it as a dumping ground. The canal was capped in the early 1950's and sold to the city for $1. 
 In the 1970's, water seeped through the broken cap and forced chemicals into the basements of homes that had been built near the canal. Residents organized and demanded action, which provided the catalyst for passage of the federal Superfund law to identify and clean up the worst industrial pollution sites in the country. 
 Some residents -- the ones who, like 78-year-old Sam Giarrizzo, never considered the canal all that dangerous to begin with -- were relieved when the Environmental Protection Agency said in March that the $400 million cleanup was over. A resident of the Love Canal neighborhood since 1957, Mr. Giarrizzo never moved. 
 But while some of the contaminated houses have been bulldozed and lie buried beneath the surface along with the 20,000 tons of hazardous chemicals that could not be removed, Mr. Love's dream-turned-nightmare lives on.
 ''You never get rid of Love Canal,'' Mr. Giarrizzo said of the lingering atmosphere of doubt. ''We'll have it forever.'' 
 Although the city of Niagara Falls is trying to erase the memory of these problems -- even renaming the Love Canal neighborhood Black Creek Village -- residents are bracing for a new round of controversy. Sometime next year, the State Department of Health is expected to release the results of an epidemiological study of 6,000 people who lived in the Love Canal neighborhood from the 1940's to the late 1970's.
 That study is examining the rates of cancer, mortality and birth defects among those residents and comparing them with the rates in the rest of Niagara County and the state. 
 Luella Kenny, 67, moved from Love Canal to nearby Grand Island two decades ago after Jon, her 7-year-old son, died of a kidney ailment. She believes Love Canal chemicals that seeped into a creek behind her house made him ill. 
 Mrs. Kenny, who is participating in the state study, said she feared that it might turn out to be inconclusive, which would allow detractors to claim that Love Canal had never presented any real danger. 
 ''If you take down Love Canal, you take down everything,'' she said. ''All the grassroots groups fighting around the country would be undone.'' 
 One of those community environmental groups is in Model City, where the grimy front windows of the Model City Country Inn look out on a steady stream of trucks loaded with waste headed to either the Chemical Waste Management landfill or a huge garbage dump next to it. The Chemical Waste site is the only commercial hazardous waste landfill in the Northeast and contains some of the contaminated soil from Love Canal. 
 State and federal officials consider the Chemical Waste site to be well run and have no objections to its continued operation. But William C. Roland, a local resident, thinks 62 years of being dumped on is enough. He belongs to Residents for Responsible Government, which fears that the site's operation has harmed the health of people living nearby. 
 During a recent public hearing, which drew more than 650 residents, he said he has taken cues from Lois Gibbs, the Love Canal resident who received national attention for her cleanup demands by refusing to allow a federal official to leave a meeting until some action was taken. 
 ''We wanted to do this professionally,'' Mr. Roland said, ''but if we have to do what Lois Gibbs did, we will.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Luella Kenny, 67, at the Love Canal site. She moved after her son died. (Photo by Dan Cappellazzo for The New York Times)Map of New York State highlighting Love Canal and Model City: Model City was to get Love Canal's water, not its contamination.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (89%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (89%); LANDFILLS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (89%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (71%); SOLID WASTE COLLECTION (71%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (51%) Waste Materials and Disposal; Hazardous and Toxic Substances; Chemicals

COMPANY: CHEMICAL WASTE MANAGEMENT INC (81%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4953 REFUSE SYSTEMS (81%)

PERSON: Anthony Depalma

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Model City (NYS); Love Canal (NY)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2004



15 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; STRIPLINGS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: Adolescents in Adult City: Often From Elsewhere, and Often Going Nowhere

BYLINE: By CHARLIE LeDUFF

DATELINE: LAS VEGAS, May 27 

 BODY:
City elders tried marketing Las Vegas as a family destination. The scheme was jettisoned for a new campaign that hypes Las Vegas as America's grown-up romper room, the center of sin and indulgence. 
 Now the hotel rooms are full, and people keep moving here to take jobs building and cleaning them. Las Vegas grows at a supersonic rate. But within this growth lie seeds of conflict. Away from the adult fantasy of the Strip, Sin City and its suburbs crawl with children and parents trying to raise them. One in four Las Vegans is a minor. 
 The witch's brew of adolescence in a 24-hour town takes a toll on teenagers here. Consider that Nevada, led by Las Vegas and the suburbs of Clark County, ranks near the bottom for a host of teenage afflictions: violence, drug use, pregnancy, suicide and drop-out rates. The schools are crowded and underfinanced, leading to a churning system that tends to lose track of children. According to the Nevada Department of Education, more than 12 percent of high school students drop out in senior year. Moreover, 36 percent of Clark County students were not enrolled for the entire school year.
 Who needs high school anyway? teenagers ask. Not when valet parking attendants tell stories about making $100,000 a year. Here, stripping and blackjack dealing are viable career choices. To a teenager, adult life in Las Vegas can look easy. 
 Part of the easy life is acting hard. While the juvenile population increased 20 percent over the last four years, juvenile delinquency increased more than 30 percent, according to a state report. There are more than 150 gangs now, including a growing white supremacist element.
 All big cities have their problems, city leaders are quick to point out. Children struggle everywhere. But Nevada consistently ranks poorly among states on issues affecting children's well-being, according to ''Nevada Kids Count,'' a report by the Center for Business and Economic Research at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas.
 ''Just half of Nevada's residents have lived here more than 11 years,'' said Dr. R. Keith Schwer, the center's director. ''Lots of people coming and going. It has a toll on kids, particularly children.''
 The chaos of growth is one problem. Another is the type of people that growth and opportunity attract. Broken and blended families come for a new life. Second chancers, they are called.
 ''People come here with problems from somewhere else,'' said Jonathan Vansboskerck, an assistant district attorney who prosecutes juveniles. ''Parents work split shifts and kids take their cues from each other. Unsupervised homes, basically.'' 
 Broken families or traditional ones, it does not seem to matter. Parents often work the swing or graveyard shifts and do not arrive home until well after dark. With so many families from out of state, there are few aunties or grandmothers or cousins to speak of, leaving a tribe of unsupervised teenagers. High school lets out at 1:10 p.m., hours before parents make their long commutes home from the Strip. Teenagers are most likely to have sex when parents are not at home, according to the ''Kids First'' study, in those afternoon and evening hours when Mom and Dad are working. 
 While there are after-school activities like study hall and sports leagues and 4-H Clubs, there are not enough of them, said Donna Coleman, a former state school board member and executive director of the Children's Advocacy Alliance, a nonprofit group that studies children's issues. 
 ''Whatever we're doing, it's not working and we need to do more,'' Ms. Coleman said. ''A lot of the problem is parental responsibility. The influence of the profligate adult life, the lack of a coherent community, no extended family. Who's looking after the children and who's going to pay for it?''
 For example, Ms. Coleman points out, while schools require a suicide prevention course, there are no suicide prevention programs. The suicide hotline is a toll-free number that routes callers out of state.
 Then there is the issue of sex for sale. The billboards featuring tacit lesbian sex are everywhere. Sin City is full of men plying convenience stores and bus stations and street corners for lonely, unsupervised girls. The neon draw of the Strip can be hard to resist. 
 ''Kids are getting bombarded by the stimulation of today's society, particularly in Las Vegas,'' said Tom Waite, site director of Girls and Boys Town of Nevada, which counsels and shelters runaways and others. ''We're tying to calm the kids down.''
 Parents go to extreme lengths to keep children on the right road. Jannie Poulos, 39, is a daytime bartender at a local tavern on the affluent northwest side of town. On those days that she cannot find a baby sitter, or there are no after-school events, her son comes to the bar and has a soda in the back. 
 ''I grew up here and so I know better,'' she said. ''It's the kids from Iowa getting caught up in the moment. If you're going to raise a kid here with these kinds of influences, you have to know what your kid is up to. You have to care about them, basically.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: One in four people living in Las Vegas and its suburbs is a minor. Adolescence in a 24-hour town can take its toll. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (89%); FAMILY (89%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (79%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (77%); CITY LIFE (74%); CITIES (74%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (73%); RANKINGS (69%); SUICIDE (68%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (96%) NEVADA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2004



16 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 205 words

HEADLINE: IRAQ UPDATE

 BODY:

REDEFINED MISSION -- American commanders said that in support of the transfer of power on June 30, they were shifting the focus of the military's mission from offensive combat operations to protecting a new Iraqi government and parts of the economy while building up Iraqi security forces. [A1]

DEATHS IN KUFA -- Two American soldiers died in fighting in Kufa as a truce with militiamen of a rebel cleric collapsed. The governor of nearby Najaf said Shiite leaders had persuaded the cleric, Moktada al-Sadr, to agree to a new cease-fire if Americans suspended patrols, but American commanders did not endorse the deal.

Separately, two American soldiers were killed by roadside bombs, one in southwest Baghdad and another south of the city. A soldier died of wounds from a mortar attack in Mosul. [A9]

BAGHDAD BOMBING -- A car bomb exploded on a busy street near American headquarters, killing at least 4 Iraqi civilians and injuring at least 25 other people, military officials and witnesses said. [A9]

POLITICAL PROGRESS -- A former Iraqi foreign minister, Adnan Pachachi, emerged as the leading candidate for interim president, and American officials signaled that they would announce the completed interim Iraqi government today. [A8]


GRAPHIC: Map of Iraq highlighting Baghdad and other areas of interest. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (76%); TERRORISM (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: MOQTADA AL-SADR (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2004



17 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 687 words

HEADLINE: Qwest and MCI Break Impasse to Reach Pact on Network Leasing Rates

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 31 

 BODY:
Qwest Communications and MCI Inc. have reached an agreement over network leasing rates, officials and industry executives said yesterday, becoming the first of the major telecommunications companies to break a longstanding impasse over the rates.
 Other major phone companies, meanwhile, failed to resolve similar issues despite a weekend of intense negotiations involving top regulators and senior executives. 
 The agreement, which sets the price MCI will pay Qwest to use Qwest's network, was a minor breakthrough. Qwest is the smallest of the regional Bell companies and MCI is the nation's second-largest long distance provider. And it follows more than a month of mediation between the two companies. Terms of the deal were not disclosed. 
 The larger bell companies, Verizon, SBC Communications and BellSouth, were unable to reach any deals, as was AT&T, the biggest long distance carrier. But a senior executive said Monday night that he hoped that the deal between Qwest and MCI would encourage others to end their long legal and lobbying battles and strike similar agreements.
 The talks between the companies were ordered last week by Michael K. Powell, chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, as the agency and the industry face impending legal deadlines. As the Bush administration considers whose side to take in the lobbying war over the leasing rates, top executives from both sides decided to participate in the discussions in order not to offend government officials and regulators.
 Participants in the discussions included Ivan Seidenberg, Verizon's chairman and chief executive, Michael D. Capellas, MCI's president and chief executive, and David W. Dorman, the chairman and chief executive of AT&T. 
 But participants in the discussions said that the talks have left both sides far apart, with the exception of Qwest and MCI. Still, the deal was the most significant one in the area since an appeals court earlier this year threw out the old rate rules.
 The talks were the latest round in what has been years of litigation and lobbying over the relationship between the regional Bell companies and their rivals. The issue involved in the discussions amounts to billions of dollars in payments made by the long distance providers and small telephone companies to the regional Bell companies. Those small rivals say that their industry, which was created by the Telecommunications Act of 1996 and its requirement for low-cost leasing, could be largely obliterated by any significant increases in lease rates. 
 The Bell companies have replied that they are not getting a large enough financial return on their leased equipment to justify making significant new capital expenditures. They also maintain that the marketplace has become sufficiently competitive and that the rate structure is no longer justified.
 ''This is a historic day for our industry. Qwest and MCI proved that two companies that are direct competitors can embrace the principals of a free-market economy and reach a commercial services agreement that will allow them, together, to serve customers well,'' said Richard C. Notebaert, Qwest's chairman and chief executive.
 Mr. Capellas of MCI, said, ''It has been MCI's position that good faith commercial negotiations can result in agreements that reflect the changing industry landscape and avoid complex regulatory proceedings and litigation.''
 Last March, a federal appeals court handed a big victory to the four large regional Bell telephone companies by striking down regulations that had required the Bells to lease their local networks to rival companies at low prices set by state regulators. The rules had been adopted by a deeply divided F.C.C. in which Mr. Powell found himself in partial dissent. But his view was vindicated by the decision by the appeals court, which supported the Bells and was a substantial blow to AT&T, WorldCom and smaller companies that have relied on inexpensive access to the local networks to reach their customers.
 The decision by the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia threw the rate scheme into significant doubt. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (91%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (91%); LOBBYING (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); LEASING INDUSTRY (89%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (89%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (78%); CAPITAL EQUIPMENT LEASING (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); LITIGATION (62%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (60%); APPEALS COURTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (96%); AT&T INC (95%); CENTURYLINK INC (92%); AT&T SOUTHEAST (56%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (55%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (96%); VZ (NYSE) (96%); T (NYSE) (95%); CTL (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (96%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (96%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (95%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (92%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (56%)

PERSON: MICHAEL CAPELLAS (58%); IVAN SEIDENBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2004



18 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 884 words

HEADLINE: This Time The Actor Is a Pol

BYLINE: By Lou Cannon. 
Lou Cannon is the author of five biographies of , Ronald Reagan.

DATELINE: SUMMERLAND, Calif. 

 BODY:
True, the parallels were unmistakable: a Republican actor and political neophyte storms to the California governor's mansion, promising that as an outsider he alone can clean up the fiscal mess in Sacramento. And in the six months since Arnold Schwarzenegger took office, the comparisons with Ronald Reagan have been staples of his news coverage. But in truth, the similarities between the men ended shortly after Mr. Schwarzenegger was sworn in. In many ways, he has made himself into the non-Reagan -- with remarkable results.
 Nobody saw this coming, especially not the new governor. Just before his election victory, he happily told Peter Jennings that were he to win, the state's political establishment would ''go crazy.'' On his first day in office, he made good on his one solid campaign pledge by repealing an increase in the state's much-hated car tax. 
 Yet since then, he has been transformed into a master politician, wheeling and dealing with the Democratic-controlled legislature and pulling off a string of surprising victories. He has also been able to negotiate with many constituencies historically leery of Republicans, including the California Teachers Association, the trustees of the state's two university systems, and the public employees' unions. 
 In comparison, Ronald Reagan was suspicious of legislators after taking office in 1967 and didn't rush into negotiations. It wasn't really until his second term, beginning in 1971, that he sat down with Democratic leaders and hammered out notable compromises on welfare reform and other issues.
 The gregarious Mr. Schwarzenegger, however, has been cheerfully dealing with the opposition since his first day in office, often over cigars in a tent in a courtyard outside his office. He has even bonded with the crusty, very liberal State Senate leader, John Burton. ''Arnold's a negotiator,'' Mr. Burton told me. ''He negotiated all these movie deals.'' Mr. Burton praised the governor as being far more ''engaged'' than his predecessor, Gray Davis, a Democrat and career politician. 
 This engagement has paid off. First, he persuaded voters to pass a $15 billion bond issue to deal with the state's accumulated debt. The measure trailed in the polls initially, but the governor campaigned strongly for it and persuaded voters that California had no other choice. Voters also approved a companion measure that established a modest spending cap, which is intended to keep the state from bingeing in flush times, as during the dot-com boom. 
 Then he negotiated with Mr. Burton and the legislature to pass a bill that reformed California's troubled and expensive workers' compensation program, an achievement that eluded previous governors of both parties. He used a stick as well as a carrot, gathering signatures at Costco stores for an initiative that would have added to the ballot a workers' compensation bill less friendly to workers. That initiative was dropped after the workers' comp bill was passed.
 On the heels of this victory, he negotiated deals with officials of the state's university systems, and they accepted budget cuts and tuition increases this year in exchange for a promise against future cuts. And now he is shooting for a rarest of achievements: a balanced budget passed by the end of the June 30 fiscal year. Passing it on time is critical for local governments so they will know how much money they will get from the state. 
 This will be the highest hurdle for the governor, who told me that while it ''takes two to tango'' he thinks the chances of pulling it off are very high. Few agree, but not even Mr. Burton, who will lead the legislative dance, sees it as a nonstarter. ''I think it's unlikely to happen,'' he told me. ''But then again, I didn't think we were going to get workers' comp.'' 
 Perhaps the governor's biggest break with the Reagan legacy has come on taxes. Mr. Reagan, who inherited a whopping budget deficit, eliminated it at one swoop by agreeing to a mammoth and surprisingly progressive $1 billion income tax increase. Mr. Schwarzenegger, however, has opposed any tax increase this year on the grounds that it would dampen California's slowly improving business climate. While it's true that raising taxes in today's political climate would be much harder than in the late 60's, it's notable that most Sacramento Democrats have refrained from calling for new taxes to avoid those spending cuts. He has also evolved in terms of his lenience on spending, recently restoring money to social programs that last year were scheduled to be cut. 
 Not everyone is sold. Elizabeth Hill, the nonpartisan analyst for the legislature, contends that the governor's $103-billion budget is balanced by borrowings and short-term fixes that are almost certain to lead to future deficits. Even members of the Schwarzenegger team acknowledge privately that he is basically kicking the can down the road, hoping that an improved economy will enable him to avoid a budget shortfall and a tax increase next year. Conservatives (and many Democrats) criticized Gray Davis for offering such smoke-and-mirror budgets, but they're all smiles over Mr. Schwarzenegger, who has managed to charm both the voters and the Sacramento political establishment he once disdained. His budget isn't pretty, but that's politics.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Marc Rosenthal) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (71%); WORKERS COMPENSATION LAW (70%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (70%); APPROVALS (68%); LABOR UNIONS (65%); BOND ISSUES (64%); BONDS (64%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (89%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (92%); MADISON, WI, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2004



19 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; Science Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1318 words

HEADLINE: A Great Spanish Explorer, Blown Off Course From Fame

BYLINE: By JOHN NOBLE WILFORD

DATELINE: PROVIDENCE, R.I. 

 BODY:
Capt. James Cook needs no introduction. Son of the commonest soil of Yorkshire, he rose to command three voyages that opened European minds to the wide world of the Pacific Ocean and epitomized maritime exploration in the 18th-century Enlightenment. Even his cruel death, in 1779, only magnified his heroic reputation.
 Then there is Alejandro Malaspina, Spain's answer to Cook and a brave, intelligent explorer in his own right. He led a five-year scientific expedition, in 1789-94, that charted the western coast of the Americas and traversed the Pacific as far as the Philippines, with a side trip to China.
 Yet Malaspina might as well have sailed off the edge of the earth, so forgotten have he and his achievements been in the annals of exploration over the last two centuries. He was without honor even in his own country. On his return to Spain, he ran aground on the shoals of domestic politics and was thrown in prison, his journals suppressed and his name virtually stricken from Spanish history. 
 Now, finally, Malaspina is being rescued from oblivion. A comprehensive edition of his journals was published by the Naval Museum in Madrid in 1990, and English translations -- ''The Malaspina Expedition, 1789-1794'' -- are being issued by the Hakluyt Society, a London organization that publishes accounts of geographical discovery. The second volume was introduced in April at a symposium here at the John Carter Brown Library. The final English volume is to be published at the end of the year.
 Scholars at the symposium said the publications would restore to history an overlooked chapter in the scientific exploration of the Enlightenment. They expect a proliferation of studies of Malaspina and Spain's role in what had been viewed as a largely British and French endeavor.
 ''This is the beginning of a Malaspina industry,'' said Dr. Norman Fiering, director of the library, an independent research institution at Brown University.
 Dr. John B. Hattendorf, a professor of maritime history at the Naval War College in Newport, R.I., explained that Malaspina's voyage ''made very little impact at the time because of his political problems'' and had been neglected since because of the lack of published documentation. Only a few specialists, he said, have known anything about the Spanish mariner.
 ''He was one of the greatest and one of the least known explorers of the 18th century,'' said Andrew David, a retired British hydrographer and an editor of the journal's English translation.
 Malaspina was 33 when he set sail from Cadiz on July 30, 1789, commander of what historians call Spain's greatest scientific expedition. He was born Italian, like Columbus and Amerigo Vespucci before him, and as the third son of a minor noble, had to look elsewhere for a place in life. He became an officer in the Spanish navy.
 The expedition was instructed to inspect the Spanish territories in America and the Philippines, as well as make new hydrographic charts and gather information on indigenous people, flora and fauna, and other natural resources. On board were cartographers, botanists, zoologists, artists and some officers who doubled as ethnographers.
 Both in inspiration and preparation, the expedition drew on the example of Cook and to a lesser extent, the French mariner Louis Antoine de Bougainville. Malaspina had many occasions in his journal to cite Cook's advice and experience.
 ''There is no doubt that Cook's voyages were the yardstick against which Malaspina measured his own,'' Dr. Donald C. Cutter, an emeritus history professor at the University of New Mexico, wrote in an introduction to the first English volume of Malaspina's journals.
 Two identical three-masted ships were built especially for the voyage. Each was 120-feet long, with a 31 1/2-foot beam and copper-lined wooden bottoms. Their shallow drafts gave them access to shallow harbors and estuaries.
 The Descubierta, commanded by Malaspina, and the Atrevida, by Jose Bustamante, reached South America, rounded Cape Horn and spent almost three years surveying the coastal waters from Chile to Alaska. At each anchorage, mapping parties got their bearings in observations of the sun and stars, checked the chronometer for longitude and made gravity measurements to determine variations in the shape of the earth. Naturalists went on specimen-collecting treks deep in the interior.
 Malaspina noted in his journal that ''many times our crews had to recover at sea from the debilitating effects of time ashore, rather than restoring in port the usual ravages of life at sea.''
 It is not clear whether the crews mostly suffered from an excess of onshore work or revelry.
 Malaspina passed up a visit to the Galapagos Islands, Mr. David noted, ''thereby forestalling his scientists from discoveries anticipating Darwin.''
 North of Mexico, the waters and lands became less and less familiar. Heavy winds pushed the ships far offshore, just when they might have discovered the Columbia River outlet. The expedition was then investigating claims of a Northwest Passage connecting the Atlantic and the Pacific.
 Once that search was abandoned, the expedition conducted studies of the Pacific Northwest cultures, including their languages. Scholars think ethnographic research there was one of the voyage's principal achievements. But Spanish motives were not entirely scientific: Cook had hinted at the vast resources of Alaska, and the Russians were moving in.
 Malaspina also conducted groundbreaking research in the Tonga Islands, a place Cook had never seen. The Spanish captain also had time for an artist to draw him being groomed by two young women of Tonga.
 Although Malaspina's journal dwells mostly on daily life at sea, weather and distances, sickness and dwindling stores, scholars said that on close reading the man's character comes through. He was no bullying captain, they said, and his views of the people encountered were unusually humane.
 ''He was an intrepid mariner, brave, sure of his own judgment,'' Dr. Hattendorf said. ''I wouldn't have minded serving under Malaspina, and I can't say that about some exploring mariners.''
 Mr. David detected signs that Malaspina grew depressed in the last months of the voyage. Perhaps the duration and hardships of life at sea were taking a toll. He grew sharply critical of some officers, though there had been few cases of insubordination and no serious rumblings of mutiny.
 Or perhaps shadows of foreboding were crossing his mind. Malaspina's inspection of the Spanish colonies left him critical of their political and economic prospects. The empire was indeed in decline and would soon be prey to growing independence movements. Malaspina made no secret of his liberal ideas for colonial reform and that, Dr. Cutter observed, ''eventually brought a premature end to his career.''
 While the expedition was in the Pacific, King Carlos III, a farsighted ruler in touch with the ideas of the Enlightenment, died and was succeeded by his son, Carlos IV. The French Revolution alarmed all monarchies, especially Spain's. The new king and his reactionary prime minister considered Malaspina a dangerous radical.
 Tried in secret, Malaspina was stripped of his rank and consigned to prison and then exile for the rest of his life. (By contrast, the more politically circumspect Bustamante eventually became the navy's director-general.) The expedition records, including 300 journals, 450 notebooks and 183 charts, were impounded or scattered, unpublished and unstudied, as forgotten as the expedition's commander.
 Malaspina died in 1810 in northern Italy, not far from his birthplace and far short of the acclaim history has bestowed on Cook. But Spain's ambassador to the United States, Javier Ruperez, who attended the symposium, welcomed the revived attention to Malaspina, whose life, he said, ''was a reflection of our national history in its glory and in its suffering.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: One of Alejandro Malaspina's ships off Guayaquil, Ecuador, in 1790. On board were artists who drew flora found on the voyage. (Photographs courtesy of Museo Naval, Madrid)Chart/Map: ''Fantastic Voyage''Two ships under Malaspina's command left Cadiz, Spain, in 1789, and spent five years journeying around the world.Map of the world highlighting the following:Voyages of the two ships togetherVoyages of the two ships separately(Source by Hakluyt Society)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (89%); NAVIES (77%); OCEANOGRAPHY (77%); SAILING (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); LIBRARIES (72%); PUBLISHING (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (67%); LITERATURE (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%) Exploration and Explorers; Books and Literature; Maps; Exploration and Explorers

PERSON: JOHN CARTER (71%) John Noble Wilford; Alejandro (1756-1810) Malaspina

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (92%); NEWPORT, RI, USA (79%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) PACIFIC OCEAN (92%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (86%); ANDALUSIA, SPAIN (79%) SPAIN (97%); UNITED STATES (86%); CHINA (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); ECUADOR (79%) Spain; Italy

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2004



20 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Congressional Memo; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1046 words

HEADLINE: A Senator Once Isolated on Trade Now Finds a Chorus

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH BECKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 31 

 BODY:
In the late 1990's, a young aide introduced himself to Robert E. Rubin, then the treasury secretary, as the trade specialist on the staff of Senator Ernest F. Hollings, one of the very few members of Congress who calls himself a protectionist.
 ''Isn't that a bit like doing human rights for Joseph Stalin?'' asked Mr. Rubin, with a grin.
 Until recently, that comment pretty much summed up the prevailing opinion of Mr. Hollings. An 82-year-old Democrat, he has spent most of the post-cold-war era swimming against the tsunami tide of trade liberalization engineered by his own party under President Bill Clinton. And he has suffered the consequences, having been often marginalized in the trade debate. But now, as Mr. Hollings prepares to retire to South Carolina after 38 years in the Senate, he is finding a spate of new allies in his battle against the conventional wisdom on trade. 
 He is no longer alone in his criticism of tax breaks for companies that shift their jobs and incomes abroad, or in his insistence that in trade agreements, labor standards and the environment need to be protected as much as capital investments.
 His colleague, Senator John Kerry, the Democratic Party's presumed nominee for president, has made those ideas part of his campaign speeches.
 Indeed, Mr. Hollings is feeling more than a slight pang of regret that as he leaves the national stage his ideas are becoming part of the mainstream, especially the notion that free trade should be part of a broader national strategy that protects the American middle class, the base of American democracy. 
 ''As soon as I said we have to protect our standard of living they came around like Pavlovian jackasses jumping up and down and saying, 'protectionist, protectionist,''' Mr. Hollings said in an interview. ''Unfortunately, now that the trade debate is going my way I'm retiring.''
 Protection for Mr. Hollings is making sure that new trade agreements do not undermine hard-won social protections at home, from the New Deal reforms to the Environmental Protection Agency, occupational safety rules and the minimum wage.
 That has led him to question full-blown free-trade agreements with countries that are not at the same level of development as the United States, a position that remains distinctly unpopular just about everywhere except with his constituents.
 That does not disturb him.
 ''Changing the culture on trade is like changing the culture of the South on racism,'' Mr. Hollings said. ''It's going to take time.'' 
 Many of the senator's predictions have come to pass: The United States' trade deficit has reached record highs rather than disappearing under the trade accords, even as Japan and the European Union enjoy trade surpluses. 
 The North American Free Trade Agreement has failed to deliver on its promises to raise living standards, provide hundreds of thousands of new, well-paying jobs on both sides of the border and curb illegal immigration to the United States. 
 And the expanding global trading system has proved such a disappointment to poorer countries that they are clamoring for new global trade laws. 
 The problem, said Mr. Hollings, is setting trade policy largely with business interests in mind.
 ''We need a national trade policy like Japan, China and Europe where they put the national welfare first,'' he said. ''We leave our trade policy in the hands of the philistines who are out to make profits however they can.''
 That assessment places Mr. Hollings somewhere on the political spectrum between the left-leaning critics of globalization who contend that the multinational corporations are undermining the world's poor, and the right-leaning nationalists who complain that the United States is giving away the candy store in trade agreements.
 As governor of South Carolina from 1958 through 1962, Mr. Hollings won foreign investment and expanded exports. But in the past decade his state's textile industry has been nearly destroyed by foreign competition, leading many politicians, including his allies, to conclude that his trade policies are colored by South Carolina's woes.
 Even Representative Charles B. Rangel, a New York Democrat who considers himself a friend of Mr. Hollings, said, ''I don't know of many trade bills he would be supportive of because I don't think there's any state that's been hit harder than South Carolina in the loss of manufacturing jobs.''
 Charlene Barshefsky, the United States trade representative under President Clinton, regularly sparred with Mr. Hollings over trade in the late 1990's. What Mr. Hollings considers a realist approach, she said, was actually unduly protectionist.
 But she agrees that his views have become more attractive, especially his accent on dislocated workers and hollowed-out communities. 
 ''The force of his arguments is enhanced by their emotional appeal, especially given the current economic climate and the challenges the U.S. faces in general,'' Ms. Barshefsky said. 
 Mr. Hollings's fall and rise from grace on trade issues can be traced from the national debate on Nafta. 
 In a lengthy article in Foreign Policy 10 years ago, Mr. Hollings staked out his role as chief naysayer of the accord. He wrote in the magazine that the agreement was too weak to ''adequately redress the tremendous disparity between our economies'' and would end up hurting workers in both countries.
 Instead, he advocated creating a common market with Mexico that would include significant funds to develop Mexico's democratic institutions as trade expanded and that would protect wage earners as much as corporate profits. 
 ''I propose an alternative approach that puts democracy first and rewards democratic progress with economic and trade privileges culminating in the creation of a Common Market for the Americas,'' he wrote then.
 Those views earned him the ire of leaders of developing countries who said they wanted trade agreements with the United States to win access to the world's largest economy. 
 While the trade debate may be moving closer to Mr. Hollings, his prognosis is still grim. 
 ''We're bleeding manufacturing jobs, the plants are leaving and we're racking up a trade deficit,'' he said. ''I'm warning you that the world power that loses its manufacturing capacity no longer is a world power.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: His office decor aside, Senator Ernest F. Hollings is a protectionist. (Photo by Chris Ramirez for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); PROTECTIONISM (89%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (87%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); COLD WAR (76%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); LIVING STANDARDS (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (67%); MINIMUM WAGE (67%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (66%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); BILL CLINTON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2004



21 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: Dooh Nibor Economics

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN. 
E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Last week The Washington Post got hold of an Office of Management and Budget memo that directed federal agencies to prepare for post-election cuts in programs that George Bush has been touting on the campaign trail. These include nutrition for women, infants and children; Head Start; and homeland security. The numbers match those on a computer printout leaked earlier this year -- one that administration officials claimed did not reflect policy.
 Beyond the routine mendacity, the case of the leaked memo points us to a larger truth: whatever they may say in public, administration officials know that sustaining Mr. Bush's tax cuts will require large cuts in popular government programs. And for the vast majority of Americans, the losses from these cuts will outweigh any gains from lower taxes. 
 It has long been clear that the Bush administration's claim that it can simultaneously pursue war, large tax cuts and a ''compassionate'' agenda doesn't add up. Now we have direct confirmation that the White House is engaged in bait and switch, that it intends to pursue a not at all compassionate agenda after this year's election. 
 That agenda is to impose Dooh Nibor economics -- Robin Hood in reverse. The end result of current policies will be a large-scale transfer of income from the middle class to the very affluent, in which about 80 percent of the population will lose and the bulk of the gains will go to people with incomes of more than $200,000 per year.
 I can't back that assertion with official numbers, because under Mr. Bush the Treasury Department has stopped releasing information on the distribution of tax cuts by income level. Estimates by the Urban Institute-Brookings Institution Tax Policy Center, which now provides the numbers the administration doesn't want you to know, reveal why. This year, the average tax reduction per family due to Bush-era cuts was $1,448. But this average reflects huge cuts for a few affluent families, with most families receiving much less (which helps explain why most people, according to polls, don't believe their taxes have been cut). In fact, the 257,000 taxpayers with incomes of more than $1 million received a bigger combined tax cut than the 85 million taxpayers who make up the bottom 60 percent of the population. 
 Still, won't most families gain something? No -- because the tax cuts must eventually be offset with spending cuts.
 Three years ago George Bush claimed that he was cutting taxes to return a budget surplus to the public. Instead, he presided over a move to huge deficits. As a result, the modest tax cuts received by the great majority of Americans are, in a fundamental sense, fraudulent. It's as if someone expected gratitude for giving you a gift, when he actually bought it using your credit card.
 The administration has not, of course, explained how it intends to pay the bill. But unless taxes are increased again, the answer will have to be severe program cuts, which will fall mainly on Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid -- because that's where the bulk of the money is.
 For most families, the losses from these cuts will far outweigh any gain from lower taxes. My back-of-the-envelope calculation suggests that 80 percent of all families will end up worse off; the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities will soon come out with a more careful, detailed analysis that arrives at a similar conclusion. And the only really big beneficiaries will be the wealthiest few percent of the population.
 Does Mr. Bush understand that the end result of his policies will be to make most Americans worse off, while enriching the already affluent? Who knows? But the ideologues and political operatives behind his agenda know exactly what they're doing.
 Of course, voters would never support this agenda if they understood it. That's why dishonesty -- as illustrated by the administration's consistent reliance on phony accounting, and now by the business with the budget cut memo -- is such a central feature of the White House political strategy. 
 Right now, it seems that the 2004 election will be a referendum on Mr. Bush's calamitous foreign policy. But something else is at stake: whether he and his party can lock in the unassailable political position they need to proceed with their pro-rich, anti-middle-class economic strategy. And no, I'm not engaging in class warfare. They are. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); FAMILY (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (70%); FALSE OR MISLEADING ADVERTISING (67%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (63%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (84%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2004



22 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS TRAVEL: ON THE ROAD; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1041 words

HEADLINE: Contemplating the Crowded Skies of the Summer

BYLINE: By Joe Sharkey. 
On the Road appears each Tuesday. E-mail: jsharkey@nytimes.com.

DATELINE: HOUSTON 

 BODY:
THE George Bush Intercontinental Airport, which some pilots wryly call the George Bush Intergalactic Airport in reference to the grandiloquence of its title, is not a bad place to contemplate the summer of 2004, as domestic air travel finally returns to pre-Sept. 11 levels.
 I was waiting for a connecting flight on Saturday morning when the surreal nature of air travel as it is currently constituted locked in. Bush Intercontinental, like other major airports, is visibly growing more crowded as summer approaches. According to data from OAG, the publisher of the schedules, airlines have scheduled 40,393 flights from Bush Intercontinental in June. That is 8.9 percent more flights than last June. 
 On Saturday, departure lounges were jammed. Giggling children with small backpacks played games on the floor. Business travelers snapped cellphones shut and hustled to make a connection home for the weekend. Electric carts packed with passengers like coal mine cars at quitting time negotiated thronged corridors. The papers in the newsstands carried reports of vague threats of terrorist attacks this summer.
 Meanwhile, a recorded announcement, unusual in its bluntness, as far as I know, echoed at regular intervals. Eerily, a cheerful female voice kept warning that ''any inappropriate remarks or jokes concerning the security process may result in your arrest.''
 Who decides what is inappropriate? I sure hoped it wasn't somebody like the surly sumo-wrestler-size security guard who had snarled at me at the New Orleans airport a few hours earlier for presenting my boarding pass upside-down. Still, I will resist the impulse here to make jokes, but I'll hazard a few remarks, hopefully appropriate, on security and on the general outlook for air travel this summer.
 First, let us assume that the current state of airport security, purely from the safety standpoint, is adequate. (That is not an assumption necessarily shared by some security experts, who have been saying for years that while airport screeners studiously pat down octogenarians in wheelchairs, vast areas of airport infrastructures remain vulnerable). 
 But security, at least from the standpoint of crowd management, is one area where business and leisure travelers alike will get a feel for the ability of our air transport system to respond acceptably to back-to-normal traffic this summer. 
 Summer traffic always includes large numbers of people who are not experienced fliers, but even frequent business travelers often approach checkpoints uneasily, as they scramble to remove laptops from cases, shoes from feet and coins from pockets while keeping track of boarding passes and photo ID's. Sporadic delays of an hour or more have already been reported at some airports. To move things along, the Transportation Security Administration has begun deploying some screeners to assist passengers unfamiliar with the process. 
 One chronic problem in checkpoint delays is that some otherwise law-abiding knuckleheads do not realize that there are certain things you cannot carry through a checkpoint without causing delay -- like (duh) a handgun. A spokesman, Mark Hatfield, said the security agency still routinely confiscated handguns from people who evidently forget they had tucked them away in a carry-on bag. Among the contraband most often flagged at checkpoints, ''the top three are scissors, knives and Mace,'' Mr. Hatfield said.
 Unfortunately, there is still no reliable way for the public to monitor airport security delays. ''Passengers, airlines and airports need accurate information concerning all aspects of their travel experience. It is time for detailed airport-specific data to be collected and reported, similar to the process used by the airlines'' to report flight delays, Kenneth M. Mead, inspector general of the Department of Transportation, recently told a Senate committee. Such a system might be modeled on the Web site the Federal Aviation Administration maintains for real-time airport flight-delay information (www.faa.gov).
 Anticipating the summer surge, airlines have been increasing flights and capacity. Domestic airline seat capacity is up 5.2 percent over last summer, according to Executive Travel Sky Guide. 
 But the surge in traffic should be measured against another dynamic -- the economic troubles of domestic airlines, especially the network carriers, whose losses are being aggravated by fuel prices that have risen 55 percent from this time last year. Many airline industry experts say they believe that the outlines of an anticipated shake-up and consolidation of the industry may become clear by the end of summer. 
 Airlines are increasingly desperate to cut operating costs in an environment where air fares remain low and cut-throat competition allows no slack in pricing. United Airlines, a unit of UAL, imposed a $10 fuel surcharge on round-trip tickets last week, but retreated by the weekend after competitors refused to follow.
 In the first quarter of 2004, most domestic airlines managed to reduce their operating costs. American Airlines, a unit of AMR, cut its cost per available seat mile 16.7 percent, to 9.49 cents, compared with the 2003 first quarter. US Airways reduced that cost 2.6 percent, to 11.68 cents. That was still the highest in the industry, and a far cry from JetBlue, at 6.08 cents, down 2.9 percent. At Southwest, long the low-fare powerhouse, costs actually rose 4.3 percent, to 7.82 cents. 
 Concerned about rising costs, Southwest last week offered buyout packages to many of its 34,000 employees, though the airline did not specify how many job reductions it was seeking. 
 ''Let's not forget that Southwest is still making money and still growing,'' said Alan Sbarra, a vice president of Unisys R2a Transportation Management Consultants.
 More seats in the air do not necessarily mean more profits, even with strong demand. With low-cost carriers applying fierce and unrelenting downward pressure on fares, even lower fares could result as the summer plays out and the battle becomes more intense. That is not good news for major carriers, who need every dime of revenue.
 ''Once you put the flight on the schedule,'' Mr. Sbarra said, ''you have to fill it up with whatever price you can get.'' 


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Chris Gash)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (91%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); AIR TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (89%); AVIATION SECURITY (89%); AIRPORT BODY SCANS & PAT DOWNS (78%); AIRLINES (78%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (77%); CHILDREN (74%); LEISURE TRAVEL (72%); TERRORISM (72%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (68%); MARTIAL ARTS (65%); SENIOR CITIZENS (61%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (54%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2004



23 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2004
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 490 words

HEADLINE: Crosses on the Border

 BODY:
Almost five months ago, President Bush announced that America's immigration policy was ''broken'' and that he was ready to mend it. Instantly, the anti-immigration forces in Mr. Bush's own party began venting their outrage about anything that might impose a measure of rationality on the system, especially if it eased the plight of the nation's millions of illegal immigrants. The White House has barely mentioned the issue since. 
 Sadly, this brief story in Washington has turned into an ongoing tragedy in places like the Sonoran Desert area in southern Arizona. American border agents working that unforgiving terrain have reported a spike in immigrant deaths as more people from Mexico try to navigate the deadly passage north. Many of them come with the mistaken impression that America's president has now made it possible for them to work in America legally. The plight of more immigrants running what one minister in Arizona calls ''the gantlet of death'' should send the latest and most urgent reminder to Washington. Mr. Bush and Congress need to start dealing seriously with comprehensive immigration reform.
 An overhaul of immigration policies that is humane and addresses both America's economic and security needs will be a painstaking affair. But that is no argument for waiting until after this year's elections to get started. In fact, more delays by the Bush White House will raise suspicions that the president's immigration policy was less a call for change than an appeal for Hispanic votes. At the same time, immigrants suffer at the borders, America's black market for labor thrives, and some 10 million immigrants live in an underground society that hardly enhances the nation's security.
 Two bills with strong bipartisan support in Congress could be passed swiftly with the president's support. One, the ''AgJobs'' bill, would help give legal status to half a million agricultural workers already laboring in this country. Another, the Dream Act, would allow the illegal immigrants' children who have grown up in this country to pay in-state tuition for college and eventually earn a path to citizenship. 
 The groundwork has also been laid on Capitol Hill for a more comprehensive reform. The president's vague proposal in January tracks a bill offered by Senator John McCain of Arizona and two of his Republican colleagues, while Democrats, including Senator Edward Kennedy of Massachusetts and Representative Robert Menendez of New Jersey, offer a more attractive alternative. It's a shame Mr. Bush refuses to prod these legislators to work on a compromise. 
 Mr. Bush early on identified the need for an ambitious immigration reform, but he has failed to exert himself on its behalf. In the meantime, the death toll in the desert keeps rising. The United States government has bought ads in Mexico pleading for ''no mas cruces en la frontera.'' Maybe it's time to buy some of those ads in Washington. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (95%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (76%); BORDER CONTROL (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (71%); DESERTS (70%); TUITION FEES (60%); FARM LABOR (50%); AGRICULTURE (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: TED KENNEDY (58%); BOB MENENDEZ (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2004



24 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1525 words

HEADLINE: Wyoming Insists It Needs Its Share Of Terror Funds

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT

DATELINE: CHEYENNE, Wyo., May 27 

 BODY:
It is hard to imagine there are many terrorist threats in a place where tumbleweeds regularly blow down the streets, as they do here in Wyoming's largest city and state capital.
 For those who doubt, however, Wyoming officials point to the two men who were stopped by a state trooper in February on Interstate 80 about 10 miles east of Cheyenne, near the Nebraska border. The men, thought by the state police to be white supremacists, had nine pipe bombs in the rented trailer attached to their rented truck. Wyoming officials disposed of the bombs using a robot bought with a federal antiterrorism grant.
 That grant was part of the very antiterrorism program that Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg recently called ''pork barrel politics at its worst.'' Testifying in May before the commission investigating the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, Mr. Bloomberg said too much money was going to places that face limited threats -- like Wyoming, whose population is about half a million, the smallest in the country -- which this year will receive more than $38 a person in antiterrorist financing, more than any other state and seven times the per-person amount that will flow to New York. 
 But as with the nuclear missiles that stand hidden in silos beneath the rolling hills and grassy plains here in the state's southeastern corner, the logic of why so much homeland security money seems to be flowing so freely in Wyoming can be found only below the surface.
 As was made clear recently by the vague descriptions of terrorist threats highlighted by Attorney General John Ashcroft and Robert S. Mueller III, the director of the F.B.I., no one except the terrorists themselves can know when or where the next strike will come. 
 ''If we understand anything about the psychology of terrorism,'' said Larry W. Majerus, deputy director of the Wyoming Office of Homeland Security, ''it is that attacks in the future are likely to be multiple and designed to get the biggest psychological effect they can possibly get. One way to do that is to attack in areas where there is the least capacity to respond,'' like Wyoming.
 Upon inspection, it is not terribly hard to find potential targets for terrorists here. If the exit on Interstate 25 marked ''Missile Drive'' is not enough of a hint, for example, then the models of three intercontinental ballistic missiles standing at the entrance to the Francis E. Warren Air Force Base, just off the Interstate, makes it clear that there is more going on here than meets the eye.
 The base is home to the 90th Space Wing, which oversees an arsenal of 150 Minuteman III and 50 Peacekeeper nuclear missiles. The missiles are spread across a network of underground silos in eastern Wyoming, western Nebraska and northern Colorado. Although military and state officials have kept extra-quiet about the arsenal and have tightened security around the base since 9/11, the locations of the missile silos can still be found on the Internet.
 Cheyenne, population 53,000, sits at the intersection of Interstate Highways 80 and 25, two of the nation's busiest arteries. The Union Pacific and Burlington Northern lines also intersect here, and rail freight cars are perhaps one of the few things that outnumber cows, buffalo or elk in this state.
 Both the railroads and the highways, of course, are used to transport large amounts of chemicals and hazardous waste, in addition to providing prime routes for terrorists to travel across the country. Wyoming is one of the country's biggest suppliers of beef and agricultural products, making the safety of the food supply a primary concern for state officials. Much of the coal used on the East Coast, meanwhile, originates here, and the state produces significant amounts of oil and gas. A power plant in southwestern Wyoming, near Rock Springs, provides power to much of the West Coast.
 To address these threats, Wyoming is scheduled to receive $18.8 million this fiscal year -- six-tenths of 1 percent of the $2.9 billion in counterterrorism grants being awarded by the federal Department of Homeland Security. 
 A majority of antiterrorism money is distributed to states based on population, with each state receiving a minimum amount. The rest is distributed according to a formula that takes into account relative risks faced by a state. Another pool allocates money to 50 cites and 30 transportation systems that are deemed to face the highest risks of terrorist attack. 
 Under this formula, Wyoming does receive the largest amount per capita, but its dollar total is the smallest of all 50 states. It is also about 11 percent of the $174 million of the federal antiterrorism money flowing this year to New York State, which receives about $1 for every $15 in antiterrorism funds that go elsewhere in the country. Still, Mr. Bloomberg argues, that is not enough.
 ''This is pork barrel politics at its worst,'' the mayor told the 9/11 Commission. ''It's the kind of shortsighted 'me first' nonsense that gives Washington a bad name. It also, unfortunately, has the effect of aiding and abetting those who hate us and plot against us.''
 Edward Skyler, the mayor's press secretary, said the mayor was not opposed to letting places like Wyoming receive any federal money. But he added, ''Spreading federal funds through all 50 states made perfect sense when you're talking about Medicaid, highway funds and things of that nature, but not when you talk about homeland security.''
 A better system, Mr. Skyler said, would rely almost exclusively on an analysis of threats, either from foreign or domestic terrorists. ''New York City is the economic engine for the country,'' he said. ''We deserve the lion's share of the funding.'' 
 New York City is at the top of the list of 50 urban areas that receive money specifically because they are more tempting targets for terrorists. No cities in Wyoming receive any of those funds. But Mr. Skyler said that New York City would receive only about $104 million of the amount flowing to the state this year, with the rest of the state's allocation going to other cities and to the state generally. 
 The needs of New York and Wyoming are vastly different, of course. In Wyoming, some local law enforcement agencies did not even have computers until recently, and 90 percent of the state's firefighters are volunteers. 
 Maj. Keith R. Groeneweg of the Wyoming Highway Patrol said that state troopers had no protective helmets until recently, just the standard-issue flat-brimmed hats they wear on patrol; with the grants, the department is buying helmets. Police, fire and emergency medical officials were responding to incidents like chemical spills and train derailments without any protective gear beyond their normal uniforms. 
 ''For years and years and years they've done that, but they've never had the money to buy the equipment to do it properly,'' said Kim Lee, who oversees the state's six regional response teams for the Department of Homeland Security. ''The firemen's wives have had to have bake sales just to buy fire helmets,'' he added. Chemical suits were out of the question.
 Realizing that, the state recently used its federal antiterrorism money to issue kits with chemical suits and other supplies to every one of the 2,470 police officers, emergency medical technicians and coroners in the state. Fire departments received several kits for each fire truck as well.
 Not all of the fault lies at the federal level, of course. At least some of the responsibility for the lack of preparedness lies with the states themselves, particularly those, like Wyoming, whose citizenry demonstrates a pronounced antipathy toward taxation.
 Wyoming and most other states have also been slow to spend much of the money they have received. Laramie County, Wyo., which includes Cheyenne, received $809,627 in homeland security grants in the fiscal year 2003. The county has until the end of this calendar year to use the money, but so far less than half of it has been spent, according to figures provided by John W. Kluever, the county's grants coordinator. 
 Of the money that has been used, 70 percent of it went for one item, a mobile command post for the state emergency management agency. Meanwhile, no money has yet been spent on 21 of the 30 budgeted projects.
 Some of the budgeted projects in Laramie County also appear to be directed less at terrorist threats than at everyday operations. The town of Pine Bluffs, for example, is spending $10,000 of its $26,200 grant on portable generators and an additional $4,000 on medical equipment, including catheters, blood pressure cuffs and gauze.
 But that has been the case around the country, according to a recent report by the House Select Committee on Homeland Security, led by Representative Christopher Cox of California, who has also complained that his state has not received its rightful share of antiterrorism money.
 Mr. Majerus, the Wyoming homeland security official, said he did not fault Mr. Bloomberg or others for arguing for a bigger share of the antiterrorism money. ''They simply are trying to do the best they can for their first responders,'' he said, ''just as we are.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Antiterror money got a chemical identifier set for Cheyenne's Fire Department. (Photo by Ernie Leyba for The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 Francis E. Warren Air Force Base, just off the Interstate, is home to the 90th Space Wing, which oversees an arsenal of 150 Minuteman III and 50 Peacekeeper nuclear missiles. Their locations are on the Internet. (Photo by Ernie Leyba for The New York Times)(pg. B4)Maps of Wyoming highlighting Cheyenne and the area of the missile silos: Southwestern Wyoming is a hub for transportation and missiles. (pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (93%); COUNTERTERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (89%); ARMED FORCES (83%); MILITARY BASES (83%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); BUDGETS (77%); POLICE FORCES (72%); AIR FORCES (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (68%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (68%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (65%); PSYCHOLOGY (62%) Terrorism; Military Bases and Installations; United States Armament and Defense; Agriculture; Roads and Traffic; Electric Light and Power; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Terrorism; States (US)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (68%) Edward Wyatt

GEOGRAPHIC: CHEYENNE, WY, USA (94%) WYOMING, USA (96%); NEBRASKA, USA (93%); COLORADO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) Wyoming; United States

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2004



25 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 609 words

HEADLINE: For Kerry, a Day of Remembrance and Campaigning

BYLINE: By JODI WILGOREN

DATELINE: PORTSMOUTH, Va., May 31 

 BODY:
Flying here for a Memorial Day parade, Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts acknowledged Monday that a foray into this usually Republican state was unusual for him as the presumed Democratic presidential nominee, but said he would be visiting ''lots of states'' as his campaign tries to expand the electoral battleground. 
 ''I don't care what's usual or not usual,'' Mr. Kerry said as he flew from Washington, D.C., for a parade here of high school marching bands, veterans, and red, white and blue balloons. 
 ''There's not much that's usual about this campaign,'' he added, calling 2004 ''a pretty unusual year.'' 
 Mr. Kerry spent most of the day with Mark Warner, Virginia's Democratic governor, who is considered a longshot for the vice presidential spot on the ticket and who sat behind Mr. Kerry at Saturday's dedication of the World War II memorial on the Mall in Washington. ''A happy coincidence,'' Mr. Kerry said when asked about being with Mr. Warner two of the three days of the holiday weekend. ''Se-ren-di-pi-ty.''
 Governor Warner told a local television reporter that he and Mr. Kerry had not discussed the vice presidency, but said he thought Virginia could be ''a very competitive state in this election,'' citing his own election in 2001 and the inroads Democrats made in the state legislature last year. 
 No Democratic presidential candidate has captured Virginia since 1964. President Bush won the state -- and its 13 electoral votes -- by eight percentage points in 2000, but Mr. Kerry is beginning an advertising push in the state this week.
 ''Senator Kerry's war record is very powerful,'' Mr. Warner said, noting the heavy military presence here. He added that he thought Mr. Kerry would also appeal to the high-technology corridor in the northern part of the state as well as the still-struggling southwestern region. ''Senator Kerry's message of economic revival will do very well.''
 Asked by each of three television stations here why he chose Portsmouth's parade, Mr. Kerry repeated, ''I'm a Navy man.'' 
 Early Monday morning, in Washington, under a light but steady rain, he laid a wreath of red and white roses at the Vietnam Veterans Memorial next to the name of William F. Bronson, a veteran from Gardner, Mass., who died in 1976 from injuries suffered during the war. Mr. Kerry had helped to add his name to the wall, and explained the memorial's architecture to Mr. Bronson's family as they toured the site. The senator stopped and bent low at Panel 39E to see the name of a close friend, Richard Pershing, who was killed during the Tet Offensive.
 Many visitors to the wall offered their support as they shook hands with Mr. Kerry, but as he departed the memorial, a middle-aged woman wearing a flag sweatshirt heckled him. ''Are you paying tribute to all the people you spat on, Senator Kerry?'' she asked, referring to his antiwar activities upon returning home.
 Mr. Kerry originally planned to spend Monday in Washington or in the hotly contested state of Pennsylvania, but decided in recent days to fly instead to Portsmouth, a town of 100,000 near the Navy hub of Norfolk, Va., for the state's oldest Memorial Day parade. 
 Sandwiched on the reviewing stand between Governor Warner and Mayor Jim Holley of Portsmouth, Mr. Kerry stood and placed a hand over his heart each time an American flag passed. Having arrived a half-hour late for the hour-long parade, Mr. Kerry and Mr. Warner spent 45 minutes afterward shaking hands with hundreds in the crowd.
 ''I love a parade; I'm like every American,'' Mr. Kerry said in one of the television interviews, adding, ''Everybody else gets to barbecue and I've got to go work.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator John Kerry, at the Memorial Day parade at Portsmouth, Va. Earlier, he visited the Vietnam Veterans Memorial in Washington. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PARADES & MARCHES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VETERANS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (78%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%); WORLD WAR II (70%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (70%); VIETNAM WAR (70%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (65%); ARMED FORCES (62%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (60%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); MARK WARNER (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2004



26 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 593 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

U.S. Seeks Information From Actuarial Firms
The Department of Justice has asked several big actuarial firms for information about the terms of their client agreements, in what appears to be an effort to learn whether certain provisions violate antitrust laws.
 Officials of the actuarial firms said they had received ''civil investigative demands,'' or written requests for information, from the department's antitrust division. The letters seek documents and other information related to the firms' decision, about two years ago, to ask their pension fund clients to sign clauses limiting their ability to sue the firms. [Page C2.]

Trade Talks on Subsidies Revived
Trade ministers and diplomats have revived the global trade talks that fell apart in Cancun last year, hoping to salvage a framework agreement by the end of July. [C5.]

Fiat Appoints Chief Executive
Just days after the death of Fiat's chairman raised questions on the direction of the company, it named a chief executive to replace Giuseppe Morchio, who resigned unexpectedly on Sunday. The new chief, Sergio Marchionne, headed the Swiss quality and testing services company SGS. The company also reaffirmed its commitment to its money-losing car unit and said that it would accelerate a restructuring plan. [World Business, Section W.]

Michael Moore Film Has Distributor
The independent studio Lions Gate will distribute Michael Moore's documentary ''Fahrenheit 9/11,'' which has gained widespread notice for its critique of President Bush. [C2.]

Brokerage Firm Settles Case
In the first settlement in the investigation of variable annuities trading abuses, Davenport & Company, a regional brokerage firm in Richmond, Va., has agreed to pay $738,000 in a fine and restitution. [C5.]

Report Questions Van Safety
Federal regulators released a report that raised new questions about the stability of 15-passenger vans and how they are used. [C6.]

More Information on Modified Crops
The Department of Agriculture plans to disclose more information about crops that are genetically engineered to produce pharmaceuticals, an official said. [C6.]

Manufacturing Shows Gains
Manufacturing expanded for the 12th consecutive month and construction spending rose to its highest level ever, according to data. [C11.]

A Late-Day Rally for Stocks
A change of heart gave Wall Street a late-day rally yesterday, as strong economic data overcame investors' anxiety over a surge in oil prices. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 14.20 points to close at 10,202.65. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 0.52 point, to 1,121.20, and the Nasdaq composite index increased 4.03 points, to 1,990.77. [C11.]

Nielsen Offers a Compromise
Nielsen Media Research is offering a compromise approach in response to intensifying efforts by critics to delay or derail changes in the way it measures television ratings in New York City. [Stuart Elliott: Advertising. C2.]

Bombardier Considering New Jets
Bombardier, the aircraft and rail car maker, expects to decide by early next year whether to add a family of passenger jets to compete directly with the Boeing Company and the European Airbus consortium, Paul M. Tellier, the company's chief executive, said. The proposed series would be made up of three models with a capacity of 100 to 130 passengers. [C5.]

Testimony Backs Ex-Tyco Lawyer
Tyco International's former top lawyer urged the company to cooperate with a regulatory investigation, according to testimony. [C2.]

Lawyers for John J. Rigas, the founder of Adelphia Communications, began presenting his defense in his trial. [C15.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,202.65 up 14.20Nasdaq composite -- 1,990.77 up 4.0310-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.70% up 0.04The euro -- $1.2232 up 0.0019The dollar -- 110.59 yen up 0.34Graph tracks Fiat A.D.R.'s share price for last week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (70%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (70%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (70%); GLOBALIZATION (69%); ANNUITIES (68%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (68%); AGRICULTURE (67%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (66%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (65%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (63%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (62%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (62%); CONSTRUCTION (61%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: NIELSEN MEDIA RESEARCH (80%); DAVENPORT & CO LLC (54%); BOMBARDIER INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (84%)

TICKER: BBD.A (TSX) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (80%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (50%)

PERSON: SERGIO MARCHIONNE (53%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (53%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2004



27 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Sports Briefing; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 862 words

BYLINE: AP

 BODY:

BASKETBALL
Phillips's Late Surge Leads Liberty
 Tari Phillips scored 10 of her 12 points in the final seven minutes as the Liberty held on to beat the Sting, 63-53, in Charlotte, N.C., last night in the Women's National Basketball Association. Vickie Johnson added 15 points and Shameka Christon had 11 for the Liberty (4-1), which won its fourth straight game and held on to first place in the Eastern Conference.
 Charlotte Smith-Taylor had a career-high 18 points for the Sting (2-2). Tammy Sutton-Brown added 11 points and 8 rebounds.
 The Sting cut a 13-point second-half deficit to 43-39 on a jumper by Tynesha Lewis with 7 minutes 47 seconds to play. Phillips responded with a driving basket, a turnaround jumper, a layup and two free throws after an offensive rebound in an 8-3 run. The Sting got no closer than 6 points down after that.
 Two of Charlotte's top scorers, Allison Feaster and Andrea Stinson, were held to a total of 10 points on 4-of-10 shooting. Charlotte shot 40 percent and committed 15 turnovers.
 Becky Hammon and Christon hit consecutive 3-pointers in an 8-0 run to give the Liberty a 20-10 lead with 9:52 left in the first half. Christon's third 3-pointer made it 31-20 at halftime. Phillips's runner in the lane to open the second half gave the Liberty its largest lead. 

TO RUSSIA WITH JAZZ -- The Utah Jazz will open the 2004 N.B.A. preseason in Russia, facing the former team of their All-Star forward Andrei Kirilenko. Utah will be the first N.B.A. team to play in Russia since the Atlanta Hawks toured the Soviet Union in 1988. The Jazz will play the CSKA team on Oct. 8 in Moscow in one of three international games for N.B.A. teams in the preseason. The Houston Rockets and their Chinese center Yao Ming will play in Shanghai, and the Sacramento Kings visit Beijing later in October.

RAPTORS WON'T HIRE ERVING -- Julius Erving is no longer a candidate to be general manager of the Toronto Raptors, who are seeking a replacement since firing Glen Grunwald on April 1. Erving was an executive vice president with Orlando for six seasons before leaving the Magic last summer. The Raptors star Vince Carter had backed Erving, and Erving was interested. But Jack McCloskey, the interim general manager, said yesterday, ''He's not in the mix.''

NEVADA HIRES FOX -- Mark Fox was hired as Nevada's coach after working four years as an assistant under Trent Johnson. Johnson, who led Nevada to a 25-9 season and its first appearance in the N.C.A.A. tournament's Round of 16, resigned a week ago to coach Stanford. Fox, who was Johnson's choice to succeed him, has been a Division I assistant for 11 years, at Nevada, Kansas State and Washington.

OLYMPICS
Plenty of Good Seats Available
 More than half the tickets for the Athens Olympics remains unsold, with corporate sponsors buying far fewer seats than four years ago, organizers said yesterday. 
 The figures seemed to reinforce some of the worst fears for the Summer Games, from Aug. 13 to 29: that security worries and a shaky global economic recovery will leave unfilled stadiums and arenas for all but the top events. But organizers staked faith in last-minute planning and noted that their revenue goal was within reach even with slow sales.
 A total of 5.3 million tickets were set aside for Athens -- 3 million to the public and 2.3 million for International Olympic Committee officials, sponsors and others. But only 1.83 million tickets have been sold. 
 Officials would not give a breakdown of how many were for the public and how many for the Olympic committee. The revenue picture is brighter. Organizers said their goal was to make $223 million from tickets, which have been sold in various periods since May 12, 2003. 
 About $167 million has been made. So far the most popular sports event is sailing, on Aug. 19, with 99 percent of tickets sold. 

WOMEN'S SHOT-PUT CHAMPION BARRED FOR LIFE -- The world indoor women's shot-put champion, Vita Pavlysh, has been barred for life after testing positive for the anabolic steroid stanozolol for a second time, an official from Ukraine said yesterday.
 Pavlysh, 35, failed the drug test at this year's world indoor championships in Budapest after easily winning her event.
 ''We have decided to ban her for life because it was her second offense,'' said a spokesman for the Ukrainian Athletic Federation. ''Enough is enough.''
 Pavlysh served a two-year ban in 2001 after testing positive for stanozolol at the 1999 world indoor championships in Maebashi, Japan, where she also finished first. 
 She also won the world indoor title in 1997 in Paris and was twice a European champion. (Reuters)

COLLEGE FOOTBALL
Notre Dame to Open With B.Y.U.
 Notre Dame has the schedule it wants for 2004, although it took months of wrangling to get it. Instead of opening the season Sept. 11 against Michigan, the Fighting Irish will start the season a week earlier at Brigham Young. 
 Notre Dame is coming off a 5-7 season and was beaten, 38-0, by Michigan last season. The Irish did not want to play their opener against a Michigan squad that had started the season a week earlier, against Miami of Ohio. The Irish had been scheduled to play at Brigham Young on Oct. 30.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (92%); EXECUTIVES (60%) Basketball

ORGANIZATION: CHARLOTTE STING (59%); NEW YORK LIBERTY (59%); WOMEN'S NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (58%) New York Liberty; Charlotte Sting

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (73%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (67%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (67%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (66%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (54%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (53%); BEIJING, CHINA (52%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (52%) NEVADA, USA (84%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (73%); ONTARIO, CANADA (71%); EAST CHINA (67%); CALIFORNIA, USA (67%); FLORIDA, USA (66%); GEORGIA, USA (53%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (86%); UNITED STATES (84%); CHINA (72%); CANADA (71%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2004



28 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1606 words

HEADLINE: Where Butterflies Rest, Damage Runs Rampant

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON

DATELINE: SAN LUIS, Mexico 

 BODY:
The illegal loggers smeared mud on their faces to hide their identities. Then they smashed a camera they feared would expose their pillaging.
 The evidence, however, was everywhere. Two trucks rumbled down the mountain with illegally cut wood. The mud-smeared loggers had fresh blood under their fingernails from loading. In a federally protected forest that is a winter haven for the monarch butterfly, the landscape was as barren as the moon.
 This is Mexico's most famous national park, a 10,000-year-old evergreen forest set aside by presidential decree and supported by millions of dollars in international aid for colonies of orange and gold butterflies that migrate annually from the United States and Canada, in clouds that look like fire in the sky. 
 But when the butterflies leave each spring, and the hundreds of thousands of tourists go home, this reserve stretching west from the suburbs of Mexico City to the mountains of Michoacan becomes a symbol of the rapid destruction of all the nation's forests, and is overtaken by organized crime and mob justice. Heavily armed mafias chop down the trees at an alarming rate -- about 70 mature trees each day, or a small forest a week, Mexican authorities say.
 The mobs ambush the police and terrorize village leaders who threaten to stop them. Left alone to defend their property, some beleaguered villages take the law into their own hands to fight back against the loggers, often using the same violent tactics. Most villages surrender and sell their trees.
 The illegal logging, peasant leaders say, is driven by a surging demand for wood; by the crushing poverty of the Indians who live in communal cooperatives, called ''ejidos''; and by the lingering resentment over the government's decision 18 years ago to turn the precious forests into a reserve for insects that their people refer to as ''worms.''
 Indeed, the mud-smeared men of San Luis spoke with contempt for a society they say cares more about the butterflies than about their families. This land belongs to them, they said, and they would not surrender their rights to a presidential decree, much less forsake the needs of their children for bugs.
 ''Everyone worries about the butterflies,'' said one illegal logger, the brim of his baseball cap pulled to his nose to hide his face. ''What about us?''
 Then the loggers lashed out against a group of journalists. They smashed a photographer's camera, punched a radio reporter in the face, and threatened to hold the group hostage, accusing the journalists of being government spies.
 The smell of alcohol made their voices more menacing.
 ''We are not going to hurt you,'' they said. ''We are thieves, not savages.''
 The police and government environmental inspectors have also been attacked, and rarely venture into villages like San Luis, unless they do so en masse and in military style. Officers and inspectors have been detained for hours by criminal mobs that set their vehicles on fire. The loggers have staged roadblocks to take back trucks of wood that had been confiscated by the police; and stormed jails to free their leaders.
 Inundated by pleas from communities like this one and by calls of outrage by international environmental organizations, including the World Wildlife Fund, President Vicente Fox sent the army into the forest in May to restore order.
 ''We are at war,'' said Gabriel Mendoza Jimenez, deputy secretary of public security for the state of Michoacan. ''This is not only a problem of cops and robbers. This is a fight for civil order over impunity.''
 Victor Lichtinger, a former minister of the environment, said that in much of the world including most of Mexico, deforestation remains a largely quiet phenomenon, spreading almost a tree at a time, and driven by the poverty of rural farmers who cut down small plots of the forest to make way for subsistence crops. But Mexico's forests, he added, are also the strongholds of drug traffickers and armed rebels. They are seething with tensions from unresolved land disputes that go back generations. They are far removed from the reaches of the law.
 From the day the government established the Monarch Butterfly Biosphere Reserve, peasants here have lived at odds with the government, and the deforestation turned fast and turbulent.
 Mexico had given this land to peasants from the spoils of the revolution. With the creation of the reserve in 1986, the peasants accused the government of taking their land away.
 The people of San Cristobal, at the southern edge of the butterfly reserve, burned down their trees, rather than cede control to the government. Fourteen years later, the Mexican government expanded the reserve to more than 132,000 acres from 45,000 acres, offering peasants who live in extreme poverty few economic incentives to save their trees. The tensions, and deforestation, spread.
 Now, as the demand for wood grows in factories, construction companies and fruit packing plants, middlemen have moved into the forests offering good money for timber -- about five times the average daily wage for a 60-year-old pine -- and peasants have decided to do business.
 ''What was once a problem of poverty and a necessity to survive has turned into a crime of greed,'' Mr. Lichtinger said, speaking of the logging in the butterfly reserve. ''There is no way to get the mafias to submit to the law.''
 Governor Lazaro Cardenas Batel said, ''If we tell people they cannot exploit their forests, and walk away, then we condemn them to dying of hunger, or we force them to become involved in illegal logging.''
 The governor said the growing tensions in the butterfly reserve were one result of a three-year-old crackdown against industries around the area that buy illegal wood. Some 100 sawmills had been closed or fined, he said, and 159 people had been arrested, most of them poor workers.
 But in a state with four million people, fewer than 9,000 police officers and a flourishing illegal marijuana trade, the governor acknowledged he could only crack down so hard. He said he was reluctant to send officers chasing illegal loggers in the forests because he worried about ''confrontations with peasants that get out of control.''
 He said he supported President Fox's decision to send the military.
 Mr. Mendoza, the public security official, agreed. ''I could send officers into the forests and lose three of them a day,'' he said, ''but I am not willing to make that sacrifice.''
 Federal environmental authorities are also strapped for money and manpower. Unlike the United States, where nearly 2,000 permanent and seasonal armed rangers patrol 387 national parks, Mexico's protected areas are hardly protected at all, with fewer than 400 roving, unarmed inspectors assigned to watch over 150 natural reserves.
 Diana Ponce, a deputy prosecutor for Profepa, the agency charged with protecting Mexico's natural resources, said peasants are ravaging forests from Chihuahua to Chiapas. She estimated that the country loses about 1.3 million acres of forests each year, the fifth worst deforestation rate in the world.
 Some 70,000 acres are cut down each year from the Lacandon rain forest, home of the Zapatista National Liberation Army and the hemisphere's most biologically diverse jungle after the Amazon. Environmentalists predict it could disappear within the next two decades.
 The old-growth pine forests in the northern Sierra Tarahumara and its rich diversity of wildlife face threats from drug traffickers who burn down the trees up to 200 years old to plant marijuana. Villagers who stand against the traffickers have been killed. Two peasant leaders, Isidro Baldenegro Lopez and Hermenegildo Rivas Carillo, were arrested last year without warrants. Amnesty International considers them prisoners of conscience, comparing their arrests to the government's abuses against the forest crusaders Rodolfo Montiel and Teodoro Cabrera of the state of Guerrero.
 But no forest's plight draws more attention these days than the monarch butterfly reserve.
 Homero Aridjis, a poet, author and leading Mexican environmentalist, said: ''The federal government has no control. The state government has no control. The forest has become a no man's land.''
 The World Wildlife Fund reported two years ago that some 40 percent of the butterfly reserve had been destroyed from 1971 to 1999. Last month, the organization reported that more than 500 hectares have been lost in the last three years. Aerial photographs, the group said, showed that the villages of Francisco Serrato and Emiliano Zapata had lost all of their forests.
 ''I have climbed the mountains to ask my people why they are cutting the forests,'' said Alejo Claudio Cayetano, an Indian leader in the ejido, or community, of Cresencio Morales. ''They tell me that if they do not cut them, others will, and then they will have nothing.''
 People in the ejido of El Paso fight hard to hold on to their forest. The camp of plastic tents beneath their towering pine and Oyamel firs is their battle station, manned by grandmothers and sons, who leave their homes five days a week to help guard the trees.
 Last year, the leader of the ejido, Armando Sanchez Martinez, discovered a truck loaded with wood that had been illegally cut from their forest. He set it on fire.
 Then a couple of months ago, after gunmen fired on his truck, Mr. Sanchez bought a handful of rifles and handguns and recruited the other ejido residents to serve on civilian patrols. Their support, he said, was unanimous.
 ''The illegal loggers wanted to shoot one of us to frighten us and take our forest,'' he said. ''Now they are going to have to shoot us all.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Gerardo Fernandez, left, and Oscar Fernandez, police officers in the state of Michoacan, guarding logs late last month as federal environmental inspectors checked to make sure the wood had been legally harvested. (Photo by Luis J. Jimenez for The New York Times)
 Colonies of monarch butterflies are found during the winter in Mexican Oyamel firs, which are threatened by continued deforestation. (Photo by European Pressphoto Agency)Map of Mexico highlighting the Monarch Butterfly Biosphere Reserve: The establishment of the monarch reserve stirred local resentment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORESTS & WOODLANDS (91%); ILLEGAL LOGGING (90%); FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (90%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (90%); ORGANIZED CRIME (90%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (90%); NATIONAL PARKS (90%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (71%); FAMILY (68%); WRITERS (63%); ESPIONAGE (60%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (55%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%) Forests and Forestry; Logging Industry; Butterflies and Moths; Wildlife Sanctuaries; Forests and Forestry

PERSON: VICENTE FOX QUESADA (70%) Vicente (Pres) Fox Quesada; Ginger Thompson

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%) MEXICO (96%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Mexico; Michoacan (Mexico); San Luis (Mex); Monarch Butterfly Biosphere Reserve (Mex)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2004



29 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1185 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Begins Transfer of a Shaky Haiti to U.N. Hands

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER

DATELINE: PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti, June 1 

 BODY:
United States commanders began turning over this anarchic, flood-ravaged, starving nation 500 miles from Florida to a handful of United Nations troops on Tuesday.
 The 3,600-member American-led military force brought a measure of stability to Haiti after the first Marines landed Feb. 29, the day President Jean-Bertrand Aristide was forced from power under rebel attack and American pressure.
 Despite its best efforts during the past three months, it leaves behind a mess. The United Nations mission is to help make Haiti a functioning democracy capable of holding national elections sometime next year. That task may take longer than the mission's six-month mandate. 
 The rebels first rose up against President Aristide in February, and they still hold much of the countryside. Since their rebellion began, Haiti has been hit by disasters both natural and man-made.
 In March, political chaos led to looting and burning in the capital, destroying government offices, hospital clinics and warehouses holding food for the hungry in the poorest nation in the Western world. In April, a transitional government installed with American backing proved unable to provide most basic public services, surviving on a lifeline of foreign money and military force.
 Then came the torrential rains that killed thousands and left tens of thousands homeless a week ago.
 The United Nations force, now a few hundred soldiers but intended to become 8,000 strong, confronts the immediate crisis of the flood. The toll is more than 2,600 dead and missing in Haiti, 700 dead and missing over the border in the Dominican Republic. The missing are presumed dead. 
 Some 75,000 people affected by the flood will need help to get through the rainy season, which officially started Tuesday.
 International aid agencies will bear the brunt of that task. They say they initially underestimated the scale of the disaster and are scrambling for food, money and transportation to flood-struck villages, where roads have been eradicated.
 American helicopters carrying tons of food to 15,000 survivors ceased flying Monday, a week after the floods struck.
 ''The U.N. peacekeeping mission doesn't have helicopters right now, and it will take weeks for them to deploy some,'' said Inigo Alvarez, a spokesman for the United Nations World Food Program, which was already feeding half a million Haitians before the flood. ''Without them, we have a big problem to solve. The helicopters were essential.''
 Guy Gauvreau, the food program's director in Haiti, added, ''We deeply deplore that the multinational force has other priorities.''
 The aid workers are talking about using mules to ferry aid to thousands of victims. Given the state of Haiti's interim government, the agencies say they may have to rent bulldozers and rebuild the ruined roads themselves.
 All the while, Haitian politics continues, a discourse often carried out at gunpoint. 
 The interim Haitian government is outgunned by rebel forces, who control many Haitian towns and villages. The rebels include former soldiers of the Haitian military, a force corrupted by Colombian cocaine kingpins and charged with political killings. In 1991, the military helped overthrow Mr. Aristide, Haiti's first -- and only -- democratically elected leader.
 These rebels are calling for the resurrection of the Haitian Army, disbanded by Mr. Aristide in 1995. 
 American commanders say the last thing Haiti needs is the return of its military, long an instrument of political terror. Armed Aristide loyalists remain a force in Port-au-Prince, though Mr. Aristide is in exile in South Africa, and unlikely to be allowed to return anytime soon. 
 Only a handful of the soldiers for the force cobbled together by the United Nations are now in Haiti. They have no headquarters and little money.
 Some troops from Canada, France and Chile, nations now in the American-led force, will remain in Haiti. A handful of Americans here might stay past June 30, the deadline for their withdrawal.
 The Americans may return. Gen. James T. Hill, chief of the United States Southern Command, is talking privately about rotating American forces through Haiti in military exercises later this year, a senior Western diplomat said Tuesday.
 Brig. Gen. Ronald S. Coleman of the United States Marines handed over the international military presence to Gen. Augusto Heleno Ribeiro Pereira, of the Brazilian Army, at a ceremony held Tuesday morning at the National Police Academy here. He will lead the United Nations force. 
 ''The stakes are high,'' Kofi Annan, the United Nations secretary general, said in a message read at the ceremony on Tuesday. ''This time, let us get it right.''
 The event at the academy was largely protocol. Actual command authority will be vested in the United Nations force on June 20. Some 1,200 Brazilian troops, 150 from Paraguay, 150 from Uruguay and 350 from Argentina should be on the ground in Haiti by June 30.
 The United Nations has mandated 6,700 troops and 1,622 police officers from 30 countries. The mission may never reach that force; less than half that number have signed on.
 The American-led disarmament effort rounded up fewer than 200 weapons. The new force has a mandate for disarmament, a task Haiti's interim government lacks the power to undertake. ''Disarmament is very important,'' General Pereira said. ''However, spiritual disarmament is even more important than physical disarmament.''
 The United Nations troops, who are here as peacekeepers, are unlikely to try to disarm gunmen by force.
 Though American troops are leaving, American foreign policy stays the same. 
 It seeks to stop the flow of refugees to Florida. It wants to fight cocaine traffickers' power to corrupt Haitian officials who help ship their drugs to the United States. It will assist Haiti's interim government as it tries to find its way to elections in 2005.
 The interim government was appointed in the chaotic days following the fall of Mr. Aristide, with armed rebels looting the capital and pro-Aristide militias shooting at the newly landed marines. It remains unrecognized by Caricom, the 15-member community of Caribbean nations.
 Many Haitians see the interim government as hand-picked or heavily influenced by the United States, which escorted Mr. Aristide out of Haiti on an American plane. In the slums of Port-au-Prince, where Mr. Aristide's rise from priest to president began, many still see him as Haiti's true leader. 
 Leslie F. Manigat, who served as Haiti's president in 1991 and now leads a new political party, the National Democratic Progressive Coalition, said the desperate problems of the past three months will resound long after the six-month mandate of the new United Nations force.
 ''These latest events are going to affect this country on the economic and the political level for a very long time,'' he said. ''There have been mistakes, lots of mistakes since Aristide left, starting with the way in which he left, and the way things have been handled since then.''
 ''I am not a pessimist by nature,'' the former president said. ''But I have gnawing doubts about the future.''


CORRECTION-DATE: July 26, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article on June 2 about the transfer of the international military presence in Haiti from an American-led force to United Nations peacekeepers misstated the tenure of a former president, Leslie F. Manigat, who said the desperate problems of the previous three months would long resound in Haiti. He held office in 1988, not 1991. A reader's e-mail last month about the error went astray at The Times.


GRAPHIC: Photos: At top, Gen. Augusto Heleno Ribeiro Pereira, of Brazil, with Boniface Alexandre, Haiti's interim president, at a ceremony yesterday marking the transfer of power to the United Nations. Above, Cpl. Luis Fuentes of Chile. (Photo by Thony Belizaire/Agence France-Presse--Getty Images)
 (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (92%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); STARVATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (89%); FOOD CHARITIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); DISASTER RELIEF (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); HELICOPTERS (85%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (78%); FLOODS & FLOODING (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); WEATHER (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (73%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Elections; Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); FOOD FOR THE HUNGRY (55%) United Nations

PERSON: Tim Weiner

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); BRAZIL (79%) Haiti

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2004



30 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR: POLITICS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1456 words

HEADLINE: NEW GOVERNMENT IS FORMED IN IRAQ AS ATTACKS GO ON

BYLINE: By DEXTER FILKINS

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, June 1 

 BODY:
With bombs and mortar shells exploding outside, a new Iraqi government stepped forward Tuesday to guide the country toward democratic elections, less than a month from the day the United States will formally restore sovereignty to this restive land.
 Led by a new prime minister, Iyad Allawi, a diverse cabinet of 33 Iraqis accepted their appointments in a ceremony marked by extraordinary security, a somber tone and measured promises of better days.
 The formation of the new government ended weeks of bruising negotiations that prompted complaints of American heavy-handedness and a last-minute deadlock over the choice of a president. The impasse was broken Tuesday morning, when Adnan Pachachi, a former foreign minister, said he was turning down the job.
 Mr. Pachachi, who did not attend the ceremony, said the notion that he was the favorite candidate of the Americans appeared to have wrecked his credibility with the Iraqi people. ''I want to say I was never the occupation's candidate,'' he said. 
 Mr. Pachachi's withdrawal cleared the way for Sheik Ghazi al-Yawar, a Sunni tribal leader who had been backed by the members of the Iraqi Governing Council.
 After agreeing on giving him the presidency, the Governing Council, set up by the Americans last summer, dissolved itself, removing the Americans' only current Iraqi partner in governing the country. Members of the new government, only a handful of whom served on the council, said they would start moving into their offices as early as Wednesday.
 The government, made up of professionals and former guerrillas and political prisoners, emerged from a United Nations-led process intended to give it enough credibility to guide Iraq through the rough days expected before elections in January.
 The new leaders seemed to make it their first order of business to prepare their people for the likelihood of a continued large-scale presence of American troops. Under a revised United Nations Security Council resolution presented Tuesday, an American-led force would remain in Iraq until ''the political process'' was complete, in late 2005 or early 2006. [Page A9.]
 The American troops are an unpleasant necessity, the Iraqis said into the television cameras, to hold the country together in the face of a guerrilla insurgency and terror attacks.
 ''Like any country, we don't want to continue to be under occupation,'' said Mr. Allawi, who spent much of the last decade trying to topple Saddam Hussein with the help of the Central Intelligence Agency. ''But at the same time, we need the support of the multinational forces to defeat the enemies of Iraq.''
 The formation of the government was largely the task of Lakhdar Brahimi, the United Nations envoy invited by the Bush administration and Iraqi leaders to bestow greater legitimacy on what had been a mostly American enterprise. Mr. Brahimi, looking rumpled and drawn after weeks of diplomacy, said he had scoured the far reaches of Iraq to find people who might adequately reflect its vast diversity.
 Even then, he said, he probably fell short.
 ''I don't believe that the rich resources of this country, that the knowledge and experience of its people, could possibly be represented in a government of just 33 people,'' Mr. Brahimi said.
 He tried to address concerns that he had knuckled under to American pressure and appointed a group not much different from the one that preceded it. While three of the five top jobs in the new government went to members of the American-picked Governing Council, much of the rest of the cabinet is made up of relatively little-known Iraqis of widely varying background and experience.
 The cabinet includes Sunnis, Shiites, Kurds and Christians; Iraqis who fled Mr. Hussein's government; and those who were tortured in its prisons. Six of its members are women, and 16 of them were educated in either the United States or Britain.
 Mr. Brahimi, along with American and Iraqi leaders, agreed to the formation of a quasi-national assembly comprising 100 Iraqis. Under the plan, the National Council, as it is called, will be chosen at a gathering of at least 1,000 Iraqis, after what is described as ''a genuine national dialogue'' in July. The National Council would be empowered to veto -- by a two-thirds majority vote -- laws approved by the interim government.
 Some Iraqi leaders suggested that the National Council could be used to bring into the mainstream some Iraqis, like the radical Shiite cleric Moktada al-Sadr, who have turned to violence.
 In the same way, the ceremony that unfolded Tuesday afternoon inside a grandiose building once known as the Saddam Clock Tower reflected a larger goal, expressed by Iraqi leaders and the Bush administration, to begin to stem the violence by giving Iraqis a stake in the governing of their country.
 ''When the Iraqi people start realizing that we are really getting sovereignty, then the anger will calm down,'' said Hajim al-Hassani, the minister for industry and minerals.
 Many of the new Iraqi leaders, including the president, Sheik Yawar, said they would insist that Iraqis be given ''full sovereignty,'' meaning that the government could do more or less whatever it wanted. And they said talks would begin immediately on the influence over American combat operations.
 But in more subdued moments, some Iraqi leaders said they realized that the presence of more than 100,000 foreign troops would make that goal difficult to achieve.
 Mowaffak al-Rubaie, the national security adviser, said he expected that Iraqi leaders would be given at least an advisory role in most major American military decisions, including the conduct of individual operations. Yet at the same time, he said the armed forces of his own government would probably fall under at least limited American command.
 ''Iraqi security forces will be part and parcel of the command structure,'' Mr. Rubaie said. ''But on all military decisions, we will be consulted.''
 As if to underscore the continuing problems of security, a wave of violence swept near the place where the ceremony was held, despite American efforts to keep its time and place secret. A car bomb exploded just outside the Green Zone headquarters of the occupation administration, killing at least three people and wounding dozens.
 The blasts from five mortar shells could be heard as well, one of them landing so close to the American-controlled convention center that it shook the walls and sent a white mushroom cloud spiraling upward. No one was hurt in that attack.
 The ceremony was marked by a number of oddities that distinguished it from similar events in the past. It was a mostly Iraqi affair, conducted entirely in Arabic, with only an occasional nod to the Americans. No Iraqi flag was visible in the room, perhaps because of confusion over which one to use: the old one, tainted by the government of Mr. Hussein, or the recently designed new one, which has proved to be unpopular.
 With so many Iraqis and Americans killed in the last 14 months, and with even the basic elements of peace and stability missing in everyday life, the speakers who took to the podium made few sweeping promises.
 But there were hints of battles to come. As he stood to accept his job as deputy president, Rowsch Shaways, a Kurdish leader, reminded the audience of the necessity of heeding the country's interim constitution, which was hammered out after painstaking negotiations this year.
 Among the document's elements are its protections for the Kurds, including a provision that would allow the three mostly Kurdish provinces to invalidate the permanent constitution when it is put to a vote, probably next year. The provision was included in the constitution as a reassurance to the Kurds that their hard-won autonomy would not be taken away from them.
 Many of Iraq's Shiite leaders, who represent the country's largest group, have vowed to amend the interim constitution to take that provision out. Mr. Shaways seemed to be reminding other Iraqi leaders just how much the Kurdish people valued their rights to self-rule.
 ''This constitution will preserve national unity and Arab-Kurdish brotherhood,'' he said.
 One of the most noticeable aspects of the day's events was the low profile of L. Paul Bremer III, the chief American administrator here, who had been active behind the scenes in choosing the new government. Mr. Bremer sat quietly during the ceremony, next to Mr. Brahimi, and was mentioned only occasionally.
 In this and in other ways, the event seemed more Iraqi than American. And that, according to some of the Iraqis here, was a picture of what to expect after June 30.
 ''Paul Bremer and his team are going to leave Iraq,'' Mr. Rubaie said, ''and we are going to give him a farewell party.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: In Baghdad yesterday after the announcement of the new Iraqi government were, from left in the front row, Prime Minister Iyad Allawi
Lakhdar Brahimi, the United Nations envoy
and President Ghazi al-Yawar. (Photo by Shawn Baldwin for The New York Times)(pg. A1)
 The newly appointed president of Iraq, Sheik Ghazi Ajil al-Yawar, spoke yesterday standing in front of the new cabinet at the announcement of its formation in Baghdad. The event was a mostly Iraqi affair. (Photo by Shawn Baldwin for The New York Times)(pg. A8)Chart/Photos: ''Checks and Balances''The interim Iraqi government, which is to hold office until January, has limited powers. It must abide by the Transitional Administrative Law and cannot make amendments to it. It will have the power to make international agreements, but it will not be able to make agreements that will permanently affect the future.PresidencyMostly ceremonial functions.Must unanimously approve orders issued by the Council of Ministers before they can become law.PRESIDENT: Ghazi Ajil al-YawarDEPUTY PRESIDENT: Ibrahim JafariDEPUTY PRESIDENT: Rowsch ShawaysPrime Minister and Council of MinistersDay-to-day governing. Responsible for improving security, promoting economic development and preparing for elections.May issue orders or decrees with the force of law.PRIME MINISTER: Iyad AllawiDEPUTY PRIME MINISTER: Barham Salih5 MINISTERS OF STATE26 MINISTRIESNational CouncilWill hear views of citizens. Advise and question policy. Appoint replacements to the presidency. Approve 2005 budget.Can veto orders or decrees with a two-thirds vote of the council.100 MEMBERSTo be selected in July in a conference of at least 1,000 Iraqis.(Source by Coalition Provisional Authority)(pg. A8)Chart: ''The Leaders''Named yesterday to lead Iraq from June 30 until no later than January when a new transitional government is to be elected.President: Ghazi Ajil al-YawarSINCE SEPTEMBER, SERVED IN THIS POSITION:GOVERNING COUNCIL: YesOTHER CABINET-LEVEL POSITION: --WOMEN: --BACKGROUND*: SunniDeputy president: Ibrahim JafariSINCE SEPTEMBER, SERVED IN THIS POSITION:GOVERNING COUNCIL: YesOTHER CABINET-LEVEL POSITION: --WOMEN: --BACKGROUND*: ShiiteDeputy president: Rowsch ShawaysSINCE SEPTEMBER, SERVED IN THIS POSITION:GOVERNING COUNCIL: --OTHER CABINET-LEVEL POSITION: --WOMEN: --BACKGROUND*: KurdPrime minister: Iyad AllawiSINCE SEPTEMBER, SERVED IN THIS POSITION:GOVERNING COUNCIL: YesOTHER CABINET-LEVEL POSITION: --WOMEN: --BACKGROUND*: ShiiteDeputy prime minister: Barham SalihSINCE SEPTEMBER, SERVED IN THIS POSITION:GOVERNING COUNCIL: --OTHER CABINET-LEVEL POSITION: --WOMEN: --BACKGROUND*: KurdMinister of state for provinces: Wael Abdul LatifSINCE SEPTEMBER, SERVED IN THIS POSITION:GOVERNING COUNCIL: YesOTHER CABINET-LEVEL POSITION: --WOMEN: --BACKGROUND*: ShiiteMinister of state for women: Narmin OthmanSINCE SEPTEMBER, SERVED IN THIS POSITION:GOVERNING COUNCIL: --OTHER CABINET-LEVEL POSITION: --WOMEN: YesBACKGROUND*: KurdMinister of state: Adnan al-JanabiSINCE SEPTEMBER, SERVED IN THIS POSITION:GOVERNING COUNCIL: --OTHER CABINET-LEVEL POSITION: --WOMEN: --BACKGROUND*: --Minister of state: Kasim DaoudSINCE SEPTEMBER, SERVED IN THIS POSITION:GOVERNING COUNCIL: --OTHER CABINET-LEVEL POSITION: --WOMEN: --BACKGROUND*: --Minister of state: Mahmoud OthmanSINCE SEPTEMBER, SERVED IN THIS POSITION:GOVERNING COUNCIL: YesOTHER CABINET-LEVEL POSITION: --WOMEN: --BACKGROUND*: KurdMinisters of . . .Agriculture: Sawsan al-SharifiSINCE SEPTEMBER, SERVED IN THIS POSITION:GOVERNING COUNCIL: --OTHER CABINET-LEVEL POSITION: --WOMEN: YesBACKGROUND*: --Communications: Mohammad al-HakimSINCE SEPTEMBER, SERVED IN THIS POSITION:GOVERNING COUNCIL: --OTHER CABINET-LEVEL POSITION: --WOMEN: --BACKGROUND*: --Culture: Mufeed al-JazairiSINCE SEPTEMBER, SERVED IN THIS POSITION:GOVERNING COUNCIL: --OTHER CABINET-LEVEL POSITION: YesWOMEN: --BACKGROUND*: ShiiteDefense: Hazim al-ShalaanSINCE SEPTEMBER, SERVED IN THIS POSITION:GOVERNING COUNCIL: --OTHER CABINET-LEVEL POSITION: --WOMEN: --BACKGROUND*: --Displacement and Migration: Pascale WardaSINCE SEPTEMBER, SERVED IN THIS POSITION:GOVERNING COUNCIL: --OTHER CABINET-LEVEL POSITION: --WOMEN: YesBACKGROUND*: AssyrianEducation: Sami al-MudhaffarSINCE SEPTEMBER, SERVED IN THIS POSITION:GOVERNING COUNCIL: --OTHER CABINET-LEVEL POSITION: --WOMEN: --BACKGROUND*: --Electricity: Ayham al-SamaraieSINCE SEPTEMBER, SERVED IN THIS POSITION:GOVERNING COUNCIL: --OTHER CABINET-LEVEL POSITION: YesWOMEN: --BACKGROUND*: SunniEnvironment: Mishkat MouminSINCE SEPTEMBER, SERVED IN THIS POSITION:GOVERNING COUNCIL: --OTHER CABINET-LEVEL POSITION: --WOMEN: YesBACKGROUND*: --Finance: Adel Abdul MahdiSINCE SEPTEMBER, SERVED IN THIS POSITION:GOVERNING COUNCIL: --OTHER CABINET-LEVEL POSITION: --WOMEN: --BACKGROUND*: --Foreign Affairs: Hoshyar ZebariSINCE SEPTEMBER, SERVED IN THIS POSITION:GOVERNING COUNCIL: --OTHER CABINET-LEVEL POSITION: YesWOMEN: --BACKGROUND*: KurdHealth: Alaudin al-AlwanSINCE SEPTEMBER, SERVED IN THIS POSITION:GOVERNING COUNCIL: --OTHER CABINET-LEVEL POSITION: YesWOMEN: --BACKGROUND*: ShiiteHigher Education: Taher al-BakaaSINCE SEPTEMBER, SERVED IN THIS POSITION:GOVERNING COUNCIL: --OTHER CABINET-LEVEL POSITION: --WOMEN: --BACKGROUND*: --Housing and Construction: Omar al-DamlujiSINCE SEPTEMBER, SERVED IN THIS POSITION:GOVERNING COUNCIL: --OTHER CABINET-LEVEL POSITION: --WOMEN: --BACKGROUND*: --Human Rights: Bakhtiar AminSINCE SEPTEMBER, SERVED IN THIS POSITION:GOVERNING COUNCIL: --OTHER CABINET-LEVEL POSITION: --WOMEN: --BACKGROUND*: KurdIndustry and Minerals: Hajim al-HassaniSINCE SEPTEMBER, SERVED IN THIS POSITION:GOVERNING COUNCIL: --OTHER CABINET-LEVEL POSITION: --WOMEN: --BACKGROUND*: SunniInterior: Falah al-NaqibSINCE SEPTEMBER, SERVED IN THIS POSITION:GOVERNING COUNCIL: --OTHER CABINET-LEVEL POSITION: --WOMEN: --BACKGROUND*: --Justice: Malik al-HassanSINCE SEPTEMBER, SERVED IN THIS POSITION:GOVERNING COUNCIL: --OTHER CABINET-LEVEL POSITION: --WOMEN: --BACKGROUND*: --Labor and Social Affairs: Leyla Abdul LatifSINCE SEPTEMBER, SERVED IN THIS POSITION:GOVERNING COUNCIL: --OTHER CABINET-LEVEL POSITION: --WOMEN: YesBACKGROUND*: --Public Works: Nesreen BerwariSINCE SEPTEMBER, SERVED IN THIS POSITION:GOVERNING COUNCIL: --OTHER CABINET-LEVEL POSITION: YesWOMEN: YesBACKGROUND*: KurdOil: Thamir GhadbanSINCE SEPTEMBER, SERVED IN THIS POSITION:GOVERNING COUNCIL: --OTHER CABINET-LEVEL POSITION: --WOMEN: --BACKGROUND*: --Planning: Mahdi al-HafidhSINCE SEPTEMBER, SERVED IN THIS POSITION:GOVERNING COUNCIL: --OTHER CABINET-LEVEL POSITION: YesWOMEN: --BACKGROUND*: ShiiteScience and Technology: Rashad Mandan OmarSINCE SEPTEMBER, SERVED IN THIS POSITION:GOVERNING COUNCIL: --OTHER CABINET-LEVEL POSITION: YesWOMEN: --BACKGROUND*: TurkmenTrade: Mohammed al-JibouriSINCE SEPTEMBER, SERVED IN THIS POSITION:GOVERNING COUNCIL: --OTHER CABINET-LEVEL POSITION: --WOMEN: --BACKGROUND*: --Transportation: Louay al-ErrisSINCE SEPTEMBER, SERVED IN THIS POSITION:GOVERNING COUNCIL: --OTHER CABINET-LEVEL POSITION: --WOMEN: --BACKGROUND*: --Water Resources: Abdul Latif RashidSINCE SEPTEMBER, SERVED IN THIS POSITION:GOVERNING COUNCIL: --OTHER CABINET-LEVEL POSITION: --WOMEN: --BACKGROUND*: KurdYouth and Sport: Ali Faik al-GhadbanSINCE SEPTEMBER, SERVED IN THIS POSITION:GOVERNING COUNCIL: --OTHER CABINET-LEVEL POSITION: YesWOMEN: --BACKGROUND*: Shiite*For those for which information was available.(Source by Coalition Provisional Authority)(pg. A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (92%); ELECTIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (74%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); TERRORISM (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (71%) Politics and Government; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Appointments and Executive Changes; Law and Legislation; Elections

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%) United Nations

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) Ghazi Al- (Sheik) Yawar; Adnan Pachachi; Lakhdar Brahimi; Dexter Filkins

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (97%) Iraq; Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2004



31 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 6; Sports Desk; FOOTBALL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 649 words

HEADLINE: It's Cut To Chase For Future Of Warner

BYLINE: By LYNN ZINSER and DAMON HACK

 BODY:
The N.F.L.'s salary-cap casualty period began quietly yesterday with Rams quarterback Kurt Warner, as expected, among the first to hit the ranks of the unemployed.
 For him, it should be short-lived. Teams are not allowed to offer contracts to players cut yesterday until today, and Warner's agent said he expected to have a deal done by the end of the week. The Giants remain the front-runners for Warner, but his agent, Mark Bartelstein, said that five or six teams had been talking to him about Warner and that he expected most of them to make an offer. 
 More prominent players are expected to be cut this week, including the Jets' planned release of quarterback Vinny Testaverde today. 
 Testaverde, who played six seasons for the Jets and who helped lead them to the American Football Conference championship game in the 1998 season, could end up in Dallas with Bill Parcells, his Jets coach during that playoff year. New England is also said to be interested in Testaverde as security behind Tom Brady.
 ''I appreciate the Jets allowing me to move on with my career,'' the 40-year-old Testaverde said in a statement. ''I want to thank the organization for giving me a chance to play in my hometown. It's been a great experience. We had some exciting moments on the field and memories I can take with me.''
 The Jets also decided not to tender a contract to cornerback Jamie Henderson, who sustained severe head injuries in a motorcycle accident in April. The injuries, though not life-threatening, have left his playing future in doubt.
 Quarterback, though, is the position everyone is watching as the cuts unfold. What the Raiders do with Rich Gannon after the signing of Kerry Collins is the biggest mystery, even after Coach Norv Turner came out last week and proclaimed Gannon the starter. If Gannon leaves, it could interest Tampa Bay, which may then respond with a pink slip to Brad Johnson.
 There is no deadline for any of that to happen. Yesterday became significant as a cut day because it is the deadline to count a player's signing bonus against the salary cap all in this season. Waiting until after yesterday allows a team to stretch that cap hit over two seasons, which means Warner's $9 million tag counts about $4 million for this season and $5 million for next.
 Even though everyone knew this was coming -- the Rams signed starter Marc Bulger to a contract extension and allowed Warner to shop for his new team -- Bartelstein said it was still a bit jarring for Warner.
 ''It's a complicated day for him,'' Bartelstein said. ''He had one of the great stretches not only in Rams history but in N.F.L. history. He is the highest-rated quarterback of all time, and he did that in St. Louis. It's tough to walk away from that. But he is also excited. He can't wait to get started somewhere else.''
 That somewhere else seems likely to be with the Giants, who have been seeking a veteran quarterback to ease the rookie Eli Manning's transition into the N.F.L. Collins refused to restructure his $7 million contract to help accommodate Manning's high salary, and the Giants released him shortly after the draft. Warner is seeking something in the neighborhood of $3 million and probably a one-year deal so he can seek a better long-term situation after the season.
 The 33-year-old Warner, only four years removed from his fairytale rise from nobody to the Super Bowl's most valuable player, says he is still in his prime. His last start for the Rams was last year's opener -- at Giants Stadium.
 ''There is a lot of sadness,'' Bartelstein said. ''But there is also the thrill of what's coming next.''
 The Giants may also offer a contract to Redskins middle linebacker Jeremiah Trotter, who is expected to be cut this week after two disappointing seasons with the team. Trotter, 27, had the best of his six seasons with the Eagles from 1999 to 2001. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); ATHLETES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); SPORTS INJURIES (78%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (78%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (73%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (73%); SPORTS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION (72%); HEAD INJURIES (64%); ACCIDENTAL INJURIES (64%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%) Football

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (94%); ST LOUIS RAMS (91%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (91%); NEW YORK GIANTS (83%) St Louis Rams; New York Giants

PERSON: Lynn Zinser; Kurt Warner

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%); TAMPA, FL, USA (56%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (71%); FLORIDA, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2004



32 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; PUBLIC LIVES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 902 words

PERSON: Thomas R. Suozzi

HEADLINE: A Democrat Who Would Be Shrek

BYLINE: By ROBIN FINN

DATELINE: GLEN COVE, N.Y. 

 BODY:
THE big fish from this small pond is in hot water, and we're not talking about the raindrops dappling his gray suit as he hustles into Henry's Candy Shoppe, an unassuming luncheonette across the street from the elegant stone edifice of City Hall. 
 Thomas R. Suozzi, four times the mayor of Glen Cove -- it runs in the family: dad and uncle were Glen Cove mayors who nevertheless implored him to steer clear of local politics -- and now the Nassau County executive, takes credit for having spritzed up his hometown with, among other innovations on a tough-love slate, a tax increase of 29 percent in his first term as mayor. It rankled his constituents, but they paid it, rehired him three times and then promoted him. 
 The freshman county exec is concentrating on rankling his fellow elected officials with demands for Medicaid reform and the unseating of deadbeat incumbents. Two weeks ago, State Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver confirmed that Mr. Suozzi, a rising star on the radar of the national Democratic Party, which contributed $50,000 to his county campaign, didn't rate a coveted delegate slot for the Democratic National Convention to be held in Boston this July. Call it a major snub; Mr. Suozzi does. If Albany holds a Mr. Unpopularity contest, Mr. Suozzi wins, hands down. But he is going to Boston anyway and, no, not with a bag over his head. 
 This is a guy who sings Barney theme songs with his 14-month-old son (and proves it with a luncheonette reprise), a guy whose immediate agenda includes a birthday excursion with 17 little girls (his daughter is turning 9) for pizza, cake and ''Shrek 2.'' He confesses to being a big Shrek fan. Obviously the man is not easily embarrassed.
 ''Just because I want to change things doesn't mean I'm a disloyal Democrat: I'm a Democrat through and through,'' Mr. Suozzi says. ''The speaker of the Assembly is upset with me, as is the majority leader of the Senate, as are most of the elected officials in Albany, that I am working to educate voters that local taxes in New York are 72 percent above the national average and the reason for that is that our elected officials in Albany feel it is O.K. to pass laws and make us pay for it at the local level.'' Mr. Suozzi, 41, concludes his rant by banging a fist on the table: ''I'm doing it because I actually want to fix things!'' 
 AROUND here, the waitresses call him Tom, and the grill man towels off his own hand before shaking the politician's. Mr. Suozzi, arriving sans posse, receives permission to commandeer a distant booth in a rear section that is closed for cleaning. But he is not all message. He is hungry for a heap of rice pudding crowned by a snowcap of whipped cream, and he digs in after removing the maraschino cherry. He prefers his pudding pristine, which is what he'd like to think his politics are. His favorite movie is ''It's a Wonderful Life,'' in which Jimmy Stewart takes on the corrupt and conniving financier -- Mr. Potter -- out to ruin his hometown. Does it ever ring a bell. ''There's definitely a lot of Mr. Potters out there,'' chuckles Mr. Suozzi, who suffered the stigma of finding one appointee with allegedly Potter-esque ethics on his own county payroll -- Peter Sylver, Mr. Suozzi's former deputy for economic development, who resigned last fall and faces charges of fiscal impropriety and sexual harassment. 
 With friends like that, who needs you-know-what -- but Mr. Suozzi has those as well. You don't sponsor a Web site called fixAlbany.com or propose that each county oust a lazy legislator or two this November without catching an earful from state politicians who don't cotton to constructive criticism from a charismatic county exec with a gubernatorial gleam in his eye. 
 Besides being labeled a disloyal Democrat by Mr. Silver, he is contending with a lack of public support from likeminded compatriots. Why the reticence? ''Because of what happens in Albany when you do this stuff,'' he says. ''They want to try to squash you like a bug! If anything, I'm taking a big risk with my political career.'' 
 Mr. Suozzi didn't set out to be mayor, a been-there, done-that proposition for a Suozzi. He wanted to be a congressman: idealistic, ambitious stuff. He went to Boston College and got a law degree at Fordham, worked as a certified public accountant and a lawyer in Manhattan, and drafted himself to run for mayor of Glen Cove after the proposed Democratic candidate dropped out with three months left in her campaign. He was 29 and lost by 400 votes. 
 But he stopped hankering to go to Washington and decided to hunker in Glen Cove. He lives in a brick ranch here with his wife, Helene, and their three children. ''I found out that everything I wanted to be in politics for was right there in my own hometown,'' he says. 
 Raising taxes 29 percent was an iffy debut that taught him a pivotal political lesson: ''It showed me you can do the right thing even if it's a tough, risky decision, and still get re-elected, and I think that's what set me off.'' 
 He stands accused by Mr. Silver and others of being ''a young man in a hurry'' and doesn't deny it. His father was a city court judge at 28. He himself was a mayor at 31 and in 2001 became Nassau's youngest county executive, and the first Democrat with a Democratic legislature since 1917. He is not done yet. But first, more hands to shake on Glen Street and then, like a second dessert, there's Shrek.


GRAPHIC: Photo: THOMAS R. SUOZZI (Photo by Kirk Condyles for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (75%); TAX LAW (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); MEDICAID (68%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (67%) Politics and Government; County Executives; Biographical Information

COMPANY: HENRY'S CANDY (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2066 CHOCOLATE & COCOA PRODUCTS (58%)

Robin Finn; Thomas R (County Exec) Suozzi

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (91%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%) Nassau County (NY) 

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2004



33 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1396 words

HEADLINE: High-Rise Alert: There's a Fungus Among Us

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

 BODY:
Only a year after it opened in 2001, the 25-story, 453-room Kalia Tower at the Hilton Hawaiian Village in Waikiki was shut because of a persistent mold problem. The tower cost $95 million to build, and the Hilton Hotels Corporation spent $55 million on the cleanup, which lasted 13 months. Hilton has sued two dozen companies and individuals, including architects, construction companies and engineers, saying they were responsible for construction defects that allowed the gray fungus to flourish.
 Cases like Hilton's have captured the attention of the commercial real estate industry. Lenders are trying to develop new approaches and policies for guarding against mold, microscopic organisms that have been known to cause allergic reactions in some people and that can seriously reduce a building's value. Fitch Ratings has warned lenders in large transactions to make sure that inspectors test for mold because of the potential risk for income-producing property.
 In recent years, insured losses for mold damage have risen so sharply -- from $700 million in 2000 to $3 billion in 2002 for property damage alone, according to Robert J. Hartwig, the chief economist for the Insurance Industry Institute, a trade association -- that insurance companies, fearing mold could be the new asbestos in terms of litigation, no longer cover mold damage in conventional policies. 
 Commercial property owners can still get some coverage but only as an addition to an expensive pollution liability policy. David J. Dybdahl, a senior consultant for American Risk Management Resources Network, a consulting company in Middleton, Wis., estimates that fewer than one-tenth of 1 percent of property owners are covered. 
 The premiums are costly, with high deductibles, and only property owners who can demonstrate that they have already taken action to prevent, identify and control mold can qualify, Mr. Dybdahl said. 
 But Mr. Dybdahl said mold insurance might become cheaper and easier to get as a result of a report issued last week by the Institute of Medicine, an arm of the National Academy of Sciences that advises the federal government on health issues. A panel of experts found that mold does not appear to pose a serious threat to most people. But Mr. Dybdahl said there was ''no chance that it will eliminate mold exclusions in standard policies.''
 Kevin J. Madden, the managing director of the real estate practice for Aon, the global insurance brokerage company, said the owner of a 25-story building in Texas would pay about $75,000 a year for pollution coverage with a cap of $5 million (with a $100,000 deductible), on top of its property and liability premium of $75,000 to $100,000. Mold coverage, if allowed, would cost an additional $50,000. (Covering an entire portfolio of properties costs substantially less per building, as does paying for a three-year term, Mr. Madden said.) The average commercial loss for a single incident is $200,000, according to Mr. Dybdahl. 
 Mr. Madden said: ''There is no economical insurance available, especially for the small buyer. The larger owners, if they're not buying it already, they are giving more consideration to it.'' But he said that even when coverage was available for injury to tenants, it might not be possible for the landlord to recover for property damage.
 Zurich Insurance began offering mold coverage a year ago as an add-on to an environmental policy, but it will not sell the insurance for properties like hospitals, where patients with compromised immune systems may be more susceptible to infection arising from mold exposure, nor to hotels, which have more bathrooms than other buildings and therefore may be more vulnerable to moisture damage. 
 ''We consider them to be high risk,'' said David J. Jung, a vice president of Zurich Insurance, referring to hospitals and hotels. ''We're not comfortable underwriting them.''
 Zurich requires borrowers who seek mold coverage to fill out detailed questionnaires about the maintenance history of the building and potential problems that could lead to mold growth. Sometimes an engineer is sent to inspect the building, he said. The additional coverage can increase the pollution coverage premium by as much as 30 percent, he said.
 Lenders say they are only now beginning to grapple with mold risks. Katie Schwarting, director of commercial real estate financing for the Mortgage Bankers Association, a trade group in Washington, said lenders were not requiring borrowers to buy mold coverage because they believed that the insurers' caps on potential claims were too low.
 But Ms. Schwarting said lenders were requiring borrowers to submit plans specifying the action they would take in the event of a mold problem ''so there is a meeting of the minds about what will happen.''
 Ms. Schwarting said some lenders responding to a recent survey conducted by her organization reported that they had turned down requests for loans because of extensive mold damage, but she said most would not reject a borrower solely because some mold was observed or suspected. ''If we stopped lending because of mold -- there's mold in every shower stall across the nation,'' she said. 
 One lender, Richard M. Sullivan, a vice president at Legacy Real Estate Finance, a division of Legacy Banks of Pittsfield, Mass., said he had not come across reports of mold when reviewing loan applications. If he did, he said, ''more than likely we would pass on it.'' He added, ''You just don't want to take the additional risk.'' 
 Despite all the fuss about mold, said Mary E. O'Rourke, a senior director at Fitch Ratings, investors are better protected today than they were a few years ago. Investment bankers avoid including mold-infested buildings in portfolios that are to be sold to investors in the form of commercial mortgage-backed securities because such problems are likely to result in lower ratings, she said.
 The insurance industry and lawyers who represent property owners maintain that the risks associated with mold have been hugely exaggerated by plaintiffs' lawyers in states like California and Texas, where several multimillion-dollar verdicts have been handed down. In one Texas case that attracted national attention, Melinda Ballard won a $32 million jury verdict against Farmers Insurance (later reduced to $4 million plus interest and lawyers' fees) after her 22-room house in the Austin suburb of Dripping Springs was invaded by mold.
 Now, however, mold litigation is entering a new phase, with the target no longer a homeowner's insurance company but rather developers, contractors and subcontractors on commercial projects, as illustrated by the Hilton case, Mr. Dybdahl said. In another commercial case, LaeRoc Partners, a California company that owns the former Waikiki Parkside, a hotel across the street from the Hilton, has sued the former owners, accusing them of withholding information about mold problems that led to the hotel's closing.
 ''Four or five years ago we saw very few cases,'' Mr. Hartwig of the Insurance Industry Institute said. ''Today, they are exploding.'' 
 But real estate specialists say mold has become more of a problem in recent years in part because buildings tend to be more tightly sealed to make them more energy efficient; this means that moisture is trapped inside. Mold does not proliferate just in areas with high humidity but can also be a result of shoddy construction, sometimes because the contractor cut corners and, say, did not install the roof properly, so that moisture seeps in.
 ''Contractors,'' said Christopher C. Gunther, the manager of industrial hygiene services for EMG, a company in Hunt Valley, Md., that performs environmental assessments for lenders, ''are always rushed, always under a deadline. The pressure put on the construction industry to get buildings completed is enormous.''
 Charles L. Perry Jr., a principal of the Environmental Assurance Group, a consulting company in West Hartford, said that since mold was created when spores came in contact with moisture, heat and paper, using materials containing fiberglass or gypsum instead of paper would eliminate the essential food source. ''I'd rather not deal with mother nature,'' Mr. Perry said.
 But Mr. Madden at Aon said there was always the danger that new materials could create new issues. ''Asbestos was once a state-of-the-art product,'' he noted.


CORRECTION-DATE: June 3, 2004

 CORRECTION:
The Commercial Real Estate article in Business Day yesterday, about mold insurance, misstated the name of an industry group and an initial of its chief economist. (The errors also occurred in an article in Business Day on May 12 about terrorism insurance.) The group is the Insurance Information Institute, not the Insurance Industry Institute; the economist is Robert P. Hartwig, not Robert J.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The 25-story, 453-room Kalia Tower at the Hilton Hawaiian Village in Waikiki was shut because of a persistent mold problem. (Photo by Cory Lum for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (91%); CONSTRUCTION (91%); INSURANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LITIGATION (90%); MOLDS & FUNGI (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LIABILITY INSURANCE (89%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (89%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (76%); CONSTRUCTION INSURANCE (76%); INSURANCE POLICIES (75%); RISK MANAGEMENT (74%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); HOTEL CHAINS (73%); CATASTROPHIC LOSSES (72%); LIABILITY INSURANCE (72%); ASBESTOS (72%); ASBESTOS & ENVIRONMENTAL LOSS (72%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (72%); ALLERGIES (72%); RENTAL PROPERTY (70%); CREDIT BUREAUS (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (66%) Office Buildings and Commercial Properties; Mold; Insurance; Suits and Litigation; Office Buildings and Commercial Properties

COMPANY: HILTON WORLDWIDE (85%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (56%); AMERICAN RISK MANAGEMENT GROUP INC (54%); AMERICAN RISK MANAGEMENT CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Insurance Industry Institute; Hilton Hawaiian Village (Waikiki Beach)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (85%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (85%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (56%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6351 SURETY INSURANCE (54%)

PERSON: Terry Pristin; Robert J Hartwig

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2004



34 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1312 words

HEADLINE: Little Film Studio on Campus Fosters Dreams as Big as Texas

BYLINE: By RANDY KENNEDY

DATELINE: AUSTIN, Tex. 

 BODY:
It usually works this way: You go to film school to learn about making movies, then you graduate and work your way up at a place where real movies -- and maybe real money -- are made. But if the University of Texas has its way, that whole graduate-and-get-a-job part might become incidental.
 The university's film program, with the help of what it describes as an army of lawyers, has recently joined forces with investors to form its own tiny independent movie studio in this central Texas city. 
 No American film school has ever tried such an ambitious foray into commercial filmmaking, and the project is being watched with great interest, and great skepticism, in academia and Hollywood. Previous ventures by film schools, even in a small way, have not worked out well. In the mid-1990's the University of Southern California began a program to help its graduates make low-budget movies. But the program produced only one, which never found a theatrical distributor. 
 In part the University of Texas's movie idea is a bid to join the top ranks of film schools. The program here has always been well regarded -- and has turned out some famous graduates like the director Robert Rodriguez and the actor Matthew McConaughey -- but it has never been as successful as programs at New York University and the University of Southern California, for example, at placing graduates in the industry.
 So over the next three years the university says it plans to make at least eight movies, some with budgets of more than $3 million, that it hopes will attract distributors and moviegoers around the country. To underscore its seriousness, it has attracted several well-known movie names to serve on the film program's advisory board, including Mr. McConaughey, Richard Linklater and Mike Simpson, an executive vice president of the William Morris Agency, which has agreed to help find distributors and backers for the movies. 
 The university also says that, in a kind of coup, Terrence Malick, the reclusive director of ''Badlands'' and ''Days of Heaven,'' will be one of the producers on its first movie. The intention is to give the 1,000 film students here -- both undergraduates and graduate students -- a better education by letting them work alongside professionals on the sets and in the production of the movies. But the plan will not work unless the university succeeds in doing something that countless ambitious and smart moviemakers try and fail to do every year: make money.
 ''We're making this up as we go,'' said Thomas Schatz, a film historian and professor who came up with the idea. ''But we wouldn't have done it if we weren't sure we could make movies that will make some money.'' He and others in the project say they hope to make good art-house-type films, but they would not be disappointed at all if they happened to stumble across the next ''Blair Witch Project.''
 Along the way there have been countless practical hurdles in figuring how a publicly supported university can make potentially profitable movies. In a recent interview Dr. Schatz said with a smile that ''as far we know it's all legal.'' But the plan has raised questions, some of which have still not been answered.
 For instance, can a student profit if a movie he helped write becomes a hit? The university has said no; it is an educational experience, and it will own the rights to the work, in much the same way that computer-science departments often own technology created by their students.
 ''These students are not going to get points,'' said Ellen Wartella, dean of the College of Communications, referring to a percentage of the profits. But what about sequel rights? ''We're still working on that issue,'' she said.
 And what happens if movie unions, which have become stronger in Austin as the city has become more popular among filmmakers, object because students are taking jobs from their members?
 ''I think they're going to have to understand the concept of cultivating new members through this, and cut us some slack,'' said Carolyn Pfeiffer, a veteran producer who was hired from the American Film Institute in Los Angeles to run the film program's movie company, called Burnt Orange Productions. ''I think they want to do that.'' (The International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees, which represents set designers, sound technicians and other set workers, said it was in talks with the university.)
 The idea is also to capitalize on Austin's increasing visibility as a moviemaking city, now called the Third Coast'' (though sometimes with condescension). Over the last several years many movies -- including ''The Alamo,'' ''The Rookie'' and Mr. Rodriguez's hugely successful ''Spy Kids'' series -- have been made in or around Austin.
 Dr. Schatz, the former chairman of the university's department of radio, television and film, said that because of this growing movie scene, he had long felt the program should follow the lead of medical and architecture schools in forming commercial partnerships, not only to better educate students but also to make money for the university.
 ''It's been going on with technology for a long time,'' he said. ''But we just don't think about the arts and humanities that way.''
 When he first approached the university with the idea in the mid-1990's, it turned him down. But a new administration took over in 1998, and a couple of years ago university officials asked Dr. Schatz what had happened to the idea. ''In the meantime the economy had gone into the toilet, which I think had a lot to do with this,'' he said. ''In some ways it's about the university rethinking its revenue sources.''
 Whether the idea will become a revenue source is far from certain. On June 3 the university's president, Larry R. Faulkner, is expected to announce one of the project's first movies, ''The Marfa Lights,'' whose screenplay was commissioned and overseen by Mr. Malick, who sometimes lives in Austin. The film -- a kind of ''East of Eden'' story set in South Texas -- is in development and will be directed by Carlos Carrera, whose 2002 movie, ''El Crimen del Padre Amaro,'' was the highest-grossing domestic production ever released in Mexico.
 So expectations are high. Movie industry officials say that the hardest part will be figuring out how to give students a meaningful role in moviemaking without hindering directors and producers, whose main goal is not teaching but getting a movie made.
 ''Professionals don't want to sit around and mollycoddle somebody,'' said Tom Copeland, director of the Texas Film Commission, who serves on the board of the University of Texas Film Institute, the academic arm of the project. ''And they're going to have to do that here.'' He added: ''It really takes the right kind of person to do this, to understand the concept. This is not going to be easy.''
 Bob Berney, a University of Texas film graduate who is now the president of Newmarket Films, which distributed ''The Passion of the Christ,'' said he believed investors would be interested, at least initially. Compared with the ''typical wild, bizarre schemes'' for making movies that still prevail in Hollywood, the university's idea ''actually seems very thought through in comparison.'' Mr. Berney, who also serves on the film institute board, added, ''On paper it sounds like a great idea.'' 
 Librado Lozano certainly thinks so. An undergraduate film student, he has postponed his graduation for the chance to work on the first movie, ''Marfa Lights.'' Mr. Lozano said he hoped to learn a lot. But more than that, he said, he hopes to see his name crawl by on screen at the end of the movie.
 ''For somebody who's trying to get into the business, the credit is a really huge thing,'' he said. ''That's what I'm really hoping for.'' And maybe, he said, to see Terrence Malick. ''I mean, he'll probably be walking around the set. How cool is that?''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Wayne Chance rests from his chores in the audio room in Austin, where Hollywood meets the University of Texas. Students hope to see their names in screen credits. (Photo by Bryce Harper for The New York Times)(pg. E5)
From top, Terrence Malick, Matthew McConaughey and Richard Linklater, are aiding a Texas film program. (Photo by Associated Press)
(Photo by Getty Images)
 (Photo by 20th Century Fox)(pg. E1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM SCHOOLS (91%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (91%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); FILM (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); FILM HISTORY (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); TALENT AGENTS (73%); HISTORY (69%); EXECUTIVES (65%) Motion Pictures

COMPANY: WILLIAM MORRIS AGENCY INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (93%); UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (83%) University of Texas

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: Matthew Mcconaughey; Richard Linklater; Terrence Malick; Randy Kennedy

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (88%) TEXAS, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2004



35 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 598 words

HEADLINE: W.T.O. Moves to Revive Talks on Farm Subsidies

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH BECKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 1 

 BODY:
With little fanfare, trade ministers and diplomats have revived the global trade talks that fell apart in Cancun last year, hoping to salvage a framework agreement by the end of July. 
 This week, at a World Trade Organization session in Geneva, diplomats will debate a proposal from developing nations to reduce or eliminate tariffs on agriculture -- the central issue dividing rich countries and poor countries in the negotiations. 
 The goal is to make up for the time lost by the failure of the Cancun talks. If successful, this week's round of discussions will lead to meetings of trade ministers and senior diplomats set to take place at the end of July at the W.T.O. in Geneva. 
 The so-called Doha round of talks, named for the city in Qatar where the round was opened in 2001 and dedicated to helping the developing world, has been revived since the United States and the European Union offered new compromises on the issue of farm subsidies.
 ''There are very good atmospherics,'' said Keith Rockwell, spokesman for the World Trade Organization. ''The longstanding problems of agricultural subsidies are slowly but surely lurching towards a solution.''
 A breakthrough has been slow in coming, building over the last five months. Encouraged by support from Robert B. Zoellick, the United States trade representative, Pascal Lamy, the European Union's top trade minister, offered last month to end Europe's direct agriculture export subsidies despite grumbling by French farm interests. 
 But any breakthrough on agriculture must be matched with serious proposals on industrial tariffs, services and other issues before a framework can be reached. 
 Farmers in the United States, Europe, Japan and other wealthy nations have fought against most attempts to cut back the estimated $300 billion in annual subsidies and supports they receive, giving the world's poorer countries little reason to open their markets further to products and services from the rich nations. 
 In the United States, November's presidential election looms large in part because the states most dependent on farm subsidies are also those that have regularly voted Republican in recent elections.
 Mr. Zoellick has expressed a willingness, however, to reduce American export subsidies in line with the European offer if that will get the trade talks going again. 
 Adding to the momentum, Brazil has successfully sued the United States at the W.T.O. over its subsidies for cotton, giving further weight to the arguments in favor of reducing or eliminating many of the agriculture supports.
 Led by Brazil, India and South Africa, a new group of 20 developing countries has put forward a proposal that would call on all but the poorest nations to move quickly to reduce protections for their farm sectors. Wealthy nations would be allowed to maintain higher tariffs for some of their most sensitive products, as Japan does with rice. 
 The United States welcomed the proposal but officials said much more needed to be done.
 ''It's very general,'' said Richard Mills, a spokesman for Mr. Zoellick. ''What we need to do is translate general principles into specific formulas for cuts in tariffs so the Doha development agenda can open agriculture markets.''
 There is little time for reaching a compromise.
 European officials said they were willing to end their export subsidies as long as the United States offered similarly tough compromises.
 ''Frankly,'' Arancha Gonzales, Mr. Lamy's spokeswoman, said, ''we want to buy reform of the U.S. farm bill with our concessions on export subsidies and lock in these reforms.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE DEVELOPMENT (92%); TALKS & MEETINGS (92%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); AGRICULTURE (89%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); EXPORT PROMOTION (87%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (66%) Agriculture; International Trade and World Market; Customs (Tariff); Third World and Developing Countries

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%) World Trade Organization

PERSON: ROBERT ZOELLICK (58%); PASCAL LAMY (57%) Elizabeth Becker

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (94%); SWITZERLAND (93%); MEXICO (93%); JAPAN (92%); BRAZIL (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); INDIA (79%); QATAR (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2004



36 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; $25 AND UNDER; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 791 words

HEADLINE: An Athletic Take on the French Standards

BYLINE: By Eric Asimov

 BODY:
IT has not been an easy few years for French bistros. No, I'm not talking about the places like DB Bistro Moderne, which is a bistro the way Gramercy Tavern is a corner bar. I mean the neighborhood places, the modest French restaurants that proliferated a decade ago.
 Nowadays, new trattorias far outnumber new bistros. Many of the older ones were shaken by the roller-coaster ride of superheated economy, Nasdaq crash, 9/11 and war. To make matters more difficult, the French kitchen sensibility has infiltrated cuisines around the world. Fusion restaurants from Tabla on down have one common denominator: they have blended their home ingredients with French cooking techniques. In the sincerest form of flattery, little American restaurants have adopted the most obvious of the bistro's standard repertory: steak frites, roast chicken and the like. Throw some Edith Piaf on the stereo, scrawl a menu on a mirror, and you have a bistro. 
 With the French restaurant identity so diluted, it comes as an unexpected pleasure to find a new bistro with its character intact. Le Quinze opened about a month ago on the Greenwich Village side of West Houston Street, in a spot that most recently housed a branch of Le Gamin, a minichain of French cafes. What makes Le Quinze noteworthy is not the character of the interior -- it does not have much -- but the character of the food.
 The chef, Bernard Liberatore, who is also an owner, knows how to draw flavor and intensity from standard ingredients. And after all, isn't that one of the historic gifts of the French kitchen?
 I remember my first meal on a trip to France as a student, a simple plate of grilled steak and haricots verts, and wondering how everything could possibly taste so good. I wondered the same thing one afternoon after tasting Mr. Liberatore's mushroom soup ($6), a creamy broth that was deep and rich, with fat slices of mushroom occasionally floating to the top. The humble croque-monsieur ($8.50) seems almost majestic in his hands, like French toast encasing ham and cheese. It is the best I have ever had.
 Mr. Liberatore's tuna and avocado rillettes ($8) win points for creativity, though calling them rillettes is false advertising. The tuna, thin as carpaccio, is layered across a sort of Venezuelan avocado sauce. The union of rich tuna and pungent avocado, with bursts of sweetness from strips of apple, is superb. 
 Mr. Liberatore and his partner, Pascal Escriout, are rugby players, hence the name, Le Quinze, which is French for the 15, a rugby team. Rugby images adorn the restaurant, and as Mr. Escriout walks the room, you can imagine this athletic-looking man, who is also an owner of Tournesol in Long Island City, Queens, fighting his way out of a scrum.
 A dining table might turn into a scrum as friends dive for appetizers like fried calamari perched on a moist disk of mint-imbued tabbouleh ($7.50), a lovely combination, or a housemade terrine of oxtail and vegetables ($9). While I missed the fun of extracting snails ($8) from their shells, they are tender and delicious in their frothy, herbal broth. 
 Not everything is a hit, and Le Quinze's main courses are more inconsistent than the appetizers. Monkfish cannelloni ($17) is brilliant -- the meaty fish is wrapped not with pasta but almost transparent strips of zucchini. It is then served over a ragout of tiny black lentils in a smoky, creamy sauce, which pulls the dish together. Roast duck fillet ($18.50), crisp around the outside, is the centerpiece of an excellent composition, including sauteed endive and a delicious little prune tart.
 But lamb slices crusted with thyme ($19) make an awkward, grating combination, and roasted chicken ($14.50) is dry. On the plus side is salmon ($15), cooked slowly to retain the fish's rich delicate flavor, which is so often lost to clumsy grilling.
 Desserts ($6 each) are familiar but well-executed, like dense pot de creme, not-too-sweet lemon tart and a rustic cherry clafoutis. 
 Service is friendly, and Mr. Escriout is especially pleased if you try a wine from the southwest of France. Why should he not try to push his region? Just when it seems that the life has gone out of so many French restaurants, it is refreshing to hear enthusiasm. Especially when it is backed up on the plate.

Le Quinze
132 West Houston Street (near Macdougal), (212) 475-1515.

BEST DISHES -- Mushroom soup; croque-monsieur; fried calamari with mint tabbouleh; oxtail terrine; snails; roast duck; slow-cooked salmon; pot de creme; cherry clafoutis.
PRICE RANGE -- Appetizers, $6 to $12; main courses, $14.50 to $19.
CREDIT CARDS -- American Express.
HOURS -- Monday through Saturday, 8:30 a.m. to 11:30 p.m. Sunday, 8:30 a.m. to 10 p.m.
WHEELCHAIR ACCESS -- Everything is on one level.


GRAPHIC: Photo: SCRUM HERE -- Le Quinze is adorned with images of rugby, the owners' favorite sport. (Photo by Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (92%); DRINKING PLACES (89%); RUGBY (83%) Restaurants; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: Le Quinze (NYC Restaurant)

PERSON: Eric Asimov

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2004



37 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1492 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Starting to See Chance Of Keeping Senate Seats in South

BYLINE: By RICK LYMAN

DATELINE: CHARLOTTE, N.C., May 29 

 BODY:
Not so long ago, the South provided a bleak landscape for Democrats. Struggling to recover from devastating defeats in the 2002 off-year elections, the party saw five of its incumbent senators announce their retirements -- John B. Breaux in Louisiana, John Edwards in North Carolina, Ernest F. Hollings in South Carolina, Zell Miller in Georgia and Bob Graham in Florida. 
 Because President Bush won all five states in 2000, Republicans saw the vacancies as fertile ground for solidifying control of the Senate. 
 But now, some of those election contests are shaping up as unexpectedly spirited. With a sluggish regional economy, continued bloodshed in Iraq and a certain distance from their own party, Southern Democrats say they sense political daylight -- and a slim possibility of recapturing the Senate. 
 Independent experts say there is more to the Democratic claims than election year spin.
 ''I think the Democrats are going to end up winning a few of these races,'' said Charlie Cook, editor of The Cook Political Report, a nonpartisan publication. ''The president will certainly win in the South, but he's not going to be the asset for other Republican candidates that you might normally expect.''
 The stakes are high and extend well beyond the South. Citing Mr. Bush's declining approval rating, Democrats have begun to talk openly about the possibility -- slim though it may be -- of the party's recapturing one or both houses of Congress in November. In the Senate, where Republicans outnumber Democrats 51 to 48 (there is one independent), even one or two victories in the South would be a major step toward that goal, giving the Democrats a cushion if they lose elsewhere. 
 ''I think the Democrats are turning out to have a legitimate shot of winning back control of the Senate, maybe a 30 percent to 40 percent chance, and the South is going to be huge in that effort,'' Mr. Cook said. 
 For both parties, much hinges on the top of the ticket. Even as they distance themselves from their own party, Democrats insist that Mr. Bush's sinking fortunes will hurt Republicans. 
 ''We started in the worst of all possible worlds with all of these retirements,'' Brad Woodhouse, communications director for the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, said. Now, Mr. Woodhouse said, ''We think there is no question you are seeing the president drag down Republican candidates across the country, including in strongholds in the South.''
 Nonsense, Republican strategists respond, the Democrats are just whistling Dixie.
 ''This is like Custer's Last Stand for them,'' the Republican chairman in South Carolina, Katon Dawson, said. ''Look at how they're running from their nominee. I mean, their candidates in the South are just absolutely getting on a bus and running away from John Kerry. Meanwhile, we're hugging George Bush. ''
 The Republican candidate for Senate in North Carolina, Representative Richard M. Burr, put it this way, ''I think Democrats are desperate to find a state or a region where they can say, ''Look here, people have missed it, but we really are competitive.'''
 Brad Coker, managing director of Mason-Dixon Polling and Research, a nonpartisan organization that has conducted polls in the region, says both sides have a point. 
 ''Where President Bush is vulnerable in the South is on the economic issues, whether it's high gas prices or the perception that the economy is recovering too slowly,'' Mr. Coker said. ''But where he has the advantage over Kerry is in defense and the military. As a whole, the South continues to be much more supportive of the president on these issues than the country as a whole. ''
 Stuart Rothenberg, an independent political analyst, warned that although ''there is some light at the end of the tunnel for the Democrats,'' the tunnel may prove to be too long -- Democrats have to emerge before the election -- and there may be some bumps at the end.
 ''The Democrats' problem is that when these races really engage in the fall, issues like guns and gay marriage and taxes are going to become the focus, not restlessness over George Bush's leadership,'' Mr. Rothenberg said. ''It's going to be much more George Bush, a conservative Texas Republican, versus John Kerry, a liberal Massachusetts Democrat, and even those Republicans who may be restless now are going to come home.''
 Democratic strategists acknowledge that the odds remain against them in most of these Southern contests, and they are compensating by emphasizing their independence.
 ''I don't think my ideas are Republican ideas and I don't think they're Democratic ideas,'' Erskine Bowles, the Democratic candidate for the Senate in North Carolina, recently told 12 voters at a restaurant. ''I just think they're good ideas.''
 A few hours earlier, Inez Tenenbaum, the education commissioner of South Carolina and the Democrats' Senate hopeful there, stood on the southern steps of the State House in Columbia -- petite and steely -- and likewise promised to be ''an independent voice'' beholden to no national party.
 ''They're trying to out-Republican the Republicans,'' Mr. Dawson said.
 Mr. Cook said the Democrats' best chances were in Louisiana and, depending on which candidates emerge from the primary, Florida. North Carolina is too close to call, he said. And although Georgia is virtually hopeless, the right breaks could result in a surprise Democratic victory in South Carolina, Mr. Cook said.
 In Louisiana, Democrats expect the open primary on Nov. 2 to result in a runoff in December between Representative Chris John, a Democrat, and Representative David Vitter, a Republican. 
 The Democrats hope that the result will be similar to the election in 2002, when a Democrat, Senator Mary L. Landrieu. won re-election in a similar runoff, providing the party one of its few bright spots that year. Mr. Kerry's campaign is so hopeful about its prospects there that it has added Louisiana to its list of battleground states, sending in the candidate for rallies and spending money on television advertisements.
 In North Carolina, a Mason-Dixon poll of 625 registered voters conducted from May 14 to May 17 found 45 percent favoring Mr. Bowles, 35 percent for Mr. Burr and 20 percent undecided. Republicans shrug off those numbers as a temporary result of Mr. Bowles's statewide name recognition, a result of his unsuccessful Senate race against Elizabeth Dole in 2002. 
 The races in Georgia and Florida are still something of a muddle, with multiple candidates fighting them out in Democratic and Republican primaries in both states, July 20 in Georgia and Aug. 31 in Florida.
 Strategists from both parties have paid little attention to the race in Alabama, where Senator Richard C. Shelby, a Republican, is widely expected to win re-election against a little-known Democratic opponent, Wayne Sowell, who captured the nomination by default when the only other candidate was ruled ineligible.
 That leaves South Carolina, a state long considered highly likely to go Republican, but where Democrats increasingly say Ms. Tenenbaum has at least a fighting chance.
 Six Republicans are vying in a primary on June 8 to compete against her, including former Gov. David M. Beasley, Representative Jim DeMint and Thomas Ravenel, a wealthy developer. A blistering late June runoff is considered quite likely.
 Democrats had been hoping that a bitter primary battle would drive Republican candidates further to the right and alienate independents, but the race has thus far been relatively calm.
 ''I am shocked at the decorum we have shown here,'' Mr. Dawson, the Republican chairman, said. ''But I do foresee the bare knuckles coming out in the next few weeks.''
 Meanwhile, Ms. Tenenbaum has positioned herself as a decidedly moderate Democrat who veers conservative on some social issues, including support for a constitutional amendment to ban gay marriage. Like Mr. Bowles, Ms. Tenenbaum has been able to pound away on jobs and fair trade. Mr. Rothenberg said the race leaned toward the Republicans, and Democrats concede that South Carolina remains tough. 
 ''We're going to need every break we can get,'' Mr. Woodhouse said.
 Throughout the region, candidates have followed the template set by Ms. Landrieu's re-election in 2002 emphasizing local issues, proclaiming independence from the national party and promising to vote with the Republicans if warranted.
 ''Maybe everywhere, but definitely in Louisiana and, I'm sure, in South and North Carolina, people want a senator who will fight for their state and not be beholden to any national political party,'' Ms. Landrieu said.
 Ms. Tenenbaum certainly heard that message. And Mr.Bowles, too.
 ''I'm not running a national campaign, I'm running in North Carolina,'' he said at Anderson's Restaurant while the voters tucked into their pecan pies. ''And the people of North Carolina don't want somebody who will just be a rubber stamp for this administration or for any administration.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Two Democrats on the campaign trail in the South: Erskine Bowles greeting a roundtable at Anderson's Restaurant in Charlotte, N.C., and Inez Tenenbaum with Walt Mouzon of the South Carolina Combat Veterans' Group on the steps of the State Capitol in Columbia, S.C. (Photographs by Nell Redmond for The New York Times)(pg. A16)Chart: ''LAY OF THE LAND: Democratic Senate Seats in the South''Five Southern Democratic senators are retiring, but some Democrats say job worries and turmoil in Iraq mean their chances of holding on to some of the seats may be improving.FloridaRETIRING: Bob GrahamVOTE FOR PRESIDENT IN 2000Bush: 49%Gore: 49%PARTY REGISTRATIONDem.: 42%Rep.: 38Indep./other: 20UNEMPLOYMENT RATE (U.S. is 5.6%): 4.6%GeorgiaRETIRING: Zell MillerVOTE FOR PRESIDENT IN 2000Bush: 55%Gore: 43%PARTY REGISTRATION:(No voter registration by party)UNEMPLOYMENT RATE (U.S. is 5.6%): 3.8%LouisianaRETIRING: John B. BreauxVOTE FOR PRESIDENT IN 2000Bush: 53%Gore: 45%PARTY REGISTRATIONDem.: 58%Rep.: 24Indep./other: 19UNEMPLOYMENT RATE (U.S. is 5.6%): 5.9%North CarolinaRETIRING: John EdwardsVOTE FOR PRESIDENT IN 2000Bush: 56%Gore: 43%PARTY REGISTRATIONDem.: 48%Rep.: 35Indep./other: 18UNEMPLOYMENT RATE (U.S. is 5.6%): 5.3%South CarolinaRETIRING: Ernest F. HollingsVOTE FOR PRESIDENT IN 2000Bush: 57%Gore: 41%PARTY REGISTRATION(No voter registration by party)UNEMPLOYMENT RATE (U.S. is 5.6%): 6.8%Numbers may not add up to 100 because of rounding.(Source by America Votes
states' secretaries of state
 Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. A16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (76%) Public Opinion

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%) Senate (US)

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); ERSKINE BOWLES (57%) George W (Pres) Bush; Rick Lyman

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (92%); COLUMBIA, SC, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%) United States; Southern States (US); United States

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2004



38 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 180 words

HEADLINE: Student Loan Programs

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Your recent editorials about the reauthorization of the Higher Education Act (April 25, May 6 and May 25) imply that the Federal Family Education Loan Program, which relies on private bank participation, should be phased out and replaced with direct lending by the federal government. 
 Congress learned soon after the creation of the direct loan program the potential danger of relying on it as the sole source of federally guaranteed student loans. The program had several false starts, and its loan consolidation operation even suffered a temporary shutdown -- during which time private banks stepped in to assume borrowers' loans. 
 Your claim that direct lending saves money is at best premature, since such savings are contingent on projected performance benchmarks and interest rate scenarios that may or may not come to pass. 
 A recent General Accounting Office study that I requested found that the direct loan program borrowed over $90 billion more from the United States Treasury than it repaid between 1995 and 2003.

JIM NUSSLE
Chairman, House Budget Committee

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT LOANS (93%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TUITION FEES (88%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (88%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (88%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (88%); EDUCATION LAW (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); BENCHMARKING (67%); INTEREST RATES (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%) Colleges and Universities; Tuition; Student Loans; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (56%)

PERSON: JIM NUSSLE (76%) Jim (Rep) Nussle

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%) United States

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2004



39 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1164 words

HEADLINE: CBS joins the critics as a defiant Nielsen proceeds with changes to its television ratings methods.

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott

 BODY:
THE nasty war of words between Nielsen Media Research and its opponents is heating up as Nielsen defies the critics and proceeds today with plans to change the way it measures television ratings in New York.
 On the eve of the change, the CBS unit of Viacom became the first big broadcast network to urge Nielsen to delay its plans, declaring in a statement yesterday that Nielsen's ''overly aggressive, self-imposed timetable for this conversion'' would ''only be detrimental to its eventual effectiveness.''
 Underscoring the divisions on the issue, the decision by CBS came two weeks after BET -- a cable network also owned by Viacom, which offers programs aimed at black viewers -- endorsed the change. Univision Communications, operator of the largest network watched by Hispanics, last week came out against the change. 
 An organization representing many of the opponents of the changes, known as the Don't Count Us Out Coalition, attacked Nielsen anew yesterday, calling the company's most recent responses to its complaints ''inadequate and unacceptable'' and threatening lawsuits on the state and federal levels.
 Nielsen, in turn, insisted that the coalition cease an extensive advertising and public relations campaign that Nielsen said was filled with ''inaccuracies and distortions.'' The campaign now includes television commercials, which began running yesterday in four major markets to accompany advertisements that have been appearing in national and local newspapers and magazines.
 The dispute between Nielsen, owned by VNU, and its opponents is centered on plans by Nielsen to adopt electronic measurement devices known as local people meters to gather data on television viewership in the New York market, the nation's largest. Nielsen intends to make the same change in Chicago and Los Angeles in the next two months as part of plans to convert the 10 biggest markets to local people meters by the end of next year.
 The critics contend that the change, from the current system of using paper diaries along with people meters, would result in a significant undercounting of black and Hispanic viewers. Nielsen counters that the change would yield more accurate, not less accurate, data about what minorities watch because of the superiority of electronic measurement over paper diaries, which are filled out by hand.
 ''I equate this process as bringing the same result as undercounting on the census,'' Bernard Parks, a member of the Los Angeles City Council, said yesterday in a conference call with reporters in which members of the coalition outlined their coming advertising and legal steps.
 Nielsen, in a statement yesterday, said, ''People meters in no way prejudice any viewer group.''
 The unusual battle, pitting Nielsen against legislators, community organizations and powerful media companies, has riveted the advertising and marketing industries for months. One reason for their fascination is the importance of the Nielsen ratings in helping set advertising rates as well as determining programming schedules.
 ''Because of the economic damage'' that would be caused by undercounting minority viewers, ''we really don't have a choice'' but ''to pursue legal remedy'' to delay Nielsen from making the change, Alex Nogales, president of the National Hispanic Media Coalition, said during the conference call. Mr. Nogales, whose organization is a leading member of the Don't Count Us Out Coalition, said the coalition members were speaking with lawyers about filing suits against Nielsen in California and federal courts.
 Another reason for the intense interest is that the issue of counting viewers of television programs has concerned Madison Avenue for decades. The opponents made much of a decision Friday by the Media Rating Council, an industry association that audits ratings services, to deny accreditation to the local people meters in New York until Nielsen addresses what the council termed unspecified ''noncompliance and performance issues'' that were found in an audit.
 Nielsen had hoped the council would wait for the new system to go into effect before auditing it, but a decision by Nielsen to postpone the change to today from April 8 prevented that from happening.
 Nielsen said that while it would work with the council to find solutions to problems the council has with its methodology, it would not delay the change a second time. But in a concession to the critics, Nielsen said Tuesday that it would continue to report ratings data for the next three months in New York using the current system of paper diaries and people meters as well as the new system of local people meters only.
 The newest recruit to the ranks of the critics, CBS, said in its statement that it ''has been, and continues to be, a supporter of Nielsen's conversion to the people-meter-based measurement methodology'' in Chicago and Los Angeles as well as New York. But the network asked that Nielsen ''not convert to the new service in any market until the service successfully passed an audit'' by the Media Rating Council. 
 ''When the local people meter service in each market successfully passes'' an audit by the council, the CBS statement said, ''we are prepared to support the establishment of that service as the official measurement service for that market.''
 Dana McClintock, a spokesman for CBS, said the network was aware that its opposition to the change was contrary to the stand taken by its sibling, BET.
 Jack Loftus, a spokesman for Nielsen in New York, said the decision to continue reporting the ratings data from the current system as the company changes to the new system was made ''to address some of the concerns'' of CBS and the other critics.
 Nielsen called yesterday for the Don't Count Us Out Coalition to explain where it is getting the money for its advertising and public relations campaign, which is being created by advocacy agencies and consultants like the Glover Park Group and Fabiani/Lehane. The Media Research Council urged last week that the campaign ''be immediately ceased'' if it is being supported by media organizations.
 Univision said that while it opposed the change, it was not a member or a supporter of the coalition. But another media company, the News Corporation, has identified itself as a supporter of the coalition's campaign. 
 ''It's been financial; it's moral; it's organizational,'' Gary Ginsberg, a spokesman for the News Corporation in New York, said yesterday of the support, adding that the campaign ''has helped give voice to legitimate concerns we have, very serious concerns'' about the change to local people meters.
 Two broadcast stations in New York owned by the News Corporation's Fox Television Stations Group, WNYW (Channel 5) and WWOR (Channel 9), had declines in ratings in tests of the local people meters by Nielsen during the winter. But in those tests, viewership for many cable networks -- including BET and channels aimed at Hispanics including Telefutura and Telemundo -- increased. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (88%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (87%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (77%); CABLE INDUSTRY (77%); CABLE TELEVISION (77%); RACE & RACISM (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); CONFERENCE CALLS (67%); CITIES (60%); CITY GOVERNMENT (60%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (51%) Television; Ratings and Rating Systems; Discrimination; Blacks; Hispanic-Americans; Television; Advertising and Marketing; Suits and Litigation; Minorities

COMPANY: NIELSEN MEDIA RESEARCH (93%); VIACOM INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Nielsen Media Research; Cbs Corp; Viacom Inc; Bet Channel; Univision Communications; Don't Count US Out Coalition

TICKER: VIA (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (93%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (58%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (58%)

PERSON: Stuart Elliott

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2004



40 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1008 words

HEADLINE: Sales of Big S.U.V.'s Rebounded in May

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

 BODY:
Sales of the largest sport utility vehicles rebounded last month from a weak April as shoppers appeared to shrug off concerns about gas prices climbing above $2 a gallon. 
 But liberal incentives offered last month on the largest sport utilities raise some questions about the quality of the sales results. Automakers offered average rebates of $3,477 for large sport utility vehicles in May, a substantial increase from $2,557 a year earlier, according to Power Information Network, an affiliate of J.D. Power & Associates. Industrywide, rebate spending rose to $2,719 last month from $2,535 a vehicle a year ago. 
 ''The whole S.U.V. segment is very competitive,'' said Gary Dilts, senior vice president for sales at Chrysler, a division of DaimlerChrysler. ''If you look at the money being spent, it's just nuclear.''
 And the deal making continues. Yesterday, General Motors said that returning customers could take advantage of the company's highest rebate offer, $5,000, for most of its large S.U.V.'s, including the Chevrolet Suburban and GMC Yukon.
 Over all, the auto industry reported its strongest month of the year in May, with sales up 7.3 percent from a year ago. 
 A continuing trend is the pressure that the traditional domestic automakers are feeling from Japan. In May, Toyota Motor, which includes the Lexus brand, had its best sales month ever, and the company's market share in the United States grew to 12.4 percent from 11.8 percent a year earlier, according to the Autodata Corporation. 
 Industrywide, consumers continued to shift away from cars toward S.U.V.'s, including the largest models. Despite rising gas prices, market share for large S.U.V.'s rose to 6.1 percent in May from 5.4 percent in April, reaching its highest point since January and down less than half a percentage point from a strong performance in May 2003, according to Ward's AutoInfoBank. 
 That said, sales of the smallest and most fuel-efficient S.U.V.'s, known in Detroit as crossover vehicles, are a much more dynamic area of growth for the industry, though many of the sales are coming from people trading out of cars. 
 Are gas prices having any effect on auto shoppers?
 G.M., the nation's largest automaker, says no. Ford Motor, the second largest, says yes. 
 ''There's little evidence of any impact,'' said Paul Ballew, G.M.'s chief industry sales analyst. ''Gas prices today, in real dollar terms, are well below their historical peaks, about two-thirds the level we saw in the 1970's and early 80's.''
 Many articles about S.U.V. sales and gas prices, he added, were ''speculative in nature and not based on the facts.''
 Officials at Ford, however, said gas prices were, if not a prime mover, at least having some effect. 
 ''The top-of-mind topic in May is gasoline prices,'' said George Pipas, the chief industry sales analyst at Ford. 
 Among the major automakers, Ford showed weakness in sales of the largest S.U.V.'s, partly because the company has been reducing its incentive spending while competitors have been ratcheting up deals. 
 The Ford Escape, one of the company's smallest S.U.V.'s, continues to outperform, with sales up 44 percent in May from a year earlier. By contrast, sales of the company's largest S.U.V. offerings, the Ford Expedition, Ford Excursion and Lincoln Navigator, all declined more than 20 percent last month from a year earlier. In April and May of 2003, though, Ford began offering no-interest financing on the Expedition and Navigator and sales soared, making for a tough comparison. 
 Still, Mr. Pipas said he did not want to ''stick his head in the sand'' about gas prices. 
 ''If you look at the Ford results, you would conclude there is a shift in the kind of the vehicles that consumers purchased in May,'' he said. ''For example, look how well the Escape and Focus did, and the kind of increases they enjoyed from a couple of years ago, and look at the declines for the largest S.U.V.'s like the Ford Expedition and Lincoln Navigator.'' 
 The Focus, Ford's small car, was up 37.2 percent compared with a year earlier. At G.M., many of the largest sport utilities sold well. The Chevy Suburban was up 10.3 percent, the Cadillac Escalade was up 34 percent and the GMC Yukon was up 14 percent from a year earlier.
 One exception was the Hummer H2, which continues to struggle as its novelty wears off. Sales fell 34 percent last month.
 G.M. raised its incentive spending last month to $3,216 from $2,977 in the same month a year earlier, while Ford reduced its incentive spending to $2,682 from $2,796. 
 Some of the biggest incentives have been on large S.U.V.'s. 
 ''It's no secret that G.M. was much more aggressive in that area,'' said David Lucas, a vice president at Autodata, which tracks sales and incentive spending. ''There's no doubt that the aggressive incentives, even in the face of high fuel prices, are certainly effective.'' 
 Sam Butto, a spokesman for Toyota, said gas prices were not having much of an impact on sales. 
 ''We had a record sales month for light trucks, which seems to be what a lot of people are keying on,'' he said. ''It was a best-ever May for light trucks. Based on that, it doesn't seem to have had a major impact, at least not yet.''
 Demand is strong for the Toyota Prius, a hybrid car that uses electric power to save gas. Sales were up more than 200 percent last month from a year earlier. But it continues to be sold in relatively modest volumes.
 ''We can't get Priuses here quick enough,'' Mr. Butto said. ''We have people ordering Priuses who are waiting several months, sometimes six months or even longer.''
 Over all, sales at G.M. and Ford rose 6.5 percent and 0.1 percent, respectively, when adjusted for daily selling rates, according to Ward's. Nissan Motor sales were up 28.3 percent and Honda Motor sales were up 14 percent. Toyota sales were up 12.5 percent. 
 DaimlerChrysler sales were up 4.6 percent. The company's new Chrysler 300C, an unusual looking car with an imposing grille, appears to be off to a fast start, selling more than 13,000 vehicles last month.


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Monthly vehicle sales''Graph tracks the monthly sales of cars, vans, small trucks, small S.U.V.'s, large trucks, and large S.U.V.'s since 2003. (Jan. through May)(Source by Ward's AutoInfoBank)Chart: ''Auto Sales in May''ANNUAL SELLING RATEFor cars and light trucks (includes minivans, sport utility vehicles and pickups) sold in the United States.Graph tracks the annual selling rate for light trucks and cars from Nov. 2003 - May 2004.INDUSTRY SALESFor vehicles sold in the United States.Cars2004: 742,8992003: 726,840CHANGE*: +6.14%Light trucks2004: 883,3512003: 846,674CHANGE*: +8.34Total2004: 1,626,2502003: 1,573,514CHANGE*: +7.33CAR SALESLeading U.S. sellers, ranked according to 2003 sales.G.M.NUMBER SOLD: 169,264CHANGE: -0.9%MARKET SHARE: 22.8%Ford+NUMBER SOLD: 107,198CHANGE: -1.2MARKET SHARE: 14.4ToyotaNUMBER SOLD: 110,762CHANGE: +11.6MARKET SHARE: 14.9HondaNUMBER SOLD: 93,887CHANGE: +23.6MARKET SHARE: 12.6Daimler-Chrysler$SNUMBER SOLD: 66,460CHANGE: -1.9MARKET SHARE: 9.0NissanNUMBER SOLD: 48,592CHANGE: +7.7MARKET SHARE: 6.5TOP-SELLING VEHICLESThe most popular vehicles and changes from a year earlier.Ford F-SeriesNUMBER SOLD: 78,847CHANGE: +8.3%Chevrolet SilveradoNUMBER SOLD: 63,029CHANGE: +3.3Toyota CamryNUMBER SOLD: 45,375CHANGE: +7.8Honda AccordNUMBER SOLD: 43,589CHANGE: +21.7Dodge RamNUMBER SOLD: 42,635CHANGE: +0.5Toyota CorollaNUMBER SOLD: 36,894CHANGE: +6.6Honda CivicNUMBER SOLD: 35,608CHANGE: +26.9Ford ExplorerNUMBER SOLD: 30,165CHANGE: -11.6Ford FocusNUMBER SOLD: 29,898CHANGE: +37.2Dodge CaravanNUMBER SOLD: 25,695CHANGE: +11.8Ford TaurusNUMBER SOLD: 24,787CHANGE: -1.5Chevrolet ImpalaNUMBER SOLD: 24,757CHANGE: -12.3LIGHT TRUCK SALESLeading U.S. sellers, ranked according to 2003 sales.G.M.NUMBER SOLD: 273,591CHANGE: +11.7MARKET SHARE: 31.0%Ford+NUMBER SOLD: 204,918CHANGE: +0.8MARKET SHARE: 23.2Daimler-Chrysler$SNUMBER SOLD: 171,813CHANGE: +7.3MARKET SHARE: 19.5ToyotaNUMBER SOLD: 91,658CHANGE: +13.8MARKET SHARE: 10.4HondaNUMBER SOLD: 49,306CHANGE: -0.8MARKET SHARE: 5.6NissanNUMBER SOLD: 39,149CHANGE: +68.3MARKET SHARE: 4.4*Based on average daily sales, including fleet sales, adjusted for any differences in the number of selling days in a month. +Includes Volvo and Land Rover sales. $SIncludes Mercedes-Benz sales.(Source by Ward's AutoInfoBank) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); SALES REBATES (90%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (79%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); TRENDS (76%); MARKET SHARE (76%); EXECUTIVES (69%) Automobiles; Sales; Utility Vehicles and Other Light Trucks ; Rebates; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Automobiles

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (58%); J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (57%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (56%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Power, J D, & Associates; General Motors Corp

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (58%); F (NYSE) (58%); TYT (LSE) (56%); TM (NYSE) (56%); 7203 (TSE) (56%); GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%)

PERSON: Danny Hakim

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2004



41 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1204 words

HEADLINE: Trade Theory vs. Used Clothes in Africa

BYLINE: By CARTER DOUGHERTY

DATELINE: KAMPALA, Uganda 

 BODY:
Today's globalized economy boasts few unrepentant protectionists, but Eyasu Sirak does not deal in gentle euphemisms of ''fair trade'' or ''level playing fields.'' He wants his government to ban imports of used clothing simply so he can sell more apparel and make more money.
 His business, Eladam Enterprises, makes safari suits and police and army uniforms, which he sells out of a small shop in downtown Kampala. But Mr. Sirak looks longingly at Ugandans who buy their clothing at bustling markets stocked with European and American castoffs. 
 ''As long as these clothes are here,'' he insists, ''no textile industry can survive.''
 The rich world's hand-me-downs offer visitors some of Africa's more peculiar sights. One afternoon in Kampala, Uganda's lively, diesel-fume-laden capital, a young man wore a black T-shirt that boasted: ''I am what you fear the most: United States Marine.'' Another proclaimed its owner's allegiance to the ''Watkins Warriors,'' presumably some small-town sports team.
 The scene repeats itself in towns and villages across Africa, from Mozambique in the south to Mali in the north, thanks to donated clothing from the West that is sold by the charitable entities that receive it to exporters, pressed into bales and shipped to Africa. Though it starts as charity, the declared value of American secondhand clothing exported to Africa was $59.3 million in 2002, according to the International Trade Commission. 
 About $2.3 million of that went to Uganda, where mivumba, as used clothing is known in the Luganda language, accounts for about 81 percent of garment purchases, according to the Uganda Manufacturers Association.
 Yet Mr. Sirak's proposal -- banning mivumba -- falls on incredulous ears in much of Kampala. Importers and consumers of used garments, who far outnumber the manufacturers, have castigated the idea of an import ban, giving rise to a lively debate about whether domestic industries should get a helping hand before facing international competition.
 The old arguments for protective tariffs retain some intellectual currency, said Gary Hufbauer of the Washington-based Institute for International Economics. But he said they usually masked a desire to charge more to consumers who would otherwise have access to cheaper imported goods.
 ''Protection might create a local industry that can compete in world markets, and the subsequent gains might be large enough to pay back the costs incurred on account of the protection,'' Mr. Hufbauer said. ''In practice, however, not more than one case in 10 meets these two conditions.''
 American policy here has been against trade barriers. The Africa Growth and Opportunity Act, passed in 2000, seeks to integrate the continent into the world economy. By offering easy access to the American market, the act preaches growth through exports, not through national self-sufficiency, and accounted for $1.2 billion in apparel exports from Africa in 2003, according to the Commerce Department.
 Washington has little sympathy for banning secondhand imports, and contends that new and used clothing appeal to very different consumers. ''The reason this market is so huge is because most people live on a dollar a day,'' said a United States trade official.
 South Africa, the continent's economic powerhouse, has thrown its lot in with protectionists. Bowing to pressure from local manufacturers and labor unions, its government cut off imports of used clothing in 1999. Nigeria, Ethiopia and Eritrea have imposed their own prohibitions, while Kenya has flirted with a ban.
 ''The scourge of secondhand clothes from the United States and Europe deprives us of jobs and food on the table for the family,'' said Brian Brink, executive director of the South African Textile Federation.
 But Mr. Hufbauer's skepticism of trade restrictions resonates at the Owino market in Kampala. 
 Covering 25 acres, the bazaar, one of the largest of its kind in Africa, thrives on the mivumba trade, but includes many other products, like the dried fish that give Owino its distinctive odor. The densely packed clusters of stalls with corrugated metal roofs attract enough backpacking vagabonds to merit mention in the popular Lonely Planet guide for the region.
 Owino testifies to the mivumba industry's sophistication. Traders open bales of garments each morning, grade them into three categories, and ship the lowest-quality items to impoverished villages in the countryside. On a good day, retailers move enough clothing to fill a 40-foot shipping container, and Godfrey Kayongo, who runs a wholesale business in secondhand clothing, estimates that Owino employs 50,000 people.
 ''Let the clothing industries produce alongside mivumba,'' he said. ''If people choose them, then that's fine.''
 Mr. Kayongo pours scorn on manufacturers who seek a ban on the garments, ostensibly to build a Ugandan industry. They often import used machinery for their factories, he points out, and drive used cars from abroad.
 ''This is not patriotism,'' he snorted. ''It is hypocrisy.''
 The Ugandan government has so far equivocated in the battle over mivumba. In 2003, it raised the import duty on mivumba from 10 to 15 percent, but has held steady since. Regulators have announced a ban on used undergarments, which will put an end to at least one sector of the market. 
 Aggrey Awori, a member of Parliament who represents a cotton-growing constituency in Uganda near Lake Victoria, is pushing a three-year phase-out of mivumba, a plan he calls ''a way of phasing out the culture of used clothing.''
 And Charlotte Kukunda, an official with the Ugandan Manufacturers Association, said: ''The secondhand sector employs enough people to make this a chicken-and-egg question. Who should government policy work for?''
 Yet Ms. Kukunda's secondhand white synthetic blouse showed mivumba's enduring appeal. She paid 5,000 Ugandan shillings -- about $2.50. A new one would cost four times that.
 Little hard evidence exists to answer the question of whether secondhand imports actually lead to the demise of local industries. 
 In 1997, Texaid, a Swiss-based association of charities that deal in secondhand garments, studied the market for used clothing in Ghana and concluded that it complemented, rather than displaced, the indigenous industry, which dealt mostly in traditional African fabrics, like Ghana's well-known kente cloth. But Ghanaian companies still complain that used clothing boxes them out of their own market.
 In Uganda, few would pin the absence of a domestic clothing industry purely on economics. The country's turbulent politics, notably Idi Amin's cruel dictatorship in the 1970's, undoubtedly fostered a steep economic decline. 
 But Mr. Sirak still yearns for the days of old. Through the early 1970's, cotton plantations set up by British colonialists on the banks of the Nile formed the backbone of Uganda's economy. First they produced high-quality cloth, then manufactured garments. But a decade of political strife flattened them all, and in the late 1980's, as calm returned, mivumba arrived.
 ''This beautiful industry has gone,'' Mr. Sirak said with a wistful sigh. ''In its place have come'' -- he spits out the words venomously -- ''secondhand clothes.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Shoppers at Owino Market in the Ugandan capital of Kampala can buy secondhand American clothing for much less than new African goods, to the dismay of local clothing makers. (Photo by Stephen Shames/Polaris, for The New York Times)(pg. W1)
 Ugandans flock to a market in Kampala to buy cast-off American T-shirts. (Photo by Stephen Shames/Polaris, for The New York Times)(pg. W7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTECTIONISM (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); IMPORT CONTROLS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); APPAREL MFG (77%); CHARITIES (76%); TEXTILES (72%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (70%); SPORTS (51%); SPORTS & RECREATION (51%) Apparel; International Trade and World Market; Sales; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

ORGANIZATION: International Trade Commission (US)

PERSON: Carter Dougherty

GEOGRAPHIC: KAMPALA, UGANDA (96%) AFRICA (97%); UGANDA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); MALI (79%); EUROPE (79%); MOZAMBIQUE (79%) Africa; Uganda; Europe

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2004



42 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: Al Qaeda's Small Victories Add Up

BYLINE: By Anthony H. Cordesman. 
Anthony H. Cordesman is a senior fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Al Qaeda carried out its most successful attack since 9/11 last weekend, and much of that success was a result of the American reaction. It was the second time in a month that the terrorists struck at a soft target in Saudi Arabia's petroleum industry. Twenty-two people -- Saudis, an American and other foreigners -- lost their lives, and this is truly tragic. But in the grand scheme of things, it was a small-scale attack, and should not have been treated as more. The terrorists did not strike at the Saudi petroleum industry; not a barrel of export capacity was lost.
 The real target was the willingness of foreigners to stay in the country -- a direct blow at the economic underpinnings of Saudi Arabia and its ability to attract the investment it needs for reform. Al Qaeda was simultaneously attacking the Saudi regime and its efforts to modernize the country and rebuild ties to the United States. 
 Unfortunately, the official American reaction was to panic -- just as it was in early May when five Western contractors were killed. The United States did not call for new Saudi security efforts, offer aid in counterterrorism, or try to fight back. Instead, the American Embassy in Riyadh decided to forget about American investment and trade by calling for all Americans to leave the country. 
 This comes at a time of record high oil prices, in a country whose oil production is critical to the American and global economies and to every American business, and in a region with 60 percent of the world's proven oil reserves. All Persian Gulf countries have their own Islamist extremist cells. If Saudi Arabia proves vulnerable, they are next. Is it any wonder oil prices soared further this week -- if the Americans are going to cut and run whenever things get messy, why should oil traders have any faith in the continued supply?
 It is all very well to talk about a global war on terrorism. To win it, however, you have to fight it -- on every front. We know that by the time of the 9/11 attacks, 70,000 to 100,000 young men had been through some form of Islamist training camp, and that Al Qaeda had affiliates or some kind of tie to movements in more than 60 countries. In the years that have followed, the United States defeated the Taliban and Al Qaeda in Afghanistan, but failed to capture many of the leaders or secure the country, and has not completed the nation-building that could bring true victory. The dispersal of terrorists has destabilized western Pakistan, and the resulting political struggle has strengthened Islamists in the rest of the country and created a new regional threat.
 Yet instead of wrapping up that fight, Washington invaded Iraq. While getting rid of Saddam Hussein was wonderful for the Iraqi people, there is still no evidence that Iraq was ever a center of terrorism or had strong ties to Islamist extremists. As in Afghanistan, we failed to secure the country after our military success and have been far too slow to create a meaningful plan for nation-building. There is daily, violent evidence that the American invasion has bred a mix of Iraqi Islamists and foreign volunteers that is a growing threat. 
 The International Institute of Strategic Studies in London has estimates that Al Qaeda and its affiliates now have a strength of 18,000 men, many joining the movement as a result of the Afghan and Iraq conflicts. Some American intelligence experts on Iraq feel that the number of insurgents may still be growing faster than Coalition Provision Authority's military operations can reduce them. 
 What we need now is pragmatism, not ideology. It seems that the administration's neoconservatives have given up their dream of a broader Middle East initiative, which is a welcome sign of maturity. But this doesn't mean it is time to go on the defensive. 
 We must do everything we can to help the region's more moderate and friendly regimes -- the Saudis and others -- defeat terrorism and improve the protection of foreign workers and oil facilities. Equally important is stepping up aid and antiterrorism assistance to Pakistan. Yes, these fights have a military dimension -- but the primary struggle is political, ideological and economic. We can't win it by force or on the cheap. Victory will come only through strengthening local allies and reformers, not by trying to impose our own political values. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (93%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (91%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); WAR ON TERROR (79%); TALIBAN (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); COUNTERTERRORISM (74%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (65%); PRICE INCREASES (64%) Bombs and Explosives; Terrorism; United States International Relations; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (94%) Al Qaeda (Terrorist Group)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (52%) Anthony H Cordesman

GEOGRAPHIC: RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (78%) INDIAN OCEAN (79%) SAUDI ARABIA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (92%); GULF STATES (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); PAKISTAN (79%) Saudi Arabia; Saudi Arabia

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2004



43 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1275 words

HEADLINE: Saudi Attack Spurs More Workers to Pull Up Stakes

BYLINE: By NEIL MacFARQUHAR

DATELINE: KHOBAR, Saudi Arabia, June 2 

 BODY:
Jerry Johnston plans to leave the kingdom forever on Thursday morning, the gory terrorist attacks on a Western compound prompting him to end a 13-year career here. 
 He arrived in January 1991, when Iraqi Scud missiles slamming down on this oil hub along the Persian Gulf shook his residence. Neither that nor any of the later turbulent events prompted him to leave. Until Sunday. 
 The tipping point came when Mr. Johnston, a 59-year-old Texan, learned that three of the four terrorists who attacked the Oasis Residential Resorts and other Western targets in Khobar and killed 22 people had eluded capture. 
 The attackers managed to escape during a confused moment and shoot their way through the weakest checkpoint, guarded by just two police cars, a Saudi official said. They were long gone by the time commandos landed on the roof at dawn. 
 ''If they let them go, what does that tell every other possible terrorist?'' said Mr. Johnston, speaking by telephone from Jidda, where he said he was the sole Westerner working in an office block of the Saudi oil giant Aramco. ''I just don't feel comfortable right now. I don't even leave my compound anymore. What is the point of staying?'' 
 Expatriate life for the tens of thousands of Americans and other Westerners working here has long been about comfort. Sheltered from the harsher tenets of Wahhabi Islam by the high walls and hissing lawn sprinklers of their compounds-cum-country club, residents can usually pay off huge debts, put their children through college or build a retirement nest egg by settling here for a bit. 
 But in the past year, with terrorist attacks across the country claiming the lives of more than 75 people, the equation has begun to shift. Many expatriates are weighing the benefits of high salaries, good schools, great travel and exposure to the exotic against Al-Qaeda-inspired terrorists bent on killing Westerners.
 Reports of new violence are constant. On Wednesday, the United States Embassy in Riyadh said that two American military personnel working on a training project with the Saudi National Guard escaped with one slightly injured when their cars were shot at south of the city. 
 And the Interior Ministry announced that two suspects linked to the Khobar attacks, but not among the attackers, died in a shootout with security forces near the western city of Taif overnight.
 The militants' goal is to drive all infidels from Islam's birthplace, in the process wreaking economic damage that will bring down the ruling house of Saud.
 There is no question that, with every attack, the number of Westerners here shrinks, although the militants have not set off a general exodus. Statistics are hard to come by, but executives in many American and European companies said that dependents left in droves this week. 
 At the main school used by Americans outside the Aramco system, just 55 out of 260 students showed up Wednesday, an American businessman said. 
 The attacks are having a global impact, with oil prices jumping to a record $42 a barrel over jitters that the world's main oil-producing region is unstable. The Saudi government makes constant reassuring noises about its ability to maintain a steady oil supply. 
 ''There is a market illusion how much the kingdom is affected by foreign workers,'' said Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi on Wednesday, Reuters reported. ''It is part of the market illusion that if 10 foreign workers leave, the kingdom's production is affected.''
 He spoke on the eve of an OPEC meeting expected to lift production quotas in an attempt to slow rising prices. Analysts say the minister is correct, at least in the short term. The six million foreign laborers are overwhelmingly Asians. Some 35,000 Americans and 30,000 Britons live in the kingdom, most employed in the oil and finance sectors. If they all left at once, a highly unlikely prospect, Saudi Arabia could probably turn to skilled Asians or other nationalities. 
 ''You lose some know-how, but it would not have a direct impact on loading, production, things like that,'' said Roger Diwan, a managing director at PFC Energy. 
 The questions would arise over the long haul with the need to replace aging plants or find new oil, he said. American companies are on the leading edge in highly technical aspects of managing oil and gas reserves, exploring for new fields and constructing petrochemical plants. 
 If Iraq is any example, the threshold of violence people accept for fat salaries is high. Some expatriates here reached that threshold in the attack. 
 The wife of one senior British Army officer who lived in the Oasis compound heard bullets hissing past as she clambered up a ladder that her husband had bought as part of a contingency escape plan. 
 The couple made a run for it around 11 a.m., three hours after the attack started, when it was clear that there would be no immediate rescue operation for trapped residents. 
 ''They left us there for dead,'' said the woman, tears in her eyes as she remembered leaping off a 10-foot wall. ''They want to kill all Westerners,'' she said, before heading to her house to pack some belongings. 
 On the other end of the scale, a Japanese executive who hid on the floor of his villa through the attack moved back Tuesday. He figured security was better now, he said, fingering the bullet holes in his house, and the hotel was uncomfortable. 
 Security has become the prime concern. At perhaps the most closely guarded compound, residents negotiate four checkpoints to get home. 
 ''This is essentially a family-oriented maximum-security prison with barbed wire and security gates and the whole works,'' said Peter Wieck, the manager, asking that the compound not be named. ''People drive by enough fire power to stop an army and they ignore it.''
 Entering any compound is like landing on another planet. Women bike around in shorts -- not to mention drive cars, which is otherwise illegal in Saudi Arabia -- while children gambol across lawns and streets. The Muslim prayer call barely penetrates some compounds.
 Most compounds are self-contained hamlets with their own grocery stores, restaurants, pubs, extensive athletic facilities and beauty parlors. Some residents leave the cocoon only for the airport. But the constant grind is taking its toll, even if professionals can earn up to four times what they might at home. 
 Some stay because their presence here generates important trade and jobs in the United States. ''Most of us knew that this was a tumultuous area before we came,'' said David A. Cantrell, president of the 240-member American Business Association.
 Saudis still love to buy American when it comes to cars and household appliances, but that could change if Americans pulled out and their competitors stepped in, he said. 
 Diane Reed, a 47-year-old substitute teacher, does not want the terrorists to win, but it is a hard point to argue from her bed at Saad Specialist Hospital. On Saturday morning she heard a ruckus outside and went to her front door only to find it on fire. After dousing the flames, she discovered a bullet hole in the living room window. She called her husband at work to tell him she wanted to make a run for it. 
 The bullet struck her leg just before she reached the guard post at the end of the street. She crawled a few yards, then collapsed. A Dutch woman who was also fleeing dragged her to safety.
 Still, Mrs. Reed is torn about the decision to leave after eight years. 
 ''There is a quality of life that you miss out on if you don't take advantage of the culture here,'' she said. ''Psychologically it would be difficult for me to go right back and think nothing has happened.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Several countries sent teams to Saudi Arabia yesterday to investigate the killing last weekend of 22 expatriates by Islamic militants in Khobar.
 Maan al-Sanae, the owner of the Oasis Residential Resorts in Khobar, Saudi Arabia, took a look yesterday at the burned-out living room of a suite that had been occupied by an executive of the French oil company Total. (Photographs by Mohamed el-Dakhakhny for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (93%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); AL-QAEDA (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RELIGION (86%); SHOOTINGS (78%); TRENDS (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (72%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (72%); FOREIGN LABOR (70%); MOTOR VEHICLES (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); PERSONAL FINANCE (64%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); ARMED FORCES (50%) Terrorism; Foreign Labor; United States International Relations; Islam; Economic Conditions and Trends; Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (59%) Al Qaeda (Terrorist Group)

PERSON: Neil Macfarquhar

GEOGRAPHIC: RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (79%) INDIAN OCEAN (91%) SAUDI ARABIA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); GULF STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%) Saudi Arabia; Europe; Saudi Arabia

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2004



44 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1497 words

HEADLINE: Birth Parents Retaining a Voice In New York Foster Care Model

BYLINE: By LESLIE KAUFMAN

 BODY:
Kristal Johnson nestled deep into the sofa between her mother and her foster mother and listened to the two women laugh about how she used to try playing one against the other.
 There was the time when Kristal, now a poised 18-year-old, skipped chores at the home of her foster mother, Janet Stevens, and was told that she could not go to a party her boyfriend was having. 
 Naturally, Kristal, who was scheduled for a weekend visit to her mother, Bernadette Blount, tried to get a second opinion. But Ms. Stevens had already called ahead. ''She told me what had happened and asked me if I agreed with the punishment or if it was too harsh,'' Ms. Blount recalled. ''I said, 'Oh, no, you are right. I'll back you up.' '' 
 This scene of parental solidarity speaks to a minirevolution in foster care, one being led by New York City. Fifteen years ago, it would have been hard to find a place in the nation that encouraged foster parents and birth parents to meet, let alone talk. Child welfare literature commonly held that birth parents -- especially those like Ms. Blount, who admitted that she had beaten her daughter -- could be dangerous or might try to take their children. Moreover, it was dogma that children would adjust better to living with foster parents if the separation from the birth home was swift and total.
 But in 1998, New York was among the first cities to adopt an approach to foster care that actively nurtures open relationships between foster and birth parents. 
 In this model, which takes a page from the latest thinking in divorce custody cases, not only do the birth parents know where the foster parents live, they share in the decision making on everything from discipline to breakfast cereal.
 In the best cases, like that of Ms. Stevens and Ms. Blount, the foster parent remains a source of support and counsel after the child returns to the birth parent, as most do.
 Now after six years, with some 28,000 families having participated in the program, the city's departing commissioner of children's services points to the growth of the program as among the achievements he is most proud of. ''For many parents, it has demystified foster care,'' said the commissioner, William C. Bell, who will step down in a few weeks. ''In surveys, parents report a much more positive experience with the system and their caseworkers. Children are returned home on average three months earlier.''
 The family-to-family strategy, as it is called, is considered so promising that it has already been adopted by 35 cities and counties in 16 states. And in July, Mr. Bell will become executive vice president of Casey Family Programs, a nonprofit Seattle group that develops and finances child welfare programs across the country, hoping to bring the model to the rest of the nation. ''We don't ever want a situation where a parent has a kid and doesn't know where they are placed,'' he said.
 Proponents of this intimate approach argue that it is urgent to expand it now, as a record 300,000 children a year are being taken into foster care across the nation, in part because of a 1997 federal law encouraging adoptions that urges states to remove children in potentially dangerous family circumstances.
 Because family to family increases contact between birth parents and children, they say, it improves the likelihood that the family will reunite. They say the program also helps birth parents who are never going to regain custody terminate their parental rights so their child can be adopted, because they are more confident that their child is going to a good home. Most important, they argue, it makes the separation less traumatic for children.
 But the program has its opponents, including cities that resist it because it requires significant funds for retraining social workers and foster parents, many of whom now see the birth parents as enemies.
 ''Foster families came to see themselves as saviors of the children,'' said John B. Mattingly, director of human services reform at the Annie E. Casey Foundation, a Baltimore philanthropy, which he led in pioneering the family-to-family concept. Many found it hard to become mentors for the adults they were taught to revile, he said, and with a nationwide shortage of foster parents, this resistance can scare localities from mandating relationships.
 New York has fought against this ingrained suspicion by training foster parents and the contract agencies that handle foster care in the city to accept the notion that almost all parents deserve to maintain contact with their children, no matter the reason they lost the child. The program is open to all parents on a voluntary basis, except when prohibited by order of a family court judge, and currently, the commissioner said, some 60 percent of the families who have a child in foster care have at least met the foster parent.
 ''We have to work really hard not to demonize the parents,'' said Mary Odom, who runs the foster parent program at St. Christopher-Ottilie, the city-contracted agency that works with Ms. Stevens. ''We have had a 6-month-old come in with gonorrhea of the mouth, so it is not easy. But it always turns out that it is cyclical. There are no bad people, just bad acts.''
 Ms. Blount, for example, lost Kristal and her three younger children to foster care in 1999, when Kristal came to school with golf-ball-size welts on her arms and shoulders. Ms. Blount had been beating her with a belt. Then an unemployed single mother of four at age 31, Ms. Blount says that she just lost control and needed help. Still, she was furious when the city decided to take her children into care instead of giving her support in her home.
 Her volatile anger at the city and at her children creates the type of circumstance that often leads parents to disobey court orders, alienate child-care workers and lose their children to foster care for additional years. But under the family-to-family system, Ms. Blount met with caseworkers and with the foster family to discuss the future of her children.
 At such conferences, the birth mother can exchange information with the foster mother in a controlled setting, explaining that her child sleeps with a nightlight and hates pizza or peanut butter. The mother can express preferences for church attendance or hair styles. She can also build a connection to her child's new caregiver, and vice versa. 
 ''I met Mama J.,'' Ms. Blount said of this first encounter with Ms. Stevens, ''and the first thing she said was, 'I don't want your children to live with me forever, so you figure out how to get them back.' It made me laugh, and it was such a relief, you know, that she did not want to take them from me.''
 These family team conferences are the official structure by which families meet, but within the discretion of the agency and foster parent, an informal relationship is also encouraged. Ms. Stevens gave Ms. Blount her phone number and address. During the year and a half that Ms. Stevens kept Kristal and her younger sister, Desirae (two younger boys stayed with Ms. Blount's mother), she and the two girls talked to Ms. Blount almost daily by phone. 
 And before Ms. Blount received visitation rights at her home, she traveled from the South Bronx to Ms. Stevens's apartment in Bushwick, Brooklyn, to cook dinners, braid her children's hair and just hang out.
 The relationship continued after the children went home. When Ms. Blount could not get them to clean up as they had in Ms. Stevens's apartment, she called for advice. ''Take away outside time with friends for the weekend,'' Ms. Stevens told her. ''That'll do it.'' And it did.
 Ms. Stevens also plays another pivotal role: when Ms. Blount feels she is losing control, she sends one or both of her daughters to their foster parent while she cools off. When Desirae threw a neighbor's cellphone out a window, in 2002, Ms. Stevens took her back for several months.
 The girls treat Ms. Stevens like family. Sometimes they call to complain about their mother and ask her to referee an argument. Sometimes they just go over to hang out and have dinner. Kristal refers to Ms. Stevens's daughter and a foster teenager staying in the home as sisters. They share Timberland shoes and gather in the kitchen to complain about Ms. Stevens's strictness.
 Of course, not every relationship is as smooth as theirs. Many of the foster care agencies around the city recount at least one instance where a drug-addled or mentally ill birth parent went to the foster home in the middle of the night and pounded on the door and made threats. But so far there have been no disasters.
 A much more common problem is that a drug-addicted parent does not visit much, if at all. But even sad situations have a bright side, Ms. Odom insists. ''It may help a parent to understand that they can't care for their child and that someone else can do a great job,'' she said. ''We terminate rights just as much now as before family-to-family. It is just easier for everyone this way.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Latonya Baskerville, left, with her son Tyshawn, who lived with Harold and Willa White for five months while she stopped using drugs. (Photo by Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)(pg. B10)
 For Kristal Johnson, center, and her mother, Bernadette Blount, right, Kristal's foster mother, Janet Stevens, has become a part of the family. (Photo by Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)(pg. A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOSTER CARE (92%); CHILDREN (90%); CHILD WELFARE (89%); PARENTS (89%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (78%); FAMILY (78%); FAMILY LAW (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (65%) Foster Care; Foster Care

PERSON: Leslie Kaufman; William C Bell

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2004



45 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 204 words

HEADLINE: Business Leaders Expect Job Gains

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
The nation's economy will generate steady employment gains this year, according to a survey by the Business Roundtable, an association of corporate leaders. 
 Eighty-eight percent of executives predicted sales would rise over the next six months, while 81 percent expected payrolls to increase or remain constant. 
It is the second consecutive quarter in which business leaders projected their companies would add jobs. 
 ''America's C.E.O.'s believe that the U.S. economy will continue to strengthen,'' Hank McKinnell, chief executive of Pfizer Inc. and the 150-member association's chairman, said in a statement. ''C.E.O.'s expect steady employment gains over the next six months.'' 
 ''Not only are the numbers trending upward, but the depth and breadth of hiring has also improved,'' Mr. McKinnell said in a conference call with reporters.
 The executives surveyed by the Business Roundtable expected gross domestic product to average about 3.7 percent this year, matching their March forecast. 
 The expanding economy prompted 38 percent of the executives to predict hiring would rise over the rest of 2004. Forty-three percent said they would not change their payrolls and 19 percent said they would reduce them. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); SALES PROJECTIONS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); CONFERENCE CALLS (52%) United States Economy; Labor; Hiring and Promotion; Gross Domestic Product; Sales

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (71%)

ORGANIZATION: BUSINESS ROUNDTABLE (93%) Business Roundtable

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (71%); PFEB (BRU) (71%); PFE (NYSE) (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (71%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (71%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (71%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2004



46 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; ORGANIZED; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1068 words

HEADLINE: Local 226, 'the Culinary,' Makes Las Vegas the Land of the Living Wage

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

DATELINE: LAS VEGAS 

 BODY:
Ask people here why Las Vegas is the nation's fastest-growing city, and they point to the thriving casino industry and to its ever-growing appetite for workers.
 But there is another, little understood force contributing to the allure of Las Vegas, a force often viewed as the casino industry's archnemesis. It is Culinary Local 226, also called the Culinary, the city's largest labor union, an unusual -- and unusually successful -- union that has done a spectacular job catapulting thousands of dishwashers, hotel maids and other unskilled workers into the middle class. 
 In most other cities, these workers live near the poverty line. But thanks in large part to the Culinary, in Las Vegas these workers often own homes and have Rolls-Royce health coverage, a solid pension plan and three weeks of vacation a year. 
 The Culinary's extraordinary success at delivering for its 48,000 members beckons newcomers from far and wide. By many measures, the Culinary is the nation's most successful union local; its membership has nearly tripled from 18,000 in the late 1980's, even as the rest of the labor movement has shrunk. The Culinary is such a force that one in 10 people here is covered by its health plan, and more than 90 percent of the hotel workers on the Strip belong to the union. The union is also unusual because it is a rainbow coalition, 65 percent nonwhite and 70 percent female. It includes immigrants from Central America, refugees from the Balkan wars and blacks from the Deep South. 
 The Culinary's success cannot be separated from the industry's wealth. With the profits rolling in, the casinos have decided to be relatively magnanimous to their workers to ensure labor peace and a happy work force.
 ''When you're in the service business, the first contact our guests have is with the guest-room attendants or the food and beverage servers, and if that person's unhappy, that comes across to the guests very quickly,'' said J. Terrence Lanni, chairman of the MGM Mirage, which owns the MGM Grand, the world's largest hotel, with 5,000 rooms and 8,200 employees. ''These are people who are generally happy. Is it perfect? No. But it's as good as I've seen anywhere.''
 Under the Culinary's master contract, waiters are guaranteed $10.14 an hour before tips, the highest rate in the nation. In Las Vegas, unionized hotel housekeepers generally earn $11.95 an hour, 50 percent more than in nonunion Reno. The Culinary contract guarantees workers 40 hours' pay each week, meaning housekeepers earn at least $478 a week, while in other cities housekeepers often work 30 hours and earn just $240. The Culinary's workers pay no premiums for health care, and they often pay just $10 for a dentist's visit, while nonunion workers often pay upwards of $150.
 ''Our wages are higher, the medical benefits are great, and we have a guaranteed 40-hour week,'' said Marianne Singer, a waitress at the unionized MGM Grand. ''Thanks to all that, I have a beautiful 2,000-square-foot home with a three-car garage.''
 The Culinary has struggled to shed a once-unsavory image. A half-century ago it worked closely with Bugsy Siegel and the other gangsters who built up Las Vegas. In 1977, its president, Al Bramlet, was found shot dead in the desert; some say the mob killed him because he opposed its efforts to take over the union.
 The Culinary owes its successes to war and peace: first a war that most of the hotel casinos waged against it in the 1980's, and more recently, a broad partnership with the industry. The main war was a two-month strike in 1984 in which 900 picketing workers were arrested. Many casinos wanted to break the Culinary, but the union managed to pressure most into signing a good contract. The Culinary was badly shaken by the dispute, with six hotels refusing to sign a contract and eliminating their union presence. To gird itself for future battles, the union revamped, bringing in veteran organizers and young activists who organized vigorous rank-and-file committees in each hotel. The union also began doing strategic research on the industry, striking fear into some gambling companies by warning Wall Street that the casinos had dangerously high debt levels and could not withstand a strike. 
 Still smarting from the 1984 dispute and seeing that the union was a formidable force, the casinos made a strategic shift toward peace and partnership. In 1989, Steve Wynn, who transformed Las Vegas with his grandiose theme hotels, signed a groundbreaking agreement with the Culinary when he opened the Mirage, famed for its white tigers and erupting volcano.
 Mr. Wynn vowed not to fight unionization, saying he would recognize the Culinary once a majority of the Mirage's workers signed cards saying they favored a union. In return, the Culinary gave Mr. Wynn two things he wanted. It rewrote archaic contractual language to whittle 134 job classifications down to 30. The union also pledged to use organized labor's lobbying clout to advance the industry's interests. Caesars Palace, Bally's, Circus Circus and other casinos soon signed similar labor agreements. 
 ''The last thing you want is for people who are coming to enjoy themselves to see pickets and unhappy workers blocking driveways,'' Mr. Lanni said. ''I swore then that we would never have such problems again.'' 
 Except for a few strikes at small casinos, the 1989 accords have ushered in 15 years of cooperation and prosperity. Management and union have worked hand in hand to improve service and to press the city's hospitals and doctors to hold down costs, saving the industry millions each year.
 Twenty-four casinos help finance the Culinary Training Academy, hailed by many experts as the industry's finest job-training school. It teaches 2,500 students a year to step up to jobs as waiters, cooks or even sommeliers. Courses are free to members of the union, while the unemployed can take courses with federal or state grants.
 Steven Horsford, the academy's executive director, said the industry's needs for trained workers were so great that the academy would double its capacity to 5,000 students a year by 2006. 
 ''In Las Vegas, more so than any place in the country, the hospitality industry and the union have realized it is not mere rhetoric to say, 'We're all in this together,''' said John W. Wilhelm, president of the Culinary's parent union, the Hotel Employees and Restaurant Employees International Union.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Unionized housekeepers clocking out at the MGM Grand. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASINOS (92%); LABOR UNIONS (91%); LIVING WAGE (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); HOTEL STAFF (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); HOTEL HOUSEKEEPING (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (88%); TRENDS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (77%); RESTAURANTS (75%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (73%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (73%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (73%); REFUGEES (70%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (69%); IMMIGRATION (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (54%) Gambling; Labor; Surveys and Series; Restaurants; Hispanic-Americans; Women; Immigration and Refugees; Wages and Salaries; Fringe Benefits; Gambling; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Casinos ; Social Conditions and Trends; Hotels and Motels

COMPANY: MGM RESORTS INTERNATIONAL (81%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL RAINBOW COALITION (54%) Culinary Workers Union

TICKER: MGM (NYSE) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (81%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (81%)

PERSON: J TERRENCE LANNI (50%) Steven Greenhouse

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (95%) NEVADA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) Las Vegas (Nev)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2004



47 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 916 words

HEADLINE: For Latin American Airlines, Shifting to Fit Times

BYLINE: By JUAN FORERO

DATELINE: CARACAS, Venezuela, June 2 

 BODY:
The announcement this week that a Brazilian investor would probably but Avianca Airlines of Colombia highlights a growing trend in Latin American -- the reinvention of airlines into sleeker, no-frills carriers and the consolidation of weaker airlines with financially stable carriers intent on becoming regional powers.
 Aerovias Nacionales de Colombia, better known as Avianca, said on Tuesday that its board had chosen an offer by the owner of OceanAir of Brazil to take over its financially troubled operations.
 If the offer is approved by a Federal Bankruptcy Court in New York, where Avianca filed for protection last year, the investor, German Efromovich, would control 75 percent of an airline that is entrenched in the Andes and strategically situated to serve North America.
 Mr. Efromovich and his Grupo Sinergy conglomerate hope to use Avianca to offer expanded services to Brazilians traveling from the northern half of that country, from cities like Recife and Salvador, to international destinations like New York. Travelers in that swath of Brazil now have to divert south to big airports in Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro before heading north. 
 Mr. Efromovich would take control of a company that offers 300 flights a day, including service to Kennedy International Airport in New York and to Madrid and some of the largest cities in the Andes, including Caracas, Venezuela, and Lima, Peru. Avianca's assets would also help OceanAir -- a domestic carrier serving 39 Brazilian cities -- to extend its reach inside Latin America's largest country while offering the possibility of connections between Bogota, Colombia, and important regional cities like Manaus, Brazil, in the Amazon.
 ''There is a huge market north of Rio,'' said Bobby Booth, an aviation analyst in Miami and publisher of the newsletter, AVNews. ''OceanAir is flying domestically in Brazil. He'd like to see Avianca come in, and he'd like to build on the connections Oce-anAir can bring.''
 Avianca's board, in a statement on Tuesday, said it had chosen to go with the offer from Mr. Efromovich after considering a bid made in April by Continental Airlines and its Panamanian partner, Copa Airlines. Mr. Efromovich is offering to inject $64 million into Avianca and assume its $300 million debt.
 Continental's offer remains secret, but Avianca said the bid made by it and Copa was subject to ''multiple conditions,'' one of them being that Copa would have to obtain a $50 million loan to pay Avianca's pension costs. 
 Still, Avianca's reorganization plan allows Continental and Copa to improve their bid. The court in New York has given Avianca until June 11 to file its reorganization plan, though Avianca is asking for an extension.
 Avianca is one of the most recognizable names in Latin American air travel, but it has had little choice but to team with a stronger carrier. Whether it be Continental or Mr. Efromovich, it has long been clear that Avianca's merging with another airline was a foregone conclusion and part of a larger Latin American trend that has recently brought about increases in alliances and takeovers, and the emergence of cost-effective airlines looking to follow the model perfected by Southwest Airlines in the United States.
 Economic turmoil, high fuel costs and a steep downturn in passengers since the Sept. 11 attacks on the United States have hobbled and even closed airlines across Latin America. The few that have benefited have cut costs, have found niche markets like hauling cargo and have expanded beyond borders and the constraints of small economies.
 ''They have found ways of accommodating themselves and making things work,'' said Tom Hansson, an airline analyst in Los Angeles with Booz Allen Hamilton, a global management consultant. ''Airline operations need to cover more than one country.''
 Among the airlines that have done well is Copa, which has used its partnership with one of the world's largest carriers, Continental, to expand service to 20 countries. In Argentina, Aerolineas Argentinas says that it plans a five-year, $557.8 million upgrade of its fleet, leasing 49 used aircraft made by Boeing in a deal made affordable by the company's $44 million in profits last year.
 In Central America, Grupo Taca has continued to grow since 1997 when it united five small airlines from Costa Rica, El Salvador, Honduras, Guatemala and Nicaragua to serve a number of Latin American cities, as well as points in the United States like San Jose, Calif., and Miami. The April 26 murder of Grupo Taca's longtime chief executive, Federico Bloch, outside of San Salvador, where the company is based, is not expected to slow the company's long-term expansion plans, including its recent foray into South America, analysts said.
 In South America, LanChile has become Latin America's most successful airline, in part, by establishing subsidiaries in Peru, Ecuador and the Dominican Republic and using the increasingly well-known Lan brand name. LanChile reported profits of $48.1 million in the first quarter of 2004.
 In one of its biggest markets, Peru, LanChile has cut into the market share once enjoyed by the low-cost Peruvian carrier, AeroContinente.
 AeroContinente has already been hit hard this year by a strike, a Federal Aviation Administration ban on AeroContinente flights to the United States for ''significant safety issues,'' and investigations into drug trafficking accusations against the airline's operators, the Zevallos family of Lima.


GRAPHIC: Photo: German Efromovich, the investor, would control 75 percent of Avianca if an offer is approved by a Federal Bankruptcy Court in New York. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); AIRPORTS (90%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); DIVESTITURES (75%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (73%); APPROVALS (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (70%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (68%) Airlines and Airplanes; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Industry Profiles; Airlines and Airplanes

COMPANY: UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (74%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); AEROVIAS DEL CONTINENTE AMERICANO SA (58%); OCEANAIR LINHAS AEREAS LTDA (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Aerovias Nacionales De Colombia (Avianca); Grupo Sinergy; OceanAir

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (74%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (74%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (74%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (74%)

PERSON: Juan Forero; German Efromovich

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (79%); BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (58%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (58%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); ANDES (73%) BRAZIL (99%); LATIN AMERICA (96%); COLOMBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); PERU (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) Brazil; Colombia; Latin America; New York City

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2004



48 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Economic Scene; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 950 words

HEADLINE: Currency exchange rates matter and will play a prominent role in determining the kind of recovery the U.S. economy experiences.

BYLINE: By Hal R. Varian. 
Hal R. Varian is a professor of business, economics and information management at the University of California, Berkeley.

 BODY:
IMAGINE living in a world where you had to have yen to buy a TV, renminbi to buy toys, and dollars to buy food. Think how complicated life would be.
 Surprise. That's the world we live in. Most TV's we buy are manufactured in Japan, most toys come from China, and most of our food is produced in the United States. And by and large, the workers who produce those goods want to be paid in their domestic currency. 
 Luckily, this complexity is hidden from consumers; those nice currency traders handle all the grungy details. When you buy an imported TV with your hard-earned dollars, those dollars are exchanged for yen somewhere along the way to pay the Japanese workers who built the TV.
 How is that exchange rate determined? The basic force is good old supply and demand. If the demand for yen exceeds the supply at the current exchange rate, the cost of yen in terms of dollars will rise, and if supply exceeds demand, it will fall.
 If the only reason to buy foreign currency was to use it to purchase foreign goods, international exchange would be pretty simple. Luckily for economists, the story is more complex. 
 People also want to acquire foreign currency to make investments. If America's interest rates are higher than Japan's, then Japanese investors will want to buy our bonds to take advantage of those higher rates. But to do so, they must first sell yen and buy dollars. This is where things get tricky.
 Eventually, those Japanese investors will want to end up with yen. So they will care about not only the current interest rates on American bonds, but also the likely movement of exchange rates in the future.
 What matters to them is the expected return denominated in yen, which involves both the rate of interest and the expected movement in exchange rates. This means the demand for yen will depend not only on the current exchange rate, but also on anticipations of future exchange rate movements.
 The demand for currency to support international trade is pretty predictable, since the short-term trade patterns are reasonably predictable. It's the speculative demand that causes most of the short-term fluctuations, since foreign exchange traders have to make guesses about the future, and those guesses are constantly being revised.
 As foreign exchange speculators change their views about the future, their demand for currency changes, resulting in exchange rate fluctuations.
 On top of all this, central banks also intervene in foreign exchange markets for reasons that can be quite different from those of the other participants.
 The Bank of Japan could easily decide to sell yen on the foreign exchange market. This would push down the value of yen, making Japanese goods cheaper in dollar terms.
 Why would the Bank of Japan want the yen to be cheap? Well, cheap yen translate into cheap TV's and Toyotas, which means Americans keep buying those products and Japanese factories keep humming along. Japan (or any other country that depends heavily on exports) wants a cheap currency to keep its citizens employed.
 In the last two years, the United States has had abnormally low interest rates. A result has been that demand for dollars has weakened, making yen more costly, thereby raising the price and reducing sales of those imported TV's.
 Naturally enough, the Bank of Japan didn't want to see domestic unemployment go up, so it sold yen, keeping the currency lower than it otherwise would have been. The dollars received in exchange were used to buy Treasury bonds, with the Japanese accumulating $577 billion as of the end of January 2004. This huge currency intervention has received little attention in the popular press.
 And it wasn't just Japan. The Taiwanese and the Chinese also bought United States Treasury bonds, trying to keep their currencies from appreciating against the dollar. This kept the dollar price of their exports low and kept their factories operating.
 But now what happens? The Japanese economy seems at last to be recovering, and the Chinese economy is overheating. This suggests that these two financial powerhouses will cut back on their purchases of dollars, pushing the value of the dollar down relative to their own currencies.
 On the other hand, American interest rates are also increasing. As the economy recovers, the Fed will push rates up, making United States bonds more attractive, which will tend to push the value of the dollar up.
 Which effect will dominate? Will the dollar go up or down in the coming months?
 Anyone who can answer that question with certainty would be a wealthy man. But lots of people -- including wealthy men like Warren E. Buffett -- are betting against the dollar.
 Many experts think the foreign exchange interventions of the last two years have maintained the dollar's value at an unnaturally high level. As evidence, they point to the ballooning trade deficit and the hubbub over outsourcing and ''predatory trade practices.'' If foreign goods and services look cheap, the dollar is probably overvalued.
 Maybe it is. But by how much? And if it is overvalued, how rapidly will it fall? In the rosy scenario, the dollar has a steady decline against the renminbi and the yen; the Chinese economy has a soft landing; the Japanese recovery persists; and the American economy has a healthy recovery.
 Then there's the other scenario. The dollar drops precipitously; prices of imported goods shoot up here, rekindling inflation; the Japanese economy drops back into the doldrums; and unemployed Chinese workers riot in the streets.
 Needless to say, a lot hinges on which scenario materializes. Keep your eye on those exchange rates. They have a lot to do with America's recovery and the health of the world economy.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The overheating of the Chinese economy suggests that Beijing will cut back on its purchases of dollars, pushing the value of the dollar down relative to China's currency. (Photo by European Pressphoto Agency) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (92%); EXCHANGE RATES (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); JAPANESE YEN (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); INTEREST RATES (88%); US DOLLAR (78%); TRENDS (72%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%) United States Economy; Currency; Economic Conditions and Trends

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (50%)

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (50%)

PERSON: Hal R Varian

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (72%) UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (95%); CHINA (94%) China

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2004



49 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 2112 words

HEADLINE: Crossing the Border Into the Middle Class

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

DATELINE: LAS VEGAS 

 BODY:
Here are a few of the startling, improbable, only-in-Vegas apparitions that can be seen in and around Las Vegas Boulevard South, also known as the Strip: an ersatz Eiffel Tower. A Venetian palace. A miniature Brooklyn Bridge. An Egyptian pyramid that, once darkness falls, sends a towering shaft of light into the black desert sky.
 Here is another: a petite woman with a jet-black ponytail driving to and from the pyramid in a white Dodge Ram pickup.
 What makes this vision extraordinary is less what this woman looks like than who she is, how she got here and how well she reconciles a jumble of seeming contradictions in her hard but happy life. 
 She is Graciela Diaz: upwardly mobile waitress, Mexican immigrant soccer mom, middle-class striver, former undocumented sweatshop seamstress and now satisfied suburbanite, living with her husband and daughter in a two-story, four-bedroom stucco house with a two-car garage in a gated community north of town.
 Thanks to a relentlessly booming economy and an unusual collaboration between labor and industry, Las Vegas has become a paradise for people like Ms. Diaz: unskilled newcomers, many of them immigrants. In Las Vegas, unlike most other American cities, dishwashers, busboys, hotel housekeepers and hotel janitors can easily gain a foothold in the middle class.
 In Las Vegas, not only do these workers often obtain the emblems of middle-class life -- a house and a car or two, good health insurance and a pension -- but they have the opportunity to climb ever higher.
 For Ms. Diaz, 32, a native of Jalisco, Mexico, it is no easy matter juggling the life of a low-skilled immigrant with that of a suburban middle-class mom. Ms. Diaz, who works as a waitress at La Salsa, a Mexican restaurant in the giant Luxor hotel casino, is learning, for example, that it is impossible to be the perfect parent, always there for her 8-year-old daughter, Cecilia, as she struggles to grab her piece of the American dream. But after coming so far, she is not giving up.
 Until recently, Ms. Diaz was on the go seven days a week. Five days she bused tables at La Salsa, putting out tortilla chips and salsa, fetching drinks, removing dirty plates. 
 On Wednesdays and Thursdays, her days off, she took a six-hour-a-day course that would elevate her to waitress. For five months, she studied the fine points of the food server's trade, like how many pancakes are in a short stack and the difference between fettuccine and farfalle. She was enrolled at the Las Vegas Culinary Training Academy, which gives courses in jobs at all levels of the hospitality industry: grease-trap cleaner, hotel housekeeper, sommelier.
 ''I want to jump another step,'' Ms. Diaz said. ''I want things to be better for my family. I don't want my family to miss anything. That's why I sacrifice for.''

A Gilded Ladder
 The academy is the brainchild of an enlightened labor union and a hotel and restaurant industry that needs a well-trained work force. 
 ''Our union's goal and the training center's goal is you can come in as a non-English-speaking worker, come in as a low-level kitchen worker, and if you have the desire, you can leave as a gourmet food server, sous-chef or master sommelier,'' said D. Taylor, secretary-treasurer of Culinary Local 226, one of the nation's fastest-growing unions. ''We want to have a situation where the only limits are your own ambition.''
 With the food server's course now under her belt, Ms. Diaz has made an impressive leap in status and income. Busing tables, she made $500 a week, or $25,000 a year, but as a waitress, her wages and tips total about $20 an hour, or $40,000 a year. 
 Ms. Diaz is doing so well that her husband, Manuel, a burly six-foot construction worker, says he jokingly tells friends: ''She'll be earning so much that I'm going to be able to quit my job and take care of the house. So when she arrives home, there will be steaming food on the table.''
 Two years ago, the Diazes paid $125,000 for their house on Gold Sluice Avenue. Their gated community, called Sutter Creek, was built in the desert 10 miles north of downtown and is so new that none of its trees are taller than 12 feet.
 Mr. Diaz said they wanted a gated community because they were unhappy with their previous neighborhood. ''People from Mexico -- I call them paesanos -- were burning tires,'' he said. ''They played radios real loud. I was afraid of Cecilia playing outside, that someone would run her over. Here it's quiet and safe for her.''
 With a sheepish grin, Ms. Diaz said her parents could hardly believe how she lives. She and her husband have a 48-inch television, satellite dish, gleaming kitchen with track lighting, and his-and-hers pickup trucks. His is a dark green Ford 150 with a ''Bad Boy'' decal.
 Manuel and Graciela Diaz have come a long way since 1994, when they met in a Los Angeles sweatshop. She was a seamstress, he bundled garments, and they both earned about $30 a day, or $7,500 a year. 
 Smitten with Graciela's broad smile, lustrous hair and easygoing manner, Manuel, clinging to Mexican tradition, asked her parents for permission to date her. They refused, partly because he had once lived with another woman and partly because he was not exactly raking in money.
 But love trumped parental objections, and within a year, they were living together and Ms. Diaz was pregnant. With a baby on the way, they grew frustrated at their station in life, earning sweatshop wages and living in a rundown apartment.
 ''Everything is much harder in Los Angeles,'' Ms. Diaz said. ''The pay is bad, and everything is more expensive.''
 Mr. Diaz persuaded his wife to move to Las Vegas, lured by his sister's tales of riches there for the taking, and she wasn't referring to the baccarat or blackjack tables.
 In her admittedly imperfect English, Ms. Diaz acknowledged that her husband's hunch was right. ''When we came here and see the big changes -- the money, the benefits were good -- he says, 'We stay here,''' she said. ''In California, we never thought of buying a house. We couldn't buy many things. Here's it's more easy.''

No Rest for the Casino Builder
 Within days of arriving, Mr. Diaz took a job washing trucks. The pay was mediocre, the work unpleasant, so when he heard of a better-paying job removing asbestos, he took it. But after a week he began to realize just how dangerous that work was. 
 His brother-in-law then told him that workers were needed to build the Bellagio hotel casino, which the developer Steve Wynn envisioned as the zenith of Las Vegas opulence. Mr. Diaz landed a job there and joined the laborers' union. He did grunt work at first, carrying heavy construction materials; his large biceps and chest attest to hard work. His current job is on the latest Wynn dream project, a hotel casino intended to surpass the Bellagio. Now Mr. Diaz works more with his head than his hands, helping grade the land so plumbers and electricians can lay pipe and wire.
 ''They say Steve Wynn's new hotel will make the Bellagio look like a doghouse,'' he said, sounding like a major investor in the project.
 Mr. Diaz's pay is $23.66 an hour; with overtime, some years he earns more than $60,000.
 ''I get like 20 times more money than I made in Mexico,'' he said. 
 He sounded a little guilty about his immigrant success.
 ''We don't want to take nobody's place,'' he said. ''A lot of people born over here, they don't work so hard because they don't appreciate the opportunities they got. They didn't suffer crossing the border and all that stuff we put up with.''

From Mexico to the Strip
 Ms. Diaz certainly put up with a lot. After a brother in Los Angeles sent money, she and one of her sisters flew from Jalisco to Tijuana in 1991 to sneak into California. 
 ''It was the first day of the gulf war,'' she remembered. ''I call my mom, and she said, 'You have to come back because the war is starting. It's dangerous.''' 
 Ignoring that advice, Ms. Diaz and her sister took a taxi to the border, where they had arranged to meet a coyote, a smuggler who would lead them across. But no one showed up. The next day, they returned to the border before dawn. In a creek below them, Ms. Diaz thought she saw someone waving an arm, beckoning them across. 
 ''I see something, but it was just a cow moving the tail,'' she said, laughing uproariously. 
 Just as the coyote arrived, a Border Patrol helicopter appeared overhead.
 ''We try to hide, we waited one hour under some bushes,'' she said. ''It was real scary.''
 When the helicopter finally left, they sneaked across the border, and her brother arranged for a drive to Los Angeles.
 Ms. Diaz arrived illegally, but she eventually obtained a green card and citizenship through her father, who had been granted amnesty. For years, he had worked at a carwash in Los Angeles. Today, her whole family -- parents, two sisters and five brothers -- lives in Los Angeles.
 Once in Las Vegas, Ms. Diaz took a series of nonunion housekeeping jobs that she did not love, at a Best Western hotel, at Binion's Horseshoe Casino, and finally at the luxurious Venetian. 
 ''In the hotels, the hardest job is housekeeping,'' Ms. Diaz said. ''It's really hard when you come, and you don't know the language. You want to be somebody, but it's very hard.''
 Two years ago, Ms. Diaz learned from the wife of one of her husband's co-workers that there were unionized restaurant openings at the Luxor. Weary of making hotel beds and cleaning bathrooms, she landed a job busing tables at La Salsa. It paid $9.24 an hour, plus about $4 an hour in tips. The health plan was so good that she paid no premiums and made only modest co-payments. But Ms. Diaz had greater ambitions. 
 After she passed the Culinary Training Academy course, she was immediately promoted to waitress. Now she is responsible for a half-dozen tables in the ocher-colored restaurant, which has the music of a Mexican crooner piped in. She greets customers with her big smile and tentative English, often recommending her favorite dish, the fajita salad. 
 As her status at La Salsa has risen, so has her pay. Las Vegas's unionized busboys and waiters make the same base salary -- $10.14 an hour, the highest rate in the nation. (By comparison, most waiters in New York City make $3.30 an hour before tips.) But waiters make much more from tips than busboys, who must be content with the often-meager amounts that waiters share with them.
 Ms. Diaz worries that she has unwittingly become a role model to her 8-year-old. ''My daughter says, 'Mommy, let me have your apron,''' Ms. Diaz said. '''I'm going to play. I want to be a waitress. I want to be a waitress because you always have money.'
 ''I say, 'No, don't be like me,''' Ms. Diaz continued. ''My husband says to her, 'You have to learn and do everything the teacher says because one day you're going to be somebody.''' 
 The Diazes have big ambitions for their daughter: college and maybe law or architecture school. 
 Relaxing recently after a dinner of rice and chorizo, they boasted of her report card, which says, ''With her creative imagination and flair for details, Cecilia has become one of the class's favorite story writers.'' 
 Many days a neighbor picks up Cecilia from school because Ms. Diaz normally works from 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. But some days Mr. Diaz fetches her from an after-school arts-and-crafts program -- he usually works from 6 a.m. to 4 p.m.
 Ms. Diaz makes dinner before leaving for work so that her husband can reheat it after returning home.
 ''We help each other,'' he said. ''I can't push and say, 'I want this, I want that.' I know she works.''
 Poking fun at him, Ms. Diaz chimed in, ''Anyway, I'm the boss.''
 The affection and respect the two feel for each other are unmistakable. Now Ms. Diaz can joke about the thumb's down her father once gave her sweetheart.
 ''Now my daddy is proud about him,'' Ms. Diaz said, giving her husband an oversize girlish grin. ''My daddy loves him more than me. My parents look at him -- they say, 'He takes good care of our daughter.' They tell me, 'If you're doing good, it means he's doing good.' That's why my parents love him so much.''

AMERICAN DREAMERS
The Lure of Las Vegas
 Articles in this series are examining Las Vegas through the lives of a handful of the hundreds of thousands of people who have moved there in the last three decades. Tomorrow: the marketing of Las Vegas and brief portraits of six other seekers.

SUNDAY -- The Budget Suites
MONDAY -- Mrs. Noble
TUESDAY -- Judge Hardcastle
WEDNESDAY -- Trixie
TODAY -- Graciela Diaz
TOMORROW -- Billy V.

ON THE WEB -- Additional materials, including the articles and interviews with people featured in this series, can be found at nytimes.com/lasvegas.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Graciela Diaz at home in Las Vegas. ''I want to jump another step,'' Ms. Diaz said. ''That's why I sacrifice for.''
 The Diaz house in a gated community north of town. (Photographs by JIM WILSON/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); IMMIGRATION (88%); HOTEL STAFF (87%); HOTEL HOUSEKEEPING (87%); CASINOS (78%); RESTAURANTS (74%); GARMENT WORKERS (73%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (72%); LODGING (71%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (70%); CITY LIFE (67%); CITIES (67%); CULINARY SCHOOLS (62%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: LUXOR HOTEL (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (94%) NEVADA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2004



50 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 113 words

HEADLINE: National Briefing Washington: Report On Children

BYLINE: AP

 BODY:
Fewer American babies are dying, children are less likely to live in poverty, and fewer youngsters are dropping out of school than in the mid-1990's, according to the Annie E. Casey Foundation, a research and grant-making group that focuses on children, in its annual Kids Count report. From 1996 to 2001, improvements were reported in eight of the 10 indicators that the report uses to measure success. Thirty-five states and Washington D.C. improved on at least 6 out of 10 indicators. Despite the improvements, nearly one in six young adults, 3.8 million Americans from 18 to 24, was not enrolled in school, had no job and held no degree beyond a high school diploma in 2002.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (88%); HIGH SCHOOLS (88%); FOUNDATIONS (87%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); INFANT MORTALITY (73%); GRANTS & GIFTS (71%); TRENDS (71%) Children and Youth ; Education and Schools; Dropouts; Infant Mortality; United States Economy; Social Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: Casey, Annie E, Foundation

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2004



51 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: Republicans Ponder Not Adopting a Budget This Year

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 2 

 BODY:
They have tried sweet-talk and dire warnings, insults and bluffing tactics. None of it has worked, which is why a growing number of Republicans are beginning to despair about agreeing on a budget plan for next year.
 Embarrassing as that would be for the party that controls both houses of Congress, many Republicans are concluding they would be better off with no budget plan than with one that would require them to pay the cost of permanently extending last year's tax cuts.
 Senate Republican leaders, back from their Memorial Day recess, showed little sign on Wednesday of persuading a small band of rebels within their own party to drop their insistence on ''pay as you go'' rules. 
 The four Republican dissenters, joined by most Democrats, are demanding rules that would force Congress to pay the cost of any new tax cuts either with spending cuts or tax increases in other areas. 
 The impasse has already undermined President Bush's top domestic goal, which is to make the tax cuts permanent, and it will apparently postpone major budget decisions until after the elections.
 It has also exposed a rift over Republican priorities: Is it more important to cut taxes or to prevent the budget deficit from expanding beyond its current level of about $400 billion?
 The White House and House Republicans have staunchly opposed any such restrictions, because permanently extending Mr. Bush's tax cuts would cost about $1.7 trillion over the next 10 years.
 On Tuesday, Senate Republican staff members floated a possible compromise: If the Republican hold-outs would accept a budget framework negotiated with the House, the Republican leaders would support a separate pay-as-you-go rule that would only apply to the Senate.
 But that idea vanished before Republican leaders had even proposed it, apparently because some Senate Republicans viewed it as a capitulation to opponents of the tax cuts.
 ''I'm still working on a couple of ideas,'' said Senator Don Nickles, the Oklahoma Republican who is the chairman of the Senate Budget Committee. ''I'm going to invest some more time in this -- but not a lot.''
 And while some of the Republican holdouts said they were open to compromise, they were far from certain that one would be possible.
 ''It's closing the barn door after the cows are gone,'' said Senator John McCain of Arizona, one of the most vocal holdouts, dismissing the proposed budget resolution with a thumbs-down sign.
 In addition to Mr. McCain, the major Republican Senate holdouts are Senators Olympia J. Snowe and Susan Collins, both of Maine, and Lincoln Chafee of Rhode Island.
 ''I hope we can come up with a compromise,'' Ms. Collins said. ''But I feel very strongly that there needs to be real budget enforcement.''
 On Wednesday, two liberal policy research groups released a study estimating that the ultimate cost of the tax cuts would fall overwhelmingly on middle- and lower-income families.
 According to the study, by the Tax Policy Center and the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, more than three-quarters of all households would end up net losers if the government actually paid for the tax cuts by either spending cuts or other tax increases. 
 But the wealthiest one-fifth of families, who are by far the biggest beneficiaries of the tax cuts, would end up big winners.
 ''We should think of tax cuts as loans, not as grants, and in particular as loans that are not paid back by the same people who get them,'' said William G. Gale, a senior economist at the Tax Policy Center. 
 One Republican official said Congress could muddle through without a budget agreement. Democrats have already made it clear they will vote to extend at least temporarily three major tax cuts -- an expansion of the child tax credit, a reduction in the so-called ''marriage penalty'' for two-income families and an expansion of the 10-percent tax bracket to cover more middle-income taxpayers. 
 Failing to adopt a budget resolution would make it harder to prevent lawmakers from adding pet spending projects. It would also mean that any tax-cut extensions would fall under the Senate's normal debating rules, which require at least 60 votes before debate can be ended.
 But the biggest issue for Republicans may simply be the embarrassment of not being able to pass a basic budget plan even though they control both chambers of Congress and the White House.
 ''It's optics,'' said one Republican aide. ''The issue is, can the Republicans do the most basic of things, which is to pass a budget?''
 With elections just five months away, neither Democrats nor Republicans want to vote in favor of either tax increases or big budget cuts. But Democrats want to put obstacles in the way of future tax cuts while most Republicans simply want to leave the issue open until next year.
 ''It's true it would defer the decisions for a year, but at least it would get us through the year that we're in,'' said Senator Arlen Specter, a moderate Republican from Pennsylvania. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); APPROPRIATIONS (77%); NEW ISSUES (70%) Election Issues ; Taxation

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%); OLYMPIA SNOWE (77%); LINCOLN CHAFEE (77%) George W (Pres) Bush; Edmund L Andrews; John S (Sen) Mccain; Susan (Sen) Collins; Olympia J (Sen) Snowe; Lincoln (Sen) Chafee

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2004



52 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: North Korea's Drug Habit

BYLINE: By Victor Cha and Chris Hoffmeister. 
Victor Cha is a professor of government and Asian studies at Georgetown. Chris Hoffmeister is a recent graduate of Georgetown.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Reaction to last month's meeting between Junichiro Koizumi, the Japanese prime minister, and Kim Jong Il, the North Korean leader, was nothing short of underwhelming. Critics said Mr. Koizumi gave up too much -- millions in medical aid and thousands of tons of rice -- to secure the return of five children of Japanese citizens abducted by North Korea more than two decades ago. He also failed to obtain a definitive commitment from Mr. Kim to dismantle North Korea's nuclear weapons programs.
 The critics notwithstanding, Mr. Koizumi's diplomacy should be judged a success. The lesson the United States and Japan should learn from it is that moderate pressure on the North Korean regime works -- and can be used to limit the North's ambitions not only in weapons development but also in the drug trade. 
 After all, Japan has been pressing for the release of its citizens and their relatives since the day two years ago when Kim Jong Il admitted North Korea had kidnapped them. Yet it was not until Japan made clear it was prepared to curtail trade with the North -- cutting off financial remittances to the North, imposing an import ban on North Korean goods, banning Japanese ships from making North Korean ports of call -- that North Korea made any concessions.
 International commerce is clearly important to North Korea, and threats of trade sanctions obviously get the regime's attention. Yet there is an even better reason for the United States and Japan to employ this strategy: there is increasing evidence that in recent years North Korea has expanded its role as producer, shipper and trafficker of narcotics throughout East Asia and Southeast Asia.
 According to the Pacific Forum of the Center for Strategic and International Studies, Pyongyang has directed North Korean farmers to produce opium poppies since the late 1970's, with cultivation areas expanding exponentially in recent years. These farms are thought to produce as much as 40 tons of opium annually. Government-subsidized factories process the opium into heroin, which is then distributed through companies and diplomatic conduits. According to some sources, North Korea now ranks among the world's largest opium and heroin suppliers.
 Because the North Korean state is so secretive, it is difficult to prove any direct links between the regime and drug trafficking. But there is some evidence that the government may be taking over and enlarging the trade, as it has done in other areas of the North Korean economy. A 2003 report from the Congressional Research Service cited nearly 50 arrests or drug seizures involving North Koreans in more than 20 countries since the early 1990's, with at least 11 documented cases involving North Korean diplomats or intelligence agents. In the last five years, both Russian and German police have detained North Korean diplomats on counterfeiting or heroin smuggling charges. And between 1999 and 2001, more than one-third of all drug seizures by Japan and China were methamphetamines en route from North Korea. 
 This problem is likely to get worse. In part, this may be the unintended consequence of other diplomatic policies. The American-led Proliferation Security Initiative, for example, which began almost two years ago and aims to block trade in nuclear and other weapons, may have caused Kim Jong Il to rely on drug trafficking and counterfeiting to try to compensate for lost revenues. North Korea's foray into illicit activities has been further spurred by United States efforts at taking customers like Pakistan, Iraq, Yemen and Libya off North Korea's missile sales roster, which has cut the North's revenues in this area to one-tenth of their usual volume.
 As they continue their on-again, off-again diplomacy, the United States and Japan may find that North Korea's drug trade is a more visible component of the regime's threat. The good news, for the United States and its allies, is that the North's growing drug threat means that diplomacy aimed at eliminating its missile exports is working. The bad news, for North Korea, is that continued drug trafficking is not likely to be tolerated by the region.
 If it continues to increase its trade in drugs, North Korea is likely to become the eventual target of a regional initiative to restrict the drug trade -- which, in conjunction with the American-led curbs on its weapons trade, will put moderate yet deliberate pressure on North Korea. And if Japan's recent experience with abductees is any indication, such patient but comprehensive diplomacy may be the key to attaining Mr. Kim's flexibility on nuclear disarmament.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Hadley Hooper)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); HEROIN (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); OPIUM (89%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (88%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (88%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (79%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (76%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (76%); SMUGGLING (75%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (75%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (74%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (73%); RANKINGS (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%); IMPORT CONTROLS (66%); COUNTERFEITING (60%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (60%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (57%) Atomic Weapons; United States International Relations; Drug Abuse and Traffic; Missiles and Missile Defense Systems; Heroin; Opium

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (90%) Victor Cha; Chris Hoffmeister; Kim Jong Il

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%) KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (99%); JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%) North Korea; Japan; North Korea

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2004



53 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: Fed Suggests Past Won't Be a Guide For Its Moves

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 2 

 BODY:
If Alan Greenspan has his way, the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates much more slowly than in the past. The question is whether his hand will be forced by rising inflation. 
 Mr. Greenspan, the chairman of the Fed, noted in a May 14 letter to Senator Paul S. Sarbanes, Democrat of Maryland, that the central bank raised short-term rates fairly sharply when it moved to curb higher inflation in 1988 and 1994, and more modestly in 1999. The letter became available on Wednesday. 
 But Mr. Greenspan emphasized in the letter that the past is no guide to the future because consumer prices are climbing much more slowly today and are likely to continue to do so.
 Based on a tidal wave of data showing strong economic growth, a surge in job creation and new hints of inflation, most analysts predict that the Fed will start to raise rates at its policy meeting on June 29 and to keep raising rates gradually over the next year or so.
 Mr. Greenspan and other top monetary officials have made it clear since April that they will have to retreat from their policy of cheap money sooner rather than later, but they have also reassured investors by insisting that any rate increases would be gradual and ''measured.''
 But after four years in which rock-bottom interest rates have stoked a boom in home building and home refinancing, the big unanswered question is how far rates will have to rise before monetary policy becomes ''neutral,'' neither fueling inflation nor slowing down economic growth.
 ''The current highly accommodative stance of monetary policy must be returned to a more neutral setting,'' Mr. Greenspan acknowledged in his letter, which was a response to questions posed by Mr. Sarbanes at a hearing of the Senate Banking Committee last month. 
 However, he continued, ''The current backdrop of low inflation and underutilized resources suggests that the transition to a more neutral policy stance can be undertaken at a pace that is likely to be measured.'' 
 The current ''real'' federal funds rate for overnight loans between banks, adjusted for inflation, is actually below zero and is much lower than normal. Historically, the federal funds rate has averaged about 2.7 percentage points above the rate of inflation, and it rose much higher than that when the central bank was fighting back double digit inflation in the late 1970's.
 Mr. Greenspan and other top officials have repeatedly argued that inflation is likely to remain low for the foreseeable future, in part because unemployment remains relatively high at 5.6 percent and because productivity is still rising much more rapidly than in the past.
 But hints of faster inflation have been multiplying in the last two months, and a growing number of analysts worry that the central bank has been too slow to grasp their significance. Commodity prices, though somewhat lower in the last two months, have soared in the last year. Wholesale prices have been climbing more sharply than expected, and prices for many consumer goods have started to climb as well. For the first time in years, many business executives are saying they can pass higher energy and material costs through to consumers.
 Ian Shepherdson, chief United States economist at High Frequency Economics, a forecasting company, recently urged the Fed to raise the federal funds rate by half a percentage point at its next policy meeting, though analysts predict that the Fed will begin with a quarter-point increase and follow with a gradual series of increases over the next year.
 But William C. Poole, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, said in a recent interview that Mr. Greenspan was probably right to be fairly sanguine about inflation.
 ''We still have a margin of unused market capacity, and most observers believe there is still unemployment that needs to be absorbed,'' Mr. Poole said. ''I don't believe the markets feel we are behind. If they did, we would see a lot more signs of people anticipating higher inflation. I just don't see the evidence.''
 Fed officials acknowledge that the most important issue may not be inflation itself as much as people's inflationary expectations. The University of Michigan's April survey of consumers showed that they expect prices to rise 3.2 percent over the next, which is more than the Fed expects. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INFLATION (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); JOB CREATION (69%) United States Economy; Credit; Interest Rates; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Credit

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (92%); JOHN P SARBANES (77%) Alan (Chmn) Greenspan; Paul S (Sen) Sarbanes; Edmund L Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2004



54 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 419 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

Bush Contacts Lawyer About Inquiry Into Leak
 President Bush has contacted a private lawyer about representing him in a grand jury investigation into the disclosure of a C.I.A. undercover officer's identity, the White House said. The move surprised law enforcement officials and political figures. While some White House advisers have been the focus of speculation, Mr. Bush has not been seen as a potential target of the inquiry. PAGE A24

AMERICAN DREAMERS
The Lure of Las Vegas
 Thanks to a relentlessly booming economy and an unusual collaboration between labor and industry, Las Vegas has become a paradise for unskilled newcomers, many of them immigrants. In Las Vegas, unlike most other American cities, dishwashers, busboys, hotel housekeepers and hotel janitors can easily gain a foothold in the middle class.
 Not only do these workers often obtain the emblems of middle-class life -- a house and a car or two, good health insurance and a pension -- but they have the opportunity to climb ever higher.
 Graciela Diaz, for example, is an upwardly mobile waitress, a Mexican immigrant soccer mom, middle-class striver, former undocumented sweatshop seamstress and now satisfied suburbanite, who lives with her husband and daughter in a two-story, four-bedroom stucco house with a two-car garage in a gated community north of town. PAGE A22

Keepsakes of Hepburn
 The actress's personal items, including her self-portrait with Spencer Tracy, above, go on sale at Sotheby's next week. THE ARTS, PAGE E1

Saudi Attacks Spur Pullout By More American Workers
 American and other Western expatriates are weighing the benefits of paying off debts and putting children through college as well as the comforts of living in the desert kingdom against exposure to Al-Qaeda-inspired terrorists bent on murdering Westerners. Terrorist attacks have killed 75 people in the last year. PAGE A3

The Newest Potter
 Harry Potter and Daniel Radcliffe, the actor who plays him, have now entered adolescence. And they have a new director, Alfonso Cuaron, in the third film of the series. A. O. Scott reviews ''Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban.'' THE ARTS, PAGE E1

Eight Oppose Smarty Jones
 The unbeaten Smarty Jones, seeking to become the first Triple Crown winner since Affirmed in 1978, drew the far outside post position for the Belmont Stakes on Saturday. Listed as a prohibitive 2-5 favorite by the Belmont Park oddsmaker, he will face eight horses whose best chance seems to be second-place money. SPORTSTHURSDAY, PAGE D5


GRAPHIC: Photos (Photo by Sotheby's) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAWYERS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); TERRORISM (86%); HORSE RACING (84%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); SWEATSHOPS (77%); IMMIGRATION (74%); HOTEL STAFF (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); GRAND JURY (73%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (70%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (69%); CITY LIFE (69%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (69%); CITIES (69%); HOTEL HOUSEKEEPING (69%); AL-QAEDA (62%); MURDER (58%); HEALTH INSURANCE (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); DANIEL RADCLIFFE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2004



55 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 648 words

HEADLINE: Fiscal Shenanigans

 BODY:
President Bush appears to be planning to run for re-election as a tax cutter without discussing what federal programs will be sacrificed to make up for the lost revenue. That can't be allowed to happen. Voters have the right to see the whole picture, including the downside. Chances are they won't like the view. 
 While Mr. Bush has been out crowing about spending increases in some popular programs, his Office of Management and Budget was instructing federal departments to prepare to pare them down. In a May 19 memo that was first reported in The Washington Post, departments were told to trim domestic discretionary spending in 2006, the first complete fiscal year after the November election. And the administration recently submitted legislation to impose caps that would result in further reductions in every year after that through 2009. 
 According to estimates by the nonpartisan Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, the Office of Management and Budget guidelines translate into inflation-adjusted reductions in 2006 alone of about $925 million for Head Start and childhood education. That would come at a time when schools are already struggling to meet the demands of Mr. Bush's No Child Left Behind initiative without adequate resources. College financial aid, mainly Pell Grants, would take a $550 million hit -- at a time when lower-income students are dropping out of school because they cannot meet rapidly rising costs.
 The same projections show that veterans' medical care would be cut by $1.5 billion (after a planned $380 million cut in 2005). All told, under the proposed cuts, total funds for these and other affected programs -- like environmental protection, housing programs and nutrition aid for poor pregnant women and children -- would be $21 billion less in 2006 than today. By 2009, domestic discretionary spending, not counting homeland security, would be $45 billion below its current level and would be a smaller portion of the economy than it has been at any time since 1963.
 The budget-cutting exercise is undoubtedly inspired, at least in part, by complaints from conservatives about the enormous deficits being created by the White House's fiscal recklessness. They like the tax cuts, but want to match them with spending reductions. They have been demanding that the president start paring the budget, or at least demonstrate that he will be ready to do so after November.
 It's hard to imagine any realistic approach that would have the nation achieve fiscal responsibility with the tax cuts in place. First of all, even all of the proposed cuts in the memo would barely begin to make a dent in the annual deficits, which are likely to range from $300 billion to $400 billion for the rest of the decade. Second, although the fate of specific programs has not been decided, there is no way the administration can take a multibillion-dollar whack out of the relatively small budget for domestic discretionary programs -- a mere one-sixth of federal spending -- without hurting services that are both popular and desperately needed.
 Some of the staunchest tax-cut supporters in Congress are perfectly aware that the math doesn't work. They hope the accumulating pressure of the deficits will eventually force the federal government to go further and cut entitlement programs like Social Security, Medicaid and Medicare. Very few of them, however, are prepared to run for re-election on that plan.
 Currently, tax cuts since 2001 account for 17 times as much of the swing from surplus to deficit as do increases in domestic discretionary spending. No one who refuses to face up to the root cause of our fiscal problems should be permitted to seek public office without saying where the money will come from. Candidates who insist on keeping the Bush tax cuts -- whether they're running for Congress or the presidency itself -- have to show us the math. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); CHILDREN (87%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); GRANTS & GIFTS (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (74%); EDUCATION LAW (74%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (73%); CONSERVATISM (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (72%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (72%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (67%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (66%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (65%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (65%); NATIONAL SECURITY (62%) Editorials; Election Issues; Taxation

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (91%); CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (56%) Office of Management and Budget

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2004



56 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 536 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

GlaxoSmithKline Accused Of Hiding Drug Information
The New York State attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, sued GlaxoSmithKline for consumer fraud, charging the company with concealing negative information about its popular antidepressant medicine Paxil.
 The lawsuit contends that GlaxoSmithKline engaged in fraud by failing to tell physicians that studies of Paxil showed that the drug does not work in adolescents. [Page A1.]

Nortel May Revise Results Again
Shares of Nortel Networks fell after the company raised the possibility that it might again revise its 2003 financial statements. While seeking to reassure customers, investors and employees that its business is healthy, Nortel said in a statement that previous revisions of its statements for the last three years were subject to a number of ''important limitations,'' including work to be done on a detailed review of the second half of 2003. [C2.]

S.U.V. Sales Increased in May
The auto industry reported that May sales rose 7.3 percent from a year ago, as sales of sport utility vehicles were bolstered by average rebates of $3,477, an increase from $2,557 a vehicle a year earlier. [C8.]

Nominee Queried on Gasoline
At a confirmation hearing, Deborah P. Majoras, President Bush's choice to head the Federal Trade Commission, came under sharp questioning by two Democratic senators who said the agency had not done enough to prevent a steep rise in gas prices. [C8.]

HBO to Develop Situation Comedies
HBO named Tracy Katsky, the former head of comedy development at the Fox network, to run its internal production company, HBO Independent Productions, and to develop traditional half-hour videotaped comedies. [C6.]

Busch Increases Bid for Brewer
Anheuser-Busch offered 72 cents a share for all the shares of the Harbin Brewery Group of China that it does not already own, a third more than the 55 cents a share SABMiller offered last week. [World Business, Section W.]

Another Resignation at Viacom
Jonathan Dolgen, left, chairman of Viacom Entertainment division, resigned, one day after he was passed over in a major reshuffling of the company's top management. Mr. Dolgen's resignation was expected after Sumner M. Redstone, Viacom's chairman, announced on Tuesday that Mel Karmazin was leaving as president and would be replaced by Tom Freston, chairman of MTV Networks, and Les Moonves, the chairman of CBS. [C9.]

Adelphia Trial Nears an End
Lawyers for the founder of Adelphia Communications, John J. Rigas, and his son Michael wrapped up their case, while Michael C. Mulcahey, the former director of internal reporting, testified in his own defense. [C9.]

Blue Chips Climb; Nasdaq Falls
Blue-chip stocks rose with the Dow Jones industrial average gaining 60.32 points, to 10,262.97, and the S.&P. 500 index increasing 3.79 points, to 1,124.99. The Nasdaq composite index fell 1.79 points, to 1,988.98. [C9.]

Going Back to Being Private
The number of companies that have announced plans to go private has risen steadily since the passage of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Small Business. [C7.]

Currency Rates Matter
Keep your eye on currency exchange rates. They will have a lot to do with America's recovery and the health of the world economy. Hal R. Varian: Economic Scene. [C2.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,262.97 up 60.32Nasdaq composite -- 1,988.98 down 1.7910-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.74% up 0.04The euro -- $1.2226 down 0.0006The dollar -- 110.06 yen down 0.53Graph ''TODAY'' shows the percentage change in factory orders from Oct. 2003 - March 2004.April figures due at 10 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: -1.4%Graph tracks the share price of Nortel since last Wednesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); ANTIDEPRESSANTS (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); RESIGNATIONS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); BREWERIES (86%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (86%); PHARMACEUTICAL DRUG & DEVICES LITIGATION (79%); TESTIMONY (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); LAWYERS (75%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (71%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (69%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (68%); MOTOR VEHICLES (68%); OIL & GAS PRICES (66%); NETWORK TELEVISION (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (92%); NORTEL NETWORKS CORP (72%); INDEPENDENT PRODUCTIONS (54%); VIACOM INC (53%); SABMILLER PLC (53%); ANHEUSER-BUSCH COS INC (53%); TIME WARNER INC (51%); MTV NETWORKS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (55%)

TICKER: GSK (NYSE) (92%); GSK (LSE) (92%); BIOC (EGX) (92%); VIA (NASDAQ) (53%); SOSAB (JSE) (53%); SAB (LSE) (53%); TWX (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (92%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (54%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (54%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (53%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (53%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (53%); NAICS332431 METAL CAN MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS111199 ALL OTHER GRAIN FARMING (53%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (51%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (51%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (73%); LESLIE MOONVES (56%); SUMNER REDSTONE (50%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%); HEILONGJIANG, CHINA (56%) UNITED STATES (91%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2004



57 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 684 words

HEADLINE: Bush Nominee to Lead F.T.C. Is Questioned Intensely About Gasoline Prices

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 2 

 BODY:
Deborah P. Majoras, President Bush's choice to head the Federal Trade Commission, came under sharp questioning at a confirmation hearing on Wednesday by two Democratic senators who said the agency had not done enough to prevent a steep rise in gas prices.
 The senators, Ron Wyden of Oregon and Barbara Boxer of California, said that Ms. Majoras had failed to propose any meaningful change in the way the commission reviews oil company mergers and industry practices. They said this had contributed significantly to the recent run-up in prices at the pump, particularly on the West Coast. 
 The two senators also expressed frustration that the agency had not acted to stop the shutdown of a large refinery in Bakersfield, Calif., owned by the Royal Dutch/Shell Group. The shutdown, they said, could prompt more price increases.
 Ms. Majoras is a former senior antitrust lawyer at the Justice Department who returned to private practice this year. Prodded by the two senators to describe what steps she might take to reduce gas prices, she said that she would talk to experts at the commission and examine any further reductions in refining in the United States. She also said she would appoint a special energy counsel at the agency to monitor the industry's practices.
 ''There is no question that refining capacity is extremely tight in the United States today,'' she said. ''I would want to look for reasons refineries are being shut down. I also want to look at why companies are not starting new refineries.''
 The two Democrats were not satisfied with her answers. And, Ms. Majoras may have hurt her cause when she acknowledged that this year she had done legal work for the ChevronTexaco Corporation. Under ethics rules, that could preclude her from being involved in some regulatory matters at the agency.
 ''If you are going to do two things -- talk to experts and look at the industry in general -- that is business as usual,'' Senator Wyden said. ''She still can't tell me how she'll get this agency off the sidelines and in the fight to protect American consumers or even whether she can participate.''
 He said he would try to hold off any action on her nomination, although it is unclear whether he has enough support from his colleagues to block her selection. 
 Congressional officials said Wednesday that while a number of Democratic senators were privately skeptical of the appointment, they had not said so publicly because the administration has coupled her nomination with that of Jon D. Leibowitz to become an F.T.C. commissioner. 
 Mr. Leibowitz, a former Democratic senior staff official in the Senate, is the head of the legislative office of the Motion Picture Association of America.
 But the Congressional officials said that if rising gasoline prices become more of a political issue for the administration, Ms. Majoras could encounter growing problems in the Senate. 
 Last week, the General Accounting Office issued a report concluding that industry consolidation during the 1990's had contributed to higher wholesale gasoline prices in the United States -- as much as 7 cents a gallon in California. The report's methodology was sharply criticized by Timothy J. Muris, who is stepping down as chairman of the commission this summer.
 Under both gentle and hostile questioning, Ms. Majoras refused to take a position on the report's conclusions. 
 In a Senate questionnaire that she was required to fill out before the hearing, Ms. Majoras took a limited view of her role as a regulator.
 ''The free market, the hallmark of our strong economic system, greatly benefits consumers,'' she wrote. ''Accordingly, in general, I favor market forces over extensive government regulation. Regulation can be costly and provoke unintended consequences.''
 She added, ''In the few instances in which a market or markets experience systemic failure that is not likely to self-correct, government regulation tailored to correct the failure may be appropriate, provided that careful analysis shows that the proposed regulation's expected benefits outweigh its expected costs.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Deborah P. Majoras, named to lead the Federal Trade Commission, and Jon D. Leibowitz, a commission nominee, at hearing yesterday. (Photo by Carol T. Powers for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GASOLINE PRICES (92%); OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (78%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); LAWYERS (74%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (73%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (73%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (73%); ETHICS (73%); DIVESTITURES (71%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (68%); MERGERS (56%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (50%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Biographical Information; Appointments and Executive Changes; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Shutdowns (Institutional); Refineries

COMPANY: ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (70%); CHEVRON CORP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%) Federal Trade Commission; Royal Dutch/shell Group

TICKER: RDSA (LSE) (70%); RDSA (AMS) (70%); RDS.B (NYSE) (70%); RDS.A (NYSE) (70%); CVX (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (70%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (70%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (53%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (53%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (53%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); RON WYDEN (89%); BARBARA BOXER (78%) Deborah P Majoras; George W (Pres) Bush; Ron (Sen) Wyden; Barbara (Sen) Boxer; Stephen Labaton

GEOGRAPHIC: BAKERSFIELD, CA, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WEST USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) Western States (US); Bakersfield (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2004



58 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 645 words

HEADLINE: Despite Surplus, City's Budget Is in Trouble, Monitors Warn

BYLINE: By MIKE McINTIRE

 BODY:
An improving economy is concealing serious problems in the city's budget that can only be solved through permanent spending cuts or increases in revenue, like higher taxes, a state fiscal monitor warned yesterday.
 The New York State Financial Control Board said it had reviewed Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's proposed $46.9 billion budget for the fiscal year that begins July 1, and found a ''deterioration in the city's fiscal condition that was temporarily masked'' by a growing surplus in this year's budget.
 The board, which can take control of the city's finances if the city ends the fiscal year with a deficit, said the city is relying too heavily on temporary increases to the personal income and sales taxes that are due to expire over the next two years.
 It said the projected surplus of about $1.5 billion this year would have been even larger if Medicaid costs, employee pensions and labor agreements had not increased. 
 ''On the surface,'' the board said in a report, ''a surplus of this size suggests that the city is in sound fiscal health. Unfortunately, the fact is the city's finances remain structurally unbalanced.''
 The control board's report is the latest in a series of warnings from budget watchers that the city's fiscal condition could be weaker than the numbers make it appear.
 Last week, the state comptroller, Alan G. Hevesi, said he was ''increasingly concerned that rising interest rates and large federal deficits will put a damper on economic activity'' and squeeze New York City's budget.
 And the Federal Reserve Bank of New York reported in April that the city is too dependent for its tax revenue on volatile Wall Street markets.
 Mr. Bloomberg has also warned that the city faces large deficits beginning in the 2006 fiscal year, and he has repeatedly stressed the problem of rising costs, some of which are beyond the city's control. But since he proposed spending $250 million to give a $400 property tax rebate to homeowners, the mayor has also sought to characterize the city's finances as improving enough to make the rebate fiscally responsible.
 The control board's report painted a starkly different picture. Citing the mayor's own estimate of a $3.8 billion deficit in 2006, the board suggested that the current surplus is little more than a fleeting break from the harsh reality of entrenched fiscal problems.
 The city, it said, is benefiting from a number of temporary measures, like $1 billion in soon-to-expire tax increases, $1.5 billion it borrowed to help recover from the Sept. 11 attacks, and a booming real estate market that since January has yielded $600 million more than expected from taxes on property transactions.
 The board urged the city to begin taking stronger ''recurring actions'' -- a euphemism for permanent spending cuts or revenue increases -- to close future gaps. Jeffrey L. Sommer, the acting executive director of the control board, said in an interview that even though the mayor's proposed budget for next year was balanced, he should start ''building up a surplus to use in 2006, because that is the troubled year.''
 The board, created in 1975 when the city was on the verge of bankruptcy, does not take a position on local policy initiatives, and so it would not publicly criticize the mayor's rebate plan or an alternative tax cut proposal by the City Council that could cost about $300 million. 
 Asked yesterday to comment on the board's report, Jordan Barowitz, a spokesman for the mayor, sought to blame any budget problems on the City Council. Mr. Barowitz pointed to a series of employee pension enhancements, discussed at a Council committee hearing yesterday, which he said would cost millions of dollars.
 David K. Chai, a spokesman for Gifford Miller, the Council speaker, said some of the pension changes were intended to benefit families of emergency services workers who died Sept. 11.




LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); SALES TAX (78%); MEDICAID (77%); TAX INCREASES (77%); TAX RELIEF (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); NATIONAL DEBT (69%); CENTRAL BANKS (64%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (84%)

ORGANIZATION: Financial Control Board (NYS)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (84%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (84%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (79%) Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Mike Mcintire

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; New York State

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2004



59 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; TECHNOLOGY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1407 words

HEADLINE: Oracle Croons a New Tune About an Old Rival

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR; Laurie J. Flynn, in San Francisco, contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
In business, competitors are routinely cast as enemies to be fought and ridiculed. And over the years Oracle, led by its shoot-from-the-lip chief executive, Lawrence J. Ellison, has directed vast quantities of combative energy and invective at Microsoft -- a software maker led by a man even richer than Mr. Ellison, Bill Gates.
 But when Oracle squares off against the Justice Department over its proposed hostile takeover of PeopleSoft in Federal District Court in San Francisco next Monday, it will portray Microsoft as a guardian of competition and a welcome new entrant in the $25-billion-a-year global market for the back-office software that companies use to manage finances, human resources, procurement, sales and customer relations. 
 For Oracle, the new attitude toward Microsoft is not a change of heart but a matter of self-interest. The Justice Department is suing to block Oracle's $7.7 billion bid for PeopleSoft because it argues that the merger would be anticompetitive by reducing the number of major rivals in the business software market to two from three, thus driving up prices. PeopleSoft has rejected Oracle's offer several times; Oracle made its first offer in June 2003. 
 Oracle contends that the federal antitrust regulators have taken a myopic view to make their case, defining the market narrowly as confined to three suppliers: SAP of Germany, PeopleSoft and Oracle. The business software industry, Oracle insists, is a much broader, dynamic arena with no shortage of innovation and competitors. Microsoft is a prime exhibit in Oracle's defense. The world's biggest software company has risen rapidly, invested heavily and declared its goal of increasing its business software sales to $10 billion annually in less than a decade, from nearly $700 million last year. 
 In a white paper submitted to the Justice Department in late January, Oracle laid out its view of the Microsoft challenge in the business software market. Microsoft, according to the document, is a ''competitor'' and a ''committed entrant'' who is intent on changing the economics of the industry. ''It acts as a constraint on the exercise of any market power that might otherwise result from the combination of Oracle and PeopleSoft,'' the white paper said.
 The 29-page document, assessing Microsoft's progress to date and plans for the future, concluded: ''It is effective entry by a determined competitor, and Oracle welcomes the challenge. But entry it is, on a large scale and a short time line.''
 All antitrust merger cases require the courts to make a guess about the future, and in fast-changing technology that task is particularly tricky. 
 Judge Vaughn R. Walker must decide whether Microsoft's entry into the business software market is likely to be, in legal terms, ''timely'' and ''sufficient'' to reduce the market power of the incumbents. He must also determine if the market definition used by the Justice Department and supported by 10 states is appropriate. The government focused on two slices of the business-applications market -- financial and human-resource software -- sold to the largest corporations and government institutions.
 The Justice Department will begin calling witnesses on Monday, starting with Cox Communications and Verizon, both customers for software designed for large corporations. Later, the department is expected to call Douglas Burgum, a Microsoft senior vice president. 
 With Mr. Burgum's testimony, Justice Department lawyers hope to demonstrate that Microsoft will not move into the sophisticated software market for the largest corporations in the next two years. 
 Oracle, for its part, plans to call executives from I.B.M., Lawson, SAP and Siebel in hopes of showing that there are more than three competitors in the market. It also plans to call Cindy Bates, a Microsoft general manager. Oracle lawyers hope her testimony will reveal Microsoft's ambitions in the market. 
 The trial, which is expected to last a month, will require some intellectual gymnastics and selective loss of memory from both sides. Oracle moved into the business software market from its stronghold in corporate database software well before Microsoft. Its sales representatives have denigrated Microsoft's business software as suitable only for small and medium-size businesses, not heavyweight corporate use. In 2002, Charles Phillips, then an analyst for Morgan Stanley & Company, wrote, ''The back-office applications market for global companies is dominated by an oligopoly comprised of SAP, PeopleSoft and Oracle.'' Today, Mr. Phillips is the president of Oracle.
 Meanwhile, the Justice Department, in its long-running antitrust suit against Microsoft, depicted the company as a bullying predator, bent on moving beyond its monopoly in desktop operating systems into other software markets.
 Grabbing market share in software for corporate data centers is at the top of Microsoft's list of growth opportunities. Yet for the purposes of the Oracle case, the Justice Department has decided that Microsoft will confine its ambitions to small businesses and ''midmarket'' companies, which Microsoft defines as companies with up to 1,000 employees.
 Microsoft entered the business software market in December 2000, when it acquired Great Plains Software for $1.1 billion. In May 2002, it increased its presence with the purchase of Navision, a Danish software producer of business software, for $1.3 billion. Through investment, Microsoft has accelerated the growth of those businesses. By 2003, Microsoft rose to become the fourth-largest supplier of business software, according to IDC, a research firm. Microsoft had 2.9 percent of the broadly defined market for business software worldwide, well behind SAP, with 20 percent; PeopleSoft, with 7 percent; and Oracle, with 5.5 percent, IDC reported.
 Clearly, Microsoft has big plans for business software. In an interview last year, Orlando Ayala, a senior vice president, explained: ''There are very few businesses that can grow at a pace of 20 or 30 percent a year. We believe this business can be a $10 billion business.''
 Business software products also have a broader strategic importance for Microsoft. For nearly two years, the company has been developing a new generation of business software, code-named Project Green. The project involves nearly 700 programmers, at an estimated cost of more than $1 billion a year. Microsoft's business software is being rewritten to a single base of programming code, which is tailored to the company's .NET initiative. 
 The .NET technology involves a layer of software for distributed computing, linking all kinds of machines, using Internet standards. That technology is closely tied to Microsoft's Windows operating system, but it represents an effort to move Microsoft's dominance beyond personal computer software into everything from cellphones to corporate data centers.
 Microsoft's business software is seen within the company as crucial to the success of its .NET technology, just as the Microsoft Office suite of desktop programs was for Windows. In a presentation to industry partners in September 2002, a comment from Steven A. Ballmer, Microsoft's chief executive, explained the strategy: ''Office is what drove the adoption of the Windows platform. Microsoft Business Solutions will drive the adoption of the .NET platform.'' Most of Microsoft's gains in business software have come with smaller companies, but it has won over some large corporations as well.
 Microsoft landed a sizable business software contract last year with Esselte, based in Stamford, Conn., a private producer and distributor of office supplies, with more than $1 billion in yearly sales and nearly 7,000 employees in 27 countries. 
 The company had 22 business software systems including those sold by SAP. Standardizing around SAP's systems might have been the logical step. But Lani Spund, a consultant brought in to overhaul the company's technology systems after an investment firm purchased Esselte in 2002, took a different route. 
 Mr. Spund said he ultimately chose Microsoft's Axapta system because it was flexible, could be expanded to handle Esselte's plans for rapid growth, and was half the price per employee of SAP's product.
 ''This is showing that Microsoft can be a player in the top end of the enterprise market,'' said Mr. Spund, who is now Esselte's chief information officer.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Lawrence J. Ellison of Oracle, left, has directed a lot of invective toward Microsoft, if not toward executives like Steven A. Ballmer, its chief executive, below. But the attempted takeover of PeopleSoft has brought out a kinder, gentler side of Mr. Ellison, at least for now. (Photographs by Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (92%); ELECTRONIC HUMAN RESOURCES (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (90%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (89%); MERGERS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); TAKEOVERS (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); LITIGATION (76%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (76%); SUITS & CLAIMS (76%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (54%) Computers and the Internet; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Computer Software; Suits and Litigation; Antitrust Actions and Laws; Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (92%); MICROSOFT CORP (90%)

ORGANIZATION: Oracle Corp ; Microsoft Corp; Justice Department; Peoplesoft Inc

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (92%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (92%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (92%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (92%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (92%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (92%)

PERSON: LAWRENCE J ELLISON (90%); BILL GATES (57%) Steve Lohr

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) GERMANY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2004



60 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: The acquisitive MDC Partners expands again, this time buying a stake in Bruce Mau Design.

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott

 BODY:
THE acquisitive MDC Partners in Toronto -- the little agency company that could, or thinks it could -- is at it again, expanding into the rapidly growing field of design for marketing communications.
 MDC, which since January has bought interests in a half-dozen agencies including Cliff Freeman & Partners, Henderson Bas, Kirshenbaum Bond & Partners and Mono, is buying a majority stake in Bruce Mau Design, a well-regarded shop also based in Toronto.
 Mau Design, named after its founder, who has collaborated with the likes of Frank Gehry and Rem Koolhaas, specializes in services that are of growing interest to marketers seeking to reach consumers through methods beyond traditional advertising like television commercials.
 Mau Design creates everything from store layouts and signs to packaging and logos, helping to form and change attitudes about brands, products and retailers. 
 ''Design is setting the tone for all other communication to happen,'' Bruce Mau, who continues as chairman of Mau Design, said in a phone interview yesterday. 
 Miles S. Nadal, chairman and chief executive of MDC, said that Mau Design would become the core of a design specialty for his agency company, which is seeking to compete against its far larger rivals by promoting its offerings as fresher and more creatively focused.
 ''Design is becoming exceedingly important in the media mix,'' Mr. Nadal said, ''and we think there's a huge strategic value to offering that service to clients.''
 That is particularly true, he added, as ''the retail environment makes more of an impact'' on sales than previously. In the past, the primary influence on consumers was the advertising from marketers they saw and heard before they shopped. Now, chains like Bed Bath & Beyond, Best Buy, Home Depot and Wal-Mart lure shoppers with displays, events, promotions and other attractions in the stores -- appeals that may persuade shoppers to buy something different from what the traditional ads suggested.
 Mr. Nadal discussed the deal with Mau Design at a breakfast yesterday in Midtown Manhattan. The agreement, for MDC to acquire a 50.1 percent stake, is to be formally announced today, with an expansion into public relations and corporate communications to follow soon.
 Services besides traditional advertising bring ''a different sensibility to a brand that enhances the brand's presence,'' said Chuck Porter, chief strategist at MDC, who joined Mr. Nadal for the breakfast. 
 Mr. Porter, who is also chairman of one of the most prominent MDC agencies, Crispin Porter & Bogusky in Miami, is the point person for the lengthening list of deals MDC is making; he recently returned from a scouting foray in Europe, where he had discussions with agencies that included Strawberry Frog.
 Mr. Mau, 44, said he had also ''been approached by several of the bigger groups,'' referring to the agency companies larger than MDC, ''but I thought they didn't add much to me because they wanted me to become like them.''
 ''What's exciting about this,'' he added, referring to the deal with MDC, ''is they're becoming like me.''
 Mr. Mau spoke from Vancouver, British Columbia, where he was working on a project for the Vancouver Art Gallery centered on a touring exhibition, titled ''Massive Change,'' on the potential and power of design.
 ''A friend of mine who works in the agency business said that 20 years ago, design was not meeting with the C.E.O.,'' Mr. Mau said, ''but today, design is at the head table.''
 ''We think of design as objects and spaces,'' he added, ''but more and more, we live inside a design environment and have developed the capacity to design our lives.''
 Mr. Mau lists clients and projects for Mau Design that include Indigo Books and Music, the largest Canadian book retailer; the Museum of Modern Art in New York, for graphics for the redesigned building that is to reopen in the fall; showrooms and sales brochures for the furniture maker Knoll; Mr. Koolhaas, the architect, for the book ''S, M, L, XL''; and Mr. Gehry, the architect, for graphics for the Walt Disney Concert Hall in Los Angeles.
 On the public relations front, Mr. Nadal said, MDC is hiring Harry Clark, a longtime senior executive in the corporate affairs and lobbying fields, to help ''build a network of public relations, corporate communications and public affairs businesses.''
 Mr. Clark was a former partner in Clark & Weinstock, an agency now owned by the Omnicom Group in New York, the world's largest agency company with $8.6 billion in revenue last year.
 MDC, by contrast, will have about $320 million in revenue from marketing services this year, Mr. Nadal estimated, with a goal of $1 billion in five years as it continues acquiring agencies with entrepreneurial bents like Mau Design, Freeman and Kirshenbaum Bond.
 ''We're not Omnicom's size,'' Mr. Nadal said, ''but entrepreneurs like the idea of being around the table with like-minded people.''
 Entrepreneurs who like entrepreneurs like MDC? It could be a slogan, if Dial soap had not been there first with a similar sentiment.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Bruce Mau is chairman of Mau Design, which creates store layouts. Indigo Books and Music, the Canadian book retailer, is a client. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); ACQUISITIONS (77%); BRANDING (77%); RETAILERS (76%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (76%); INTERVIEWS (74%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (72%); EVENT MARKETING (72%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (68%); EXECUTIVES (67%) 

COMPANY: MDC PARTNERS INC (90%); CRISPIN PORTER & BOGUSKY (61%); CLIFF FREEMAN & PARTNERS (58%); KIRSHENBAUM BOND & PARTNERS (58%); BED BATH & BEYOND INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Mau, Bruce, Design; Mdc Partners

TICKER: MDZ.A (TSX) (90%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (90%); BBBY (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (90%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (90%); NAICS442299 ALL OTHER HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (53%); NAICS442110 FURNITURE STORES (53%); NAICS423210 FURNITURE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (53%)

PERSON: Stuart Elliott

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) ONTARIO, CANADA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) CANADA (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (74%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2004



61 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1980 words

HEADLINE: The Pied Piper of Las Vegas Seems to Have Perfect Pitch

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

DATELINE: LAS VEGAS 

 BODY:
Every dream needs a merchant, every myth a mythmaker. In Las Vegas, that job falls to Billy Vassiliadis, adman, huckster, deal maker and fixer extraordinaire.
 Friends and rivals alike describe Mr. Vassiliadis -- known universally as Billy V. -- as the most powerful unelected person in Nevada. The modifier may be superfluous. He has spun sand into pure gold.
 Mr. Vassiliadis is president and majority owner of R&R Partners, Nevada's largest advertising agency and the $65-million-a-year mouthpiece of the Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority. His mission is to sell Las Vegas to the world, to keep the dreamers, the revelers, the suckers coming. 
 Mr. Vassiliadis has provided the background music as the city continually reinvents itself, alternately tarting itself up and toning itself down. The agency has sold the city as the ''Resort Bargain of the World,'' as ''The American Way to Play,'' as ''Open 24 Hours'' and, for a brief unshining moment in the mid-1990's, as a wholesome family destination.
 But the latest R&R Partners campaign, known in-house as ''Vegas Stories'' but to the world by its now-famous tagline, ''What happens here stays here,'' is destined to be long remembered as a stroke of marketing genius.
 The television spots are highly suggestive -- a group of young women in a limousine giggling over some unspoken exploit, a disheveled couple who have misplaced their luggage, a young man asking for a wake-up call to be directed to his cellphone. The message is unmistakable: In Las Vegas, anything goes.
 This is Billy Vassiliadis's Las Vegas. He is, metaphorically speaking, a sidewalk shill for the monstrous billion-dollar theme hotels rising from the hard-packed sands of the neon-drenched Strip, enticing one and all to try their luck. He looks the part, too, favoring dark slacks and sweaters, sporting rich salt-and-pepper hair, a single gold chain around his neck.
 But Mr. Vassiliadis, 48, is much more than a high-end huckster. He is a master player in almost every major game in Nevada -- politics, government, advertising, public relations, entertainment and gambling. His client list at R&R includes home builders, miners, ranchers, liquor distributors, hospitals, airlines, utilities, telecommunications firms and the big casino hotels on the Strip.
 He is an adviser to governors and senators, a political consultant and campaign guru, one of the most influential lobbyists in the state capital and a behind-the-scenes eminence in the state's economic engine, the euphemistically named resort industry.
 He is profane, sarcastic, loud, charming, bombastic, seductive, terrifying and a lot of fun to be around. He is a devoted husband, a father of two teenagers and the chief salesman for the after-midnight side of Las Vegas. He is, by his own description, ''schizo'' about living in Las Vegas, which is at once the nation's adult amusement park and a growing city where thousands of people arrive each month looking for jobs, houses, schools and churches, the trappings of a normal life. His job is to oil the engine that keeps them coming, the multibillion-dollar gambling and entertainment complex that provides the jobs and pays the taxes.

In Charge of 'What Happens Here'
 Asked to describe his mission in life, Mr. Vassiliadis does not hesitate. ''What I do for a living is I try to promote and protect the state's largest industry,'' he said in an interview in his office surrounded by pictures of himself with Bill Clinton and other politicians, and trinkets from his beloved Chicago Cubs and Bears. ''My job is to drive as much demand for this destination as I can.''
 The ''Vegas Stories'' campaign, by all available measures, is doing just that. A record 35 million visitors passed through Las Vegas last year, and the city seems poised to set another record this year.
 The ''What happens here'' tagline has become a fixture in the popular culture, appearing in prime-time series and on ''Saturday Night Live'' and ''Today.'' 
 William J. Bennett, the education secretary in the Reagan administration, complained after he was caught on a surveillance camera in a Las Vegas casino, ''Apparently, 'What happens here, stays here' applies to everyone but me.''
 Manuel Cortez, the president of the convention bureau and a onetime political client of Mr. Vassiliadis's, is delighted with the current campaign. ''It's suggestive, yes, but there's nothing you can see that's pornographic,'' he said. ''Las Vegas is what it is. Las Vegas is an adult playground. That is one of the keys to attracting ever-increasing numbers of conventions and trade shows.''
 Five years ago, the convention authority put its lucrative advertising contract up for bid. National firms competed, but R&R blew them away with a gaudy video that was pure Vegas showmanship. The convention authority just renewed R&R's contract for five more years without bidding it out. Mr. Cortez has no apologies. ''We're in the middle of a campaign that's better than anything we've ever had,'' he said.
 Of Mr. Vassiliadis he said, ''Billy is very, very well respected in the industry,'' using, perhaps without meaning to, a phrase that in Las Vegas has long implied well connected to the mob. ''He's a guy you want in your corner if you have a problem -- a political problem or a marketing problem.''
 Billy Vassiliadis was 18 when he arrived in Las Vegas in the 1970's, a big outgoing Greek kid from Chicago. He was born in Athens. His father taught in Greek Orthodox schools in Greece, Romania and Ethiopia before immigrating to the United States in 1957 with his wife and year-old son. He attended the University of Nevada, Las Vegas, where he became active in Democratic politics and began cultivating friends and mentors who would catapult him into prominence.
 ''What was great about Vegas then and to a large extent is still true, was opportunity,'' Mr. Vassiliadis said. ''Anybody who has talent and a passion to succeed is just not going to fail here.''
 He volunteered on numerous campaigns and in 1982 ran the long-shot campaign of John Moran for the job of Clark County sheriff. Mr. Moran won.
 At the end of 1982, Sig Rogich offered Mr. Vassiliadis a job in his agency, R&R Partners. The agency already had the Las Vegas convention authority contract and represented Howard Hughes's casino hotels, home builders and car dealerships.
 ''Billy became my right arm,'' said Mr. Rogich, 60. ''We were really the odd couple. Sometimes he'd shave, sometimes he wouldn't. His office was always a great mess. It used to drive me crazy.''
 Having Mr. Vassiliadis around freed Mr. Rogich to devote time to national politics. After directing advertising for the 1988 and '92 Bush campaigns, he returned to Las Vegas, and barely recognized the agency he had founded. Mr. Vassiliadis had remade it in his own image: splashier, more aggressive, deeply involved in Nevada politics.
 ''It wasn't necessarily bad, just different,'' Mr. Rogich said. ''They just weren't my people.'' He decided to sell to Mr. Vassiliadis and several other partners, a decision he came to regret.
 ''I had seller's remorse,'' Mr. Rogich admitted. ''I made a lot of money but I missed the creative part, the electricity.''

A Broad Sphere of Influence
 Under Mr. Vassiliadis, the firm has grown to 220 employees and more than $200 million a year in billings. It occupies its own year-old 70,000-square-foot building in Summerlin, a prosperous suburb.
 The offices reflect Mr. Vassiliadis's personality, self-consciously hip, with the feel of an adult game arcade, all open space with 14-foot-video screens, table tennis and a foosball game in the common area. The first-floor conference room, called the War Room, is painted in camouflage and decorated with a four-foot-tall hand grenade.
 As Mr. Vassiliadis cemented control of R&R, he was also expanding his political and business portfolio. He ran the two governor's campaigns of Bob Miller, the son of Ross Miller, a casino operator connected to the Chicago organized-crime outfit. He also pushed along the political career of Mr. Cortez, who served 16 years on the Clark County Commission before becoming president of the Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority a decade ago, a relationship that has paid Mr. Vassiliadis huge dividends.
 There is hardly a figure in statewide or national politics in Nevada today who does not owe some debt to Billy Vassiliadis.
 Nevada's 1988 Senate campaign became an occasion for one of Mr. Vassiliadis's notorious eruptions of temper. He had become close to Jon Ralston, then the political writer for The Las Vegas Review-Journal and now a columnist for The Las Vegas Sun and host of a television political talk show. Although Mr. Miller, then the lieutenant governor, was not running, his father's ties to the mob became an issue in the race. Mr. Vassiliadis, fighting back on behalf of the Democratic Senate candidate, Richard Bryan, tried to plant a story with Mr. Ralston about the supposed Watergate connection of a Republican aide on the other side in the race.
 Mr. Ralston refused to bite, and Mr. Vassiliadis turned on him with a fusillade of high-volume invective.
 ''An hour after he blew up at me he called back and said, 'Do you still love me?'''
 Now they talk almost daily. ''We're closer than most brothers are,'' Mr. Ralston said.
 As he built his political client base, Mr. Vassiliadis also became one of the two or three most powerful lobbyists in Carson City. His most important lobbying account is also the state's most important interest group -- the Nevada Resort Association, representing the 15 big casino companies that dominate gambling in the state.
 Mr. Vassiliadis is a rich man many times over, but he turned down as clients cigarette makers, strip clubs and insurance companies. He also turned away the nuclear waste industry, which is seeking to build a high-level radioactive dump in Nevada. ''That was retirement money,'' he said.
 Jan Jones, a former mayor of Las Vegas who ran for governor against Mr. Miller in 1994, said Mr. Vassiliadis is wired into the state's power structure.
 ''Is he the most powerful non-elected person in Nevada? Oh, absolutely,'' she said. ''You would call him before you call the governor, because Billy will get you there and your name won't be in the newspaper.''
 ''What happens here, stays here'' was the handiwork of two young R&R copywriters, Jeff Candido and Jason Hoff, who have moved on to agencies on the East Coast. It is indelibly associated with Mr. Vassiliadis and could well end up as his ironic epitaph.
 The phrase is not universally loved. Some civic boosters say it perpetuates a tawdry image when they are trying to sell Las Vegas as a healthy place to raise a family.
 Mr. Vassiliadis said even his wife of 20 years, Rosemary, who comes from a conservative Catholic family in Chicago, is less than enamored of the campaign and the image it projects. Billy V. shrugs. The campaign, and the city, are about a visceral feeling of freedom, an emotional need to escape, he said. And the way you sell that is to suggest that life here is fundamentally different from life elsewhere.
 ''People come here and lose themselves in their own notion of what personal freedom is,'' he said. ''It's not so much outlaw or naughty. It's not about having sex. It's about coming here and feeling sexy, feeling like a high roller.''

AMERICAN DREAMERS
The Lure of Las Vegas
 Las Vegas is America's magnet city, an irresistible destination for countless pleasure-seekers and a vast tide of economic migrants. Articles in this series have examined the city and its suburbs through the lives of a few of the people who have pursued new beginnings there, including a teacher, a judge, a stripper, a waitress and an advertising man.

ON THE WEB -- Additional materials, including the articles and interviews with people featured in this series, can be found at nytimes.com/lasvegas.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Billy Vassiliadis (but you can call him Billy V.) in his office. (Photo by Jim Wilson/The New York Times)(pg. A1)
 Billy Vassiliadis reviewing an advertising campaign with his creative team. It was his agency that divined the slogan ''What happens here stays here.'' (Photographs by JIM WILSON/The New York Times)(pg. A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (88%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (76%); RESORTS (76%); POLITICS (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (76%); LODGING (75%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (75%); FAMILY TRAVEL (73%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (71%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (71%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (70%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (70%); AIRLINES (66%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (64%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (51%); LOBBYING (50%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (50%) 

ORGANIZATION: R&r Partners

PERSON: John M Broder; Billy Vassiliadis

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (97%) NEVADA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) Las Vegas (Nev); Las Vegas (Nev); Las Vegas (Nev)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2004



62 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1322 words

HEADLINE: Costs Put Delta in the Cross Hairs of Crisis

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD

 BODY:
Before the September 2001 terrorist attacks, Delta Air Lines perennially led the airline league, with lower costs than competitors like American or United and plenty of loyal customers. 
 The company's costs have barely risen since then, which in another industry might be something to brag about. But for Delta, it is a big problem -- and the main reason why it is the latest major airline to be swept by a financial crisis.
 As airline chief executives pleaded for help in a Congressional hearing yesterday, Wall Street began to worry that Delta could decline much more swiftly than anticipated.
 Even so, Representative John L. Mica, the Florida Republican who heads the House aviation subcommittee, told the executives that the airlines would have to ''fend for themselves'' and could not expect any more significant help from the government. 
 ''Congress is not going to underwrite losing airline operations,'' Mr. Mica said.
 The airline in the spotlight right now is Delta, which for years was considered one of the soundest and best managed of the majors. On May 10, the airline said it might have to file for bankruptcy protection unless it could slash costs and win steep concessions from its pilots' union.
 Many of Delta's rivals have managed to cut their costs by double-digit percentages in the years since the terrorist attacks by going that route -- either filing for bankruptcy protection, like United, or threatening to file, like American. In the process, they erased Delta's onetime efficiency advantage, leaving it with what are now among the highest costs in the industry. 
 Then jet fuel prices began to skyrocket, climbing by nearly half in the last year, and stiff competition from low-fare carriers has kept everyone in the industry from recouping the higher costs through increases in ticket prices. Together, the developments have put fierce pressure on Delta. 
 In recent days, the airline has reinforced its warning about the state of its finances by hiring restructuring advisers to identify ways to streamline its debts and its operations. 
 ''It is Delta's moment,'' said Michael Allen, chief operating officer of Back Aviation, an industry consulting firm.
 Jamie Baker, who follows airlines for J.P. Morgan, reported yesterday that he expected Delta to lose $7.78 a share in 2004, almost 60 percent more than his previous estimate of $4.93. Mr. Baker said the airline could be in Chapter 11 by the end of the year. 
 That Delta feels obliged to talk about a bankruptcy filing is sobering for the industry, experts said, demonstrating that however well run an airline has been, none can afford to stand still in today's troubled business environment. And there is no relief in sight from the twin pressures on costs and revenues.
 ''The fear is that this is a lasting problem that they will have to deal with,'' said Philip A. Baggaley, an airline analyst with Standard & Poor's.
 Mr. Baggaley, who testified at yesterday's hearing, said that this should have been a good year for the airlines. The economy is healthy, many flights are full and summer traffic volume is expected to be the strongest since 2001. Yet the Air Transport Association, an industry trade group, estimates airlines will lose $3 billion in 2004.
 Why? Airline executives have a uniform answer: jet fuel, which costs more than $1 a gallon, compared with about 76 cents last June. While some airlines have insulated themselves from part of the impact through hedging contracts, others did not, or in United's case could not, because of its December 2002 bankruptcy filing. 
 United now expects its fuel bill for the year to run $750 million over its forecast, complicating its bid for a $1.6 billion package from the Air Transportation Stabilization Board, created by Congress after the Sept. 11 attacks to oversee $10 billion in loan guarantees and other assistance.
 Yesterday, the board's executive director, Michael Kestenbaum, said the federal government owned stakes equivalent to $100 million in six airlines that received loan guarantees totaling $1.8 billion.
 Airlines say the damage from fuel costs would not be so severe if they could pass the costs along to consumers by charging higher fares, as they were able to do when oil prices spiked in the past. Not this time, though. Numerous attempts by Continental, Northwest and other carriers to raise fares by $5 to $20 a ticket have largely failed, because low-fare airlines flying the same routes undercut them.
 The ease with which consumers can comparison shop on travel Web sites has also hindered the airlines' efforts to raise fares, Mr. Allen said. ''There is no pricing power,'' he added.
 That leaves the airlines little choice but to find more cost cuts across their businesses. Delta, with more than $20 billion of debt on its balance sheet, has been conducting a complete strategic review since the beginning of the year. 
 The chief executive, Gerald A. Grinstein, wants to present a restructuring plan to Delta's board late in the summer. To develop it, Delta has retained the Blackstone Group, a specialist in debt restructuring, and Davis, Polk & Wardwell, a law firm it has used on financial matters, according to people who had been briefed on the matter. Delta executives said the company routinely got advice from legal and financial experts and declined to discuss which advisers it had retained.
 Mr. Allen said Delta's efforts were meant to communicate a sense of urgency, like the one American created a year ago when it repeatedly threatened to file for Chapter 11 protection if employees refused to accept wage and benefit cuts.
 ''If you drive as if you are going to run into the wall, that's when action takes place,'' he said. ''It will probably take coming very close to the edge before anything of a serious nature comes about.''
 But, Delta's pilots, whose contract expires next May, are not required to sit down with the company until Aug. 3. They have already rejected a Delta proposal to cut wages and benefits by 30 percent, saying 9 percent would be more acceptable. 
 Mr. Baggaley said Delta could cite its rivals as cautionary lessons in talks with the unions, because without concessions from workers, ''United would be shut down, American would be bankrupt, and Continental never would have come out of bankruptcy'' in the 1990's.
 For proof of the value of acting to pre-empt problems, Delta need only look to the industry's biggest low-fare carrier, Southwest Airlines. In addition to actively hedging its exposure to fuel prices, Southwest has been modifying its Boeing 737 jets by adding winglets, small extensions curving up and out from the wingtips, to reduce drag and save fuel. 
 Southwest considered the move for years, but was loath to take its tightly scheduled planes out of service for several days each to install them. 
 Last year, though, when it seemed that jet fuel might climb over 80 cents a gallon, Southwest calculated that the time was right, said James C. Wimberly, an executive vice president and chief of operations.
 Now, it is adding winglets to 66 of its 162 Boeing 737-700 planes, at a rate of 10 to 12 a month, and is having them installed on all new jets it buys, Mr. Wimberly said this week. Southwest expects the winglets to cut fuel consumption by as much as 3.5 percent on each flight and save $2 million a quarter. ''We have been very, very happy with the performance,'' he said.
 Delta and its rivals must follow Southwest's example, forget about fare increases and focus relentlessly on cost-cutting, said Robert W. Mann Jr., an industry consultant based in Port Washington, N.Y. ''The only long-term answer is productivity improvements,'' Mr. Mann said.
 The time to make those improvements is short. Delta and the other majors ''have only what is left of this business cycle to implement changes and repair their balance sheets,'' he said. ''Those that fail will be unable to weather the next cyclical downturn.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A Delta jet being readied for takeoff at Kennedy International Airport. The airline has said it may have to file for bankruptcy protection. (Photo by Jason Gilfillan for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 Glenn F. Tilton, foreground, the chief executive of United Airlines, during testimony yesterday in Washington. Airline chief executives pleaded for help in the face of rising fuel costs and stiff competition. (Photo by Reuters)(pg. C6)Chart: ''Trying to Rein in Costs''Most of the major airlines have reduced their costs, but some, already among the most expensive to run, have not been as successful.CHANGE IN AIRLINE COST TO FLY ONE SEAT ONE MILE, '01-'03'03 COST, IN CENTSNorthwest: 9.87 cents+2.1%Continental: 9.36+1.5Southwest: 7.60+0.8Delta: 10.48+0.1Alaska: 9.81-4.2American: 10.15-10.3Airtran: 8.28-11.3United: 10.50-12.5JetBlue: 6.08-12.9Frontier: 8.24-13.6America West: 7.86-14.7US Airways: 11.36-15.4ATA: 6.82-19.3(Source by Back Aviation Solutions)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (93%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (87%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); TERRORISM (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); AIR SERVICE (75%); JET FUEL (73%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); TICKET SALES (69%); PRICE INCREASES (63%); CONSULTING SERVICES (61%); FUEL MARKETS (50%) 

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Delta Air Lines

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%)

PERSON: JOHN L MICA (79%); GLENN TILTON (59%) John L (Rep) Mica; Micheline Maynard

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2004



63 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 4663 words

HEADLINE: ART GUIDE

 BODY:

A selective listing by critics of The Times: New or noteworthy art, design and photography exhibitions at New York museums and art galleries this weekend. At many museums, children under 12 and members are admitted free. Addresses, unless otherwise noted, are in Manhattan. Most galleries are closed on Sundays and Mondays, but hours vary and should be checked by telephone. Gallery admission is free unless noted. * denotes a highly recommended show.

Museums

* ''BYZANTIUM: FAITH AND POWER (1261-1557),'' Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue and 82nd Street, (212) 535-7710, through July 4. This vast and humblingly beautiful show about the waning centuries of the Byzantine empire reminds us that political decay does does not necessarily mean artistic decline. Full of amazing exotica -- manuscripts, miniature mosaics, textiles, drawings, paintings -- the exhibition ends with a room of great Northern Renaissance art indebted to icons that proves Byzantium's continued reach. People who are not Eastern Orthodox believers can enjoy the earthly pleasures of aesthetic spectacle linked with historical enlightenment. Hours: Sundays and Tuesdays through Thursdays, 9:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays until 9 p.m. Admission: $12; students and 65+, $7 (Michael Kimmelman).

* ''GOLDEN FANTASIES: JAPANESE SCREENS FROM NEW YORK COLLECTIONS,'' Asia Society and Museum, 725 Park Avenue, (212) 517-2742, through June 27. The painted folding screens in this small but splendiferous exhibition date from the 16th and 17th centuries, when a still-feudal Japan was undergoing major social and cultural changes. Both a ruling military elite and a rising mercantile bourgeoisie used art to create a dynamic and refined self-image. And few societies have produced power-objects more persuasive than the types of screens seen here, each a tour de force of high-end artifice. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Fridays to 9 p.m. Admission: $7; $5, students and 65+ (Holland Cotter).

''MARIUS DE ZAYAS AND THE STIEGLITZ CIRCLE,'' Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue at 82nd Street, (212) 535-7710, through June 27. This small show, focusing mainly on caricatures drawn by an associate of Alfred Stieglitz, is getting the jump on the 100th anniversary of the 1905 founding of Stieglitz's immensely influential Little Galleries of the Photo-Secession. De Zayas, an artist and later an art dealer himself from a celebrated Mexican family, drew images in charcoal and ink of Stieglitz and other photographers like Edward Steichen and Gertrude Kasebier and of artists like Max Weber and John Marin. They are always formally elegant and materially sumptuous, and some are almost illegibly abstract. Hours and admission: See above (Ken Johnson).

* ''MODIGLIANI: BEYOND THE MYTH,'' Jewish Museum, 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, (212) 423-3200, through Sept. 19. The first big New York retrospective of Modigliani since 1951, believe it or not, this is an overstuffed show that includes predictable duds but also a select group of his best sculptures and paintings, which belie the stereotype of him as an impulsive lunatic doing poster-ready art, hellbent on self-destruction. The good works indicate someone of worldly intelligence, patience, discipline and steady concentration. Modigliani's huge popularity has always depended on his risque reputation and on his languid, pretty, easily digested and unmistakable brand of delicately abstracted modernism. As with Chagall or Ben Shahn, it could frequently tip over into kitsch or parody. But at its best, it is original and exquisite and suggests someone beyond the bohemian cliche, clearly wrestling with issues besides the formal felicity of elongated shapes, who died prematurely. Hours: Sundays through Wednesdays, 11 a.m. to 5:45 p.m.; Thursdays, to 8 p.m.; Fridays, to 3 p.m. Admission: $10; $7.50 for students and 65+ (Kimmelman).

* ''PAINTERS OF REALITY: THE LEGACY OF LEONARDO AND CARAVAGGIO IN LOMBARDY,'' Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue at 82nd Street, (212) 535-7710, through Aug. 15. This show was partly conceived in scholar world, and it includes a few dull pictures that are here only to prove academic points you didn't know mattered in the first place. But don't let that obscure the exhibition's attraction, which has, above all, to do with discovery. You probably have never heard of many of the painters on view. Consider this an opportunity. Yes, you will find Leonardo and Caravaggio. But the visceral joy should come from happening on very great artists you might not know, with names like Savoldo, Lotto, Ceruti and Fede Galizia. Hours and admission: See above (Kimmelman).

''THE PIERRE AND MARIA-GAETANA MATISSE COLLECTION,'' Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue and 82nd Street, (212) 535-7710, through June 26, 2005, in three installments. This heterogeneous array of paintings, sculptures and works on paper was once owned by the Manhattan-based art dealer Pierre Matisse (1900-1989) and his wife, Maria-Gaetana (1943-2001). Most of the material came to the Met after Mrs. Matisse's death. It includes sexy paintings by Balthus, Magritte and Wifredo Lam, batty ones by Jean Dubuffet, and a feminist icon in a self-portrait by Leonora Carrington. A selection of the rich, calm, pleasurable art of Henri Matisse, Pierre's father, takes pride of place. Hours and admission: See above (Cotter).

* ''TREBLE,'' SculptureCenter, 44-19 Purves Street, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 361-1750, through Aug. 1. The most substantial manifestation of the New Sound, New York festival of sound art brings together the work of 22 artists and sound artists, effectively exploring the medium's infiltration of sculpture, Conceptual Art, Process Art and much more. It also makes brilliant use of the building's sometimes-soundproof construction, from Brad Tucker's found-nylon geodesic dome, to Jim Hodges's blown-glass bells to Andrea Ray's soothing oasis in the a basement vault, fashioned from very crunchy solar salt, yellow light and chanting voices. Hours: Thursdays through Mondays, noon to 6 p.m. Free (Roberta Smith).

* ''FRED WILSON, OBJECTS AND INSTALLATIONS: 1979-2000,'' Studio Museum in Harlem, 144 West 125th Street, (212) 864-4500, through July 4. Mr. Wilson, who represented the United States at the 2003 Venice Biennale, made his reputation with conceptually pointed, technically polished and visually engaging installations and objects that focused on excavating American racial history and illustrating the exclusionary power of cultural institutions shaped by social, economic and ideological domination. Elements of his subversive museum projects appear in this traveling show, along with sculptures and a fine, short new film. Hours: Wednesdays through Fridays, and Sundays, noon to 6 p.m.; Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission: $5; students and 62+, $3; children under 12, $1 (Cotter).

Galleries: Uptown

PIERRE BONNARD, Wildenstein, 19 East 64th Street, (212) 879-0500, through June 11. This very uneven show boasts one splashy painting, the large and lovely ''Landscape With a Blue Bird'' (1942) that shows Bonnard at his colorific best. Smaller oils, watercolors and drawings make up the rest of the show. Among the best of these are several very small landscape drawings, like ''The Open Window, With Mountains in the Distance,'' and ''Landscape at Arcachon,'' in which a tiny red-roofed house is nestled among green trees. Their loose but electric drawing, combined with touches of color, makes pure Bonnard magic (Grace Glueck).

''THE DEVONSHIRE INHERITANCE: FIVE CENTURIES OF COLLECTING AT CHATSWORTH,'' Bard Graduate Center, 18 West 86th Street, (212) 501-3000, through June 20. The stately English country home Chatsworth has been occupied since its construction in 1552 by the Cavendish family, headed by a long succession of dukes and duchesses of Devonshire. They have enriched it with notable collections of fine and decorative arts, an awesome library of books and manuscripts, scientific instruments, silver, furniture and needlework. A glimpse of these treasures is provided by this show, which has works by Rembrandt, Raphael, Titian, Durer and Lucian Freud; books and drawings by Andrea Palladio; a spectacular jewelry ensemble worn at the coronation of Czar Alexander II and much else to light up the eyes of the most jaded connoisseur. The next step is a visit to Chatsworth itself, still a private home for the
Cavendishes but very much open to the public (Glueck).

* ''GARDEN IN DELFT: WILLEM DE KOONING LANDSCAPES 1928-1988,'' Mitchell-Innes & Nash, 1018 Madison Avenue, near 78th Street, (212) 744-7400, through June 26. For the centennial of de Kooning's birth, this exhibition of 14 canvases represents a jubilant skip through his long career, with emphasis on his relationship to landscape. Never mind that the suggestion of abstracted still lifes sometimes seems equally strong, especially in two unfamiliar canvases from the late 1930's. A third painting, titled ''Still Life'' and dated circa 1929, may well be the earliest de Kooning painting most of us have ever seen. Its crisp shapes and deep primary colors suggest the influence of Joseph Stella and look forward to David Hockney (Smith).

STANLEY SPENCER, CDS Gallery, 76 East 79th Street, (212) 772-9555, through July 27. Religion, sex and his hometown of Cookham-on-Thames preoccupied the English painter Stanley Spencer (1891-1959), who expressed his visions in robust paintings that combined the influences of Italian Reniassance masters and modernist European movements. His powerful draftsmanship is seen in this show of 26 sheets that range from the early 1920's to the mid-1950's. Particularly evident is his adroitness at complex figural compositions, displayed in four studies for an unfinished painting, ''Christ Preaching at the Cookham Regatta.'' (One depicts four young men idling in a punt, a comment on the wealthy who attended the regatta along with common folk.) His softer erotic side is evident in a study for ''Leda and the Swan,'' a frothy vision of Leda in several poses, at first fighting off the bird, then submitting ecstatically. And there are a couple of wonderful portraits, a reflective early study of his wife, Hilda, and a jolly frumpish likeness of a Margaret Slesser, the wife of a judge in whose household he boarded in his early years. This catchall display, in which some of the works are faded and faint, lacks the oomph one expects from a Spencer drawing show, but it gives a taste of the artist's superlative skills applied to obsessive interests (Glueck).

ANTON VAN DALEN, ''The Living Room,'' Adam Baumgold, 74 East 79th Street, (212) 861-7338, through June 12. For his first solo show since 1996, this longtime East Village resident offers an engaging, cheerfully pluralistic 23-year retrospective. His always neatly made paintings, drawings and constructions look, variously, as if they were created by a savvy graphic designer, an idiosyncratic urban folk artist or a canny Conceptualist. They address topics like the history of the East Village art scene, sex, work, cars, drivers and the cultivation of pigeons (Johnson).

''WEEGEE'S STORY,'' Ubu, 416 East 59th Street, (212) 753-4444, through July 23. Wielding his 4-by-5 Speed Graphic with a master's touch, the New York tabloid photographer Weegee probably shot more murders and fires in his heyday, the 1930's and 40's, than anyone else in the business. But his passion for the city also drew him to its many other photo opportunities: the strivers and the homeless, festivities and freaks, politicians and celebrities, posh avenues and mean streets. This show of 220 Weegee vintage photographs, culled from a collection assembled over 30 years by the Berlin dealer Hendrik Berinson, reveals his remarkable range (Glueck).

Galleries: Chelsea

ANDREA CHAMPLIN/RACHEL URKOWITZ, Michael Steinberg, 526 West 26th Street, (212) 924-5770, through June 18. The two artists appear in separate rooms, but they share a devotion to energetically animated abstraction. Ms. Champlin's big, explosive paintings of pixilated, balloonlike volumes and other bulbous forms are based on digitally scrambled self-portrait photographs. Ms. Urkowitz makes lively collages on large, irregularly shaped sheets of paper, combining passages of Cubist crystallization, biomorphic Surrealism and trippy doodlelike forms. She also presents a series of goofy, free-standing sculptures: oversize cartoon daisies neatly laser-cut from sheets of colored plastic (Johnson).

* WILLEM DE KOONING, ''A Centennial Celebration,'' Gagosian, 555 West 24th Street, Chelsea, (212) 941-1111, through June 19. This beautifully installed 40-work survey begins with several previously unexhibited late ribbon paintings with their wafting, tangling strands of color that intimate both landscapes and still lifes but are, above all, abstract. The presentation seems to argue that de Kooning, like his younger colleague Philip Guston, would still have ample art historical stature had he made no other paintings than these, produced during the decade before he descended into Alzheimer's disease. But the show then backtracks through most of the artist's development, making the counter argument by demonstrating the many divergent and crisscrossing paths he took to reach his final distillation (Smith).

* TONY FEHER, ''The Wart on the Bosom of Mother Nature,'' D'Amelio Terras, 525 West 22nd Street, (212) 352-9460, through July 2. Mr. Feher makes wryly poetic and visually enchanting sculptures out of the least promising of materials: plastic and glass bottles and bottle caps, foam packing material, bent wire, soda stacking crates, marbles, colored string, crushed aluminum foil and stones. A pyramid of green plastic strawberry baskets has a luminous, dematerialized look. A collection of brown bottles stopped by red and blue marbles is captivatingly sensuous and obliquely political (Johnson).

PIA FRIES, ''MurGang,'' CRG, 535 West 22nd Street, (212) 229-2766, through June 12. Using palette knives, squeegees and extruding tools that she makes herself, this German artist applies paint in massive quantities to snowy white panels, creating viscerally attractive topographies of striated swathes, rippling ribbons, melting puddles and bristly thickets of brushstrokes. Looking closer you discover silkscreen photographs of earlier paintings underlying the actual paint, setting up dialogues between the mediated and the unmediated (Johnson).

EDGAR JERINS, Tatistcheff, 529 West 20th Street, (212) 627-4547, through June 12. The dramatically lighted realist images that Mr. Jerins draws, in charcoal on sheets of paper measuring about 5 by 8 feet, look like scenes from novels by Russell Banks. There's an air of grim desperation in his self-portrait with his two daughters and his pregnant, exhausted-looking wife, posed in a cramped bedroom and subtitled, ''We Need to Move.'' The portrait of a hunter with a shotgun in his tidy living room -- with a little girl and two women, one pregnant -- projects an unsettling hint of possible violence (Johnson).

DOUG OHLSON, Andre Zarre, 529 West 20th Street, (212) 255-0202, through June 19. Pure formalism with an emphasis on color is not the most fashionable approach to painting these days, which makes Mr. Ohlson's pulsating stripe paintings all the more gratifying to behold. On horizontal canvases, the artist, who is 78, paints vertical bands, some hard-edged, some brushy, in shades that range from glowing sherbets to deep, near-black blues. He orchestrates a rich wedding of Puritanism and hedonism (Johnson).

* CLAES OLDENBURG AND COOSJE VAN BRUGGEN, ''Images a la Carte,'' Paula Cooper, 534 West 21st Street, (212) 255-1105, through July 2. Made mostly on blue-lined notebook pages the size of index cards, using pencil, ink and watercolor, these wonderfully lively and keenly observed drawings depict shrimp cocktails, crabcakes, salads, sandwiches, a banana split, tarts, cheesecakes and other elaborate restaurant fare, interspersed with simpler items like a lemon slice, an apple core and a piece of cornbread. Mr. Oldenburg drew them; his longtime partner, Ms. van Bruggen, contributed ideas (Johnson).

* DANIEL RICHTER, ''The Morning After,'' David Zwirner, 525 West 19th Street, (212) 727-2070, through June 19. The 11 large, dystopic works in the New York solo debut of one of Germany's hottest new painters fail to live up to expectation. The lurid fluorescents and toxic darks, the post-apocalyptic imagery and the polymorphous watercolorish painting techniques all have their moments, but they are mostly mashed together into a confused, essentially conservative pastiche. The ambiguities feel canned, suggestive of a few too many viewings of ''Blade Runner'' or ''A Clockwork Orange'' (Smith).

JEFF SCHER, ''MILK OF AMNESIA,'' Maya Stendhal, 545 West 20th Street, (212) 366-1549, through June 30. Mr. Scher's short animated films -- none longer than seven minutes -- are optical joyrides. He copies by hand all kinds of found film, including old cartoons, Hollywood movies and pornography, in different colors and degrees of abstraction and painstakingly shoots his own new cels one by one. Set to delightful musical soundtracks, these collages of constant metamorphosis are dazzling and mesmerizing to watch (Johnson).

''SYMMETRIES,'' Senior & Shopmaker, 21 East 26th Street, (212) 213-6767, through June 30. The four sculptors in this fine exhibition are like cousins with shared as well as divergent interests. The show features a vibrant and whirling new wall painting by Sol LeWitt; an elegant arrangement of three-dimensional geometrical elements by Barry LeVa; a surprising early Cubist assemblage of unfinished boards by Richard Artschwager; and a conflation of vernacular architecture and Constructivist sculpture by Siah Armajani
(Johnson).

* ''TERRORVISION,'' Exit Art, 475 10th Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 966-7745, through July 31. Terror comes in all sizes, shapes and degrees, and this show runs the gamut, with exhibits by some 50-odd artists facing up to their most ''extreme fears'' -- from the general threats posed by al Qaeda and its franchises to the traumas of personal catastrophe like toothache, breast cancer and heart operations. The gallery's multidisciplinary emphasis is manifest in film, video, audio and computer-generated creations, along with media as simple as prints and photographs. It's a mix of successful efforts and some that don't quite make it, the lightweight with the more substantial. But it's alive and kicking (Glueck).

Galleries: SoHo

''DOGS + CATS,'' American Primitive, 594 Broadway, near Houston Street, (212) 966-1530, through June 12. This lively exhibition includes more than 60 feline or canine representations in two or three dimensions. Some are by self-taught artists. A big colorful painting by Jean Metcalf has cats and dogs in it but features a formal parade of rats carrying wounded birds on stretchers. Many are by unknown craftsmen, like the smoothly carved wooden head of a boxer with brown glass eyes, and the functional dog-shaped bench in the form of a wooden slab with branches that have been turned into legs (Johnson).

ANISH KAPOOR, Barbara Gladstone, 515 West 24th Street, (212) 206-9300, through June 25. Mr. Kapoor is the master of a certain sculptural paradox. He makes abstract sculptures that are powerfully and often luxuriously physical but have an apparently immaterial dimension. The four concave sides of ''Whiteout'' bend inward to what seems an impossible extent. ''Vortex,'' a shiny black circle built into the wall, recedes inward like a whirlpool toward a deep, dark and apparently limitless space. The effect is hair-raising (Johnson).

GERHARD RICHTER, ''Two Sculptures for a Room by Palermo,'' Peter Freeman, 560 Broadway, at Prince Street, (212) 966-5154, through June 26. Here is one of the very few sculptures made by Mr. Richter, the immensely influential German painter, during his career. It consists of two plaster heads cast from life, slathered in gray paint and mounted on pedestals. One head is Mr. Richter's; the other, of his fellow German painter Blinky Palermo. Facing each other with closed eyes, in a gallery that is empty but for a small study version in a shadow box on the wall, the faux classical sculptures create an ambience of dry existential ennui (Johnson).

Other Galleries

CARSTEN HOLLER, ''KARSTEN HOLLER,'' Casey Kaplan, 416 West 14th Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 645-7335, through June 19. Mr. Holler, a Stockholm-based Belgian who has exhibited extensively in Europe, likes to create disorienting interactive installations that are supposed to throw viewers into states of existential doubt. The main attraction here is a fun-house-like environment of revolving mirrored doors, a kind of walk-in kaleidoscope. Also, there is a set of blurry photographs shot in the woods of a species of mushroom that is visually beautiful but poisonous (Johnson).

''THE CAVE AND THE ISLAND,'' White Columns, 320 West 13th Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 924-4212, through June 20. Organized by Xandra Eden, assistant curator for the Power Plant, a gallery in Toronto, this group show presents works loosely about nature by eight Canadians. Highlights include Jennifer Murphy's images of animals, rain and a skull made of sequins, reflective plastics, velvet and lace; Karen Azoulay's waterfall made of yarn and pompoms; David Armstrong Six's social-surrealist fantasies finely painted in gouache; Damian Moppett's video of a bearded man in 19th-century clothing wandering around in a rain forest; and a video by the soundmaking team GLN that might be a spoof of New Age music (Johnson).

JONATHAN MEESE, ''DR. NO'S SON,'' Leo Koenig, 249 Centre Street, Lower Manhattan, (212) 334-9255, through June 8. Working with hectic, seemingly demented urgency to keep German Expressionist traditions alive, this young, Berlin-based artist makes bracingly hideous, scatalogically colored paintings about indecipherable mythological themes featuring monstrous military leaders. A pair of bronze sculptures look like melted heads from a wax museum (Johnson).

* ''ROCK'S ROLE (AFTER RYOANJI),'' Art in General, 79 Walker Street, TriBeCa, (212) 219-0473, through June 26. This serenely beautiful exhibition, part of the New Sound, New York sound art festival and the Buddhism Project Consortium, explores the influence of John Cage's notion that music could be the aural equivalent of a Japanese garden's rocks and sand. The works of 17 composers and artists flow from 15 speakers in a gardenlike installation (seating provided), creating a sonic collage while maintaining a remarkable degree of individuality. A memorable lesson in sound, space, listening and the history of avant-garde music (Smith).

''WORLDSCAPES: THE ART OF ERRO,'' Grey Art Gallery, New York University, 100 Washington Square East, Greenwich Village, (212) 998-6780, through July 17. The career of Erro, a prodigiously productive Pop-style painter said to be Iceland's most acclaimed artist, is featured in a nearly 50-year retrospective at the Grey Art Gallery. It will not persuade you that he is a great painter, but you may be taken by his manic graphic activity, antic humor and promiscuous sampling from popular culture. If so, you may also want to see ''Femmes Fatales'' at the Goethe Institut, 1014 Fifth Avenue, at 82nd Street, (212) 439-8700, through July 17, which offers 10 colorful paintings from an Erro series devoted to female comic book superheroes (Johnson).

Last Chance

''ARCADIA AND METROPOLIS: MASTERWORKS OF GERMAN EXPRESSIONISM FROM THE NATIONALGALERIE BERLIN,'' Neue Galerie, 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street, (212) 628-6200, through Monday. In 1937 the Nazis seized a large collection of Expressionist works from the Kronprinzen Palace in Berlin, Germany's first museum of contemporary art. But this branch of Nationalgalerie Berlin has made great strides in restoring what was the heart of its collection. This show of 40 works by Ernst Ludwig Kirchner, Karl Schmidt-Rottluff, Emil Nolde, Max Beckmann, George Grosz, Otto Dix, Hannah Hoch, Paula Modersohn-Becker and others touches on the history of German modern art -- Expressionism, Dadaism, Neue Sachlichkeit -- from around 1910 through the post-World War I period. Its title is drawn from the early preference of the Expressionists for rural places versus their later attraction to the city. Satirical thrusts at the failures of the Weimar Republic by Hoch, Dix and Grosz are also standouts. Hours: Fridays, 11 a.m. to 9 p.m.; Saturdays, Sundays and Mondays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission: $10; $7 for students and 65+ (Glueck).

* RED GROOMS, ''New Works in Wood,'' Marlborough, 40 West 57th Street, (212) 541-4900, through tomorrow. One of the artist's best shows in years concentrates almost exclusively on small reliefs made of constructed, painted and somewhat whittled wood. His familiar cast of New York people and places are once more tenderly caricatured, but with renewed vitality and economy (Smith).

* JEFF KOONS, ''Highlights of 25 Years,'' C&M Arts, 45 East 78th Street, (212) 861-0020, through tomorrow. This excellent 27-piece survey touches on all phases of Mr. Koons's career, including greatest hits like the basketballs mysteriously hovering in aquarium tanks; the Mylar ''Rabbit'' balloon cast in shiny stainless steel; and the sexy blonde embracing the Pink Panther in glazed ceramic. The climax of the show is the 10-foot-tall ''Balloon Dog.'' Made of stainless steel and coated in coppery translucent orange, it is a breathtaking symbol of the inflationary euphoria and anxiety of our times (Johnson).

JIM RICHARD, ''Decor,'' Oliver Kamm 5BE Gallery, 504 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 255-0979, through tomorrow. Mr. Richard, who is based in New Orleans and has been exhibiting his work since the mid-1970's, makes suavely satiric paintings of over-decorated rooms in the homes of art collectors. He simplifies and abstracts his photographic sources into cartoonish, Pop-style pictures marked by satiny smooth surfaces, muted colors, smoldering light and Cubist complication (Johnson).

* ''ROTH TIME: A DIETER ROTH RETROSPECTIVE,'' Museum of Modern Art, Queens, 45-20 33rd Street, at Queens Boulevard, Long Island City, (212) 708-9400, and P.S. 1 Contemporary Art Center, 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Street, Long Island City, (718) 784-2084, through Monday. This exhaustive, exhausting but ultimately astounding exhibition offers total immersion in the art of the German-born, Swiss-based multimedia dynamo Dieter Roth (1930-1998), who not only erased the line between art and life, but also fused them into a single insoluble entity. With nearly 400 works of painting, drawing, prints, sculpture, assemblage, collage, music, poetry, film, photography, video and sound, and using every imaginable kind of found object or material -- foodstuffs included -- the exhibition moves through 50 years of incessant, obsessive art-making with remarkable clarity. It culminates in a presentation of five enormous installation pieces at the Modern's little-sister institution, P.S. 1, that reveal a seemingly boundless universe of artistic activity and a radically new picture of an artist at work. MoMA Queens hours: Thursdays through Mondays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Fridays to 7:45 p.m. Admission: $12; $8.50 for students and 65+. P.S. 1: Thursdays through Mondays, noon to 6 p.m.; $5; students and 62+, $2 (Smith).

FRANK STELLA, ''Exotic Birds,'' Gagosian Gallery, 980 Madison Avenue, at 76th Street, (212) 744-2313, through tomorrow. Looking at Mr. Stella's three big, splashily painted reliefs from a 1976 series, it is easy to forget how shockingly flamboyant they seemed in their day. Now, with their curvy, tilting forms cut from honeycomb-core aluminum panels and neatly puzzled together within wide slanting frames, they seem prettily demure compared to what has happened since in painting as well as in sculpture (Johnson).


GRAPHIC: Photos: In ''Terrorvision,'' a group show at Exit Art in Chelsea, more than 50 artists examine their fears and display them in many permutations. (Photo by Exit Art)
Detail of ''Last Mask'' by Fred Wilson, at the Studio Museum. (Photo by $
 Fred Wilson/Metro Pictures) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (98%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); ART DEALERS (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); ART COLLECTING (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); PAINTING (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (63%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2004



64 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; DRIVING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1664 words

HEADLINE: Cute, Clean, Quiet and Pulling Into Traffic

BYLINE: By CHRIS DIXON

 BODY:
ON most mornings when he thinks there might be a swell, Tim Brown, who lives in Laguna Beach, Calif., takes a cup of coffee and his labradoodle and heads out to check the waves. His three-finned surfboard is strapped down and ready, overhanging the tiny roof of a curious metallic-gray-and-white machine that looks one part Volkswagen Beetle, one part iMac and one part golf cart.
 He climbs in, settles the dog in the passenger seat, turns a key, hits the ''forward'' button and rolls away in near silence through tree-lined streets toward the beach, ready for neighbors' friendly waves and tourists' dumbfounded stares. It's another day in a GEM car.
 GEM stands for Global Electric Motorcar, and since 2000, when it bought the company, DaimlerChrysler has turned out thousands of them at a shiny factory in Fargo, N.D. A tiny insect-like electric with a stripped-down, surprisingly tall body on which even doors are optional, the GEM looks like an outsized Happy Meal toy. ''I have dogs bark at me because they've never seen a car like this,'' said John Trevino, another Laguna Beach GEM owner. 
 But it is a real automobile -- all 5 horsepower and 48 volts of it -- legal in 30 states, including New York, Florida, Michigan and California. And it has been quietly creeping onto American streets, assisted by a low-key but deliberate marketing campaign and, lately, by enthusiastic owners.
 ''Besides being fun and adventurous getting to cruise around town without any doors, you can put four people in for double dating.'' said Mr. Brown, a chiropractor, who shares his GEM with his wife, Becky. ''I could be on the payroll for GEM.'' Since he's been showing his around, he said, ''I'm sure that no less than 20 people have told me that they're going to buy one.''
 Mr. Trevino and his wife, Kerry, defy the barking dogs to ride out often in their GEM, with their 20-month-old son in a car seat. They liked the car so much that they bought three more, which they rent out to vacationers at nearby hotels.
 ''Our son loves it,'' Ms. Trevino said. And Mr. Trevino added, ''Most of our renters have kids because the kids are like, 'Oh, let's go rent that thing.' ''
 The GEM has obvious environmental and economic advantages -- no emissions, and so what if gasoline prices rise -- and Mr. Trevino points out that it's visible on the road, ''as tall as a minivan.'' But it won't replace the family car. Its maximum speed is 25 miles an hour, and the federal government classes it as a neighborhood electric vehicle, limited to roadways where the speed limit is no higher than 35. It is not required to have heavy-duty bumpers or air bags, though it does have to carry three-point seat belts, headlights, brake lights and turn signals. And though it can be recharged in the family garage, plugged into an ordinary 120-volt household outlet, for as little as 50 cents, Daimler said, depending on local electric rates, it needs a recharge after 20 to 30 miles. Where the cars are street legal, they are subject to registration and insurance rules that apply to ordinary vehicles.
 So far, at least, Daimler has no plans to make the GEM faster or to increase its range, and no strategy to use it as a wedge into selling full-size electric cars. Many of the 28,000 GEM's the company estimates are now being driven in the United States are used on internal roadways at places like college campuses and state parks, or by police officers giving out parking tickets, and many of those were donated to government agencies or nonprofit groups in an aggressive 18-month giveaway program begun in 1998 to put them into circulation. (Some, like the four at Grand Central Terminal in Manhattan, spend most of their time inside buildings.) Daimler's initial interest in GEM's was to meet a mandate, now defunct, that a small percentage of automobiles distributed in California and New York would have to produce no emissions.
 The company still makes occasional donations. It is lending 38 GEM's for use by delegates at the Group of 8 economic conference on Sea Island, Ga., next week -- one, an American-flag-festooned four-seater, is for President Bush. But, to Daimler's delight, the GEM is also attracting customers at dealerships (dozens of GEM dealers, in several states, are listed at www.gemcar.com). Buyers pay $7,000 for a base model to $13,000 for one that's fully loaded.
 According to Richard Kasper, president of the GEM division, the car is turning a profit. And though he wouldn't release actual sales figures, he said in an interview in Fargo last month that sales for 2004 were running 30 percent above projections.
 The Global Electric Motorcar was the brainchild of Dan Sturges, now director of Mobility Lab, an automotive research center in Southern California that he founded in 2001. He first envisioned the GEM when he was an automotive-design student at the Art Center College of Design in Pasadena in 1986. ''I was just interested in the future,'' he said in a telephone interview last month. ''When I couldn't find any manufacturers to produce any prototypes, I set about to start up a company.''
 That company attracted backing and made the trans2, a GEM forerunner, in Livonia, Mich. But after 350 were sold, at $7,000 each, the molded plastic body panels began to weep an oily fluid that ruined the finish, required a recall and essentially bankrupted the company. A private investor from Fargo bought its assets for under $300,000 to start Global Electric Motorcars, began production and sold GEM for ''somewhere north of $30 million'' two years later, Mr. Sturges said. He is philosophical about missing the windfall, expressing gratitude that the car was kept alive.
 On a stormy afternoon last month, Mr. Kasper proudly showed off the sparkling 100,000-square-foot plant in Fargo, which employs 80 people and is capable of turning out 200 GEM's a day. Skeletal, evolving cars hung from a mobile assembly line.
 At the early stages, components like disc brakes and the G.E. engine, which spins backward to charge the battery during braking or coasting, were bolted to a tubular steel frame. Soon came the windshield and six lead-acid batteries, rechargeable through 3,500 to 5,000 miles. Toward the end of the line, cars picked up options like doors, a pickup truck bed, a plastic trunk or a clip-in carrier for golf bags.
 Inside a door-equipped $10,000 GEM, Mr. Kasper pointed out the slide-down windows, windshield wiper and stereo, and a heater-defroster that the GEM communications manager, Christopher Mohs, said was powerful enough to get him comfortably to work in a North Dakota winter. Mr. Kasper showed off the simple controls -- a fast-or-slow switch, blinkers, horn and a digital display of speed and charge level.
 Off for a ride with four people aboard, the little GEM surged forward, creating a pleasant whirring hum. Like any electric, it produces prodigious torque, which gets it up to speed in a hurry, yet it rides smoothly. There is no shifting of gears or engine smoke, just pure, quiet energy. At speed, it was at once reminiscent of a golf cart and a small sports car.
 With this little car, suited to the short trips that are most common for Americans, Daimler is staying in a business others have left. Ford and General Motors both sold electrics, including larger cars, in the 1990's, but have ended their programs and called back their full-size models for crushing. (Many big automakers focus instead on gas-electric hybrids and fuel-cell vehicles.)
 LARRY OSWALD, GEM's chief executive, said that at first Daimler's attitude was ''simply the realization that these cars would qualify and with minimum investment, at least meet the letter'' of the no-emissions mandate. Then, he said, ''I think there was a transition of thinking.''
 Now GEM's seem to be finding niches in the market.
 Don Jenkins an entrepreneur in Key West, Fla., rents them to tourists and locals who quietly ply the streets of Key West, and more recently, Myrtle Beach, S.C. He said that electricity to charge the 30 cars on his main lot runs only around $140 a month. He gets $29 to $39 for two-hour rentals and $139 to $189 overnight, and has no trouble finding customers. ''It feels good to drive one,'' he said. ''They're not real cheap to rent, but 99 percent of renters seem very happy that they did.''
 Two years ago, Larry Dustman of Chandler, Ariz., bought a GEM to get around his home at Stellar Air Park, a fly-in community of 500 homes where, he said, there are now at least 11 other GEM's. A loophole in Arizona law at the time allowed buyers a $10,000 state refund on a new clean-air vehicle, making GEM's essentially free. The state soon closed the loophole, but Mr. Dustman was so smitten that he started NEV Accessories, a GEM accessories business, alongside his longtime sales of add-ons for the Thing, a utilitarian VW sold in the United States in the 1970's.
 Today, he offers GEM add-ons like front and rear towing hitches, roof racks and high-performance wheel setups, including burly off-road knobbies or larger-radius wheels with low-profile tires, that can speed a GEM up to 30 or 35 m.p.h. Custom gearing can make them go even faster, though Mr. Dustman warns that this is not for use on public roads. He also builds custom steel beds, boxes and a hot box for GEM-based food vendors and is trying to develop rooftop solar energy collectors that will let the car recharge itself.
 Back in Laguna Beach, the section of the Pacific Coast Highway that runs through town is often full of Hummers, BMW's, Cadillac Escalades and other vehicles far larger and faster than the GEM. While this tends to keep the Trevinos on the back streets, Mr. Brown motors along on the main drag unconcerned.
 ''People come up close behind you because you're only going 25 miles per hour,'' he said. ''I know they have to get places quickly, but at the same time, I want to make them aware that there's a different way of doing things. Plus, I mean, you get to stop and smell the roses.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: LOCAL ATTRACTIONS -- John Trevino, left, and Tim Brown get a lot of stares with their GEM's. ''I have dogs bark at me because they've never seen a car like this,'' Mr. Trevino says. (Photo by J. Emilio Flores for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOGS (90%); BEACHES (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (76%); LEISURE TRAVEL (74%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (71%); HOTELS & MOTELS (69%); GASOLINE MARKETS (64%); EMISSIONS (62%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (50%); PRICE INCREASES (50%); OIL & GAS PRICES (50%); GASOLINE PRICES (50%) 

ORGANIZATION: Daimlerchrysler Ag

PERSON: John Trevino; Tim Brown; Chris Dixon

GEOGRAPHIC: FARGO, ND, USA (56%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2004



65 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 401 words

HEADLINE: In Search of the Best Break, Defense, Vintage, Bet and Exit

BYLINE: By DEAN E. MURPHY

 BODY:

The Company President
Excuse Me, This Is Henderson, Not Las Vegas
 Dane H. Madsen is in Vegas denial. 
 He hates to gamble. He is not a party guy. His favorite ice cream is vanilla.
 Mr. Madsen has not stepped foot on the Strip in more than a year. It is hard to get him to even say the V-word.
 ''I live in Henderson,'' he said, ''about one and a half miles from the office. I love it here.''
 Henderson is the distending labyrinth of walled subdivisions, shopping centers and business parks that begins at some vague point in the sand south of Las Vegas. Though it might all look like the same city to the uninitiated, Mr. Madsen has built his life -- both personal and professional -- around severing the two.
 ''People think about Las Vegas, they think about one thing: casinos,'' Mr. Madsen said. ''Henderson is about people. We are very much a community. We are nine inches and 20 years away.''
 Nine inches is the curb width in Henderson's splendidly master-planned neighborhoods, and 20 years ago is when Mr. Madsen says Las Vegas last shared Henderson's values: quietly proud and family-oriented, not flashy or raunchy. 
 Mr. Madsen, whose wife, Lisa, is a local prosecutor, first arrived in southern Nevada on Aug. 17, 1988, transferred here from Seattle by Shearson Lehman Brothers. The shock of that moment remains etched in his mind. He even recalls that the temperature was 78 degrees at 6:30 a.m.
 Mr. Madsen, 46, has come and gone as his jobs have changed. Now the president of Yellowpages.com, he moved the company here two years ago from the San Francisco Bay Area. The expense of staying in California was killing the firm, which relies heavily on telemarketing sales for its online listings, and the Nevada authorities extended a welcome.
 In the latest enticement, the company was given tax breaks by the Nevada Commission on Economic Development on $1.5 million in purchases as part of an expansion. Mr. Madsen, who employs about 125 people, expects to add 200 more in a sparkling new headquarters that has an upper floor overlooking Henderson's infinite tracts of red-tile rooftops (and ever so distant on the horizon, the Strip).
 Already sold on a Henderson address himself, Mr. Madsen said his backers on Wall Street insisted upon it when he relocated here.
 ''They would prefer to explain for one hour where Henderson is rather than why Las Vegas is not a problem,'' he said. DEAN E. MURPHY


GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: YELLOW PAGES ADVERTISING (78%); RELOCATIONS (75%); TELEMARKETING (70%); RETAILERS (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (65%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%) 

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: Dean E Murphy; Dane H Madsen

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) NEVADA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) Las Vegas (Nev); Henderson (Nev)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2004



66 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 961 words

HEADLINE: OPEC Raises Quota; Not Much More Oil May Flow

BYLINE: By NEELA BANERJEE

DATELINE: BEIRUT, June 3 

 BODY:
The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries agreed on Thursday to increase its production quotas by two million barrels a day, or 8.5 percent, effective July 1. Industry experts gathered here for OPEC's meeting said that the decision sent a tepid message to oil markets about the group's commitment to lowering prices, which have been around $40 a barrel. 
 Traders responded to the news by bidding up the futures price of oil almost 70 cents a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, but prices dropped later in the day when new Energy Department statistics showed growing supplies of oil, gasoline and other distilled fuels in the United States. Crude oil for July delivery settled in New York at $39.28 a barrel, down 68 cents from Wednesday. 
 Analysts said the problem with OPEC's move was that it would not add any new oil to the market. As a group, OPEC is already overproducing its declared ceiling of 23.5 million barrels a day, set in March, by at least 2 million barrels. Increasing the quota merely legitimizes what is already happening, they said. 
 The 10 voting members of OPEC -- voting rights of Iraq, the 11th member, have not been restored yet -- said they would raise daily quotas by an additional 500,000 barrels on Aug. 1. The group is scheduled to meet again on July 21 in Vienna to review market conditions.
 ''They're not doing anything,'' said Roger Diwan, managing director of PFC Energy, a Washington consulting firm. ''There's no sense of urgency.'' Referring to the probable effect on prices, he added, ''It's a bullish signal to the market; if you were expecting a change of policy in Beirut, come again.''
 The thinking within OPEC may have been best summed up by the Algerian oil minister, Chakib Khelil. In an interview, Mr. Khelil said that there was already enough crude oil in the world, and that other factors besides the supply were responsible for the high prices. But OPEC, he said, nevertheless needed to send a message to the market that it, too, was concerned about the run-up. 
 ''Consumers have been asking for it,'' he said of the quota increase. ''What do you think would have happened if we had not done this?''
 Even so, said Michael Fitzpatrick, vice president for energy risk management at Fimat USA, a New York brokerage house, ''the OPEC decision is a little disappointing'' because it will have little practical effect on supplies. Mr. Fitzpatrick said prices fell on Thursday afternoon because ''people were looking past the meeting'' and focusing on the strong inventory figures in the United States, which were attributed in part to the largest oil and gasoline imports in nearly two years. 
 That inventory growth may be the first tangible sign of increased output, outside official OPEC quotas, from Saudi Arabia, the only producer with significant spare capacity. Almost all other countries are already pumping at capacity. 
 The Saudis said on May 23 at an industry conference in Amsterdam that they would step up their production, at the same time calling for OPEC to increase its quotas by 2.5 million barrels a day. To them and some other members of the group, a sustained price of $40 a barrel or more poses the threat of slowing global economic growth and weakening the demand for oil.
 Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham expressed a similar view in a statement Thursday welcoming the OPEC decision and saying that ''oil-producing and consuming countries have shared interests and mutual responsibilities in fostering economic growth.''
 According to Vera de Ladoucette, senior director for Middle East Research with Cambridge Energy Research Associates, a consulting group, Saudi Arabia could pump as much as 9.1 million barrels a day in June, compared with 8.3 million barrels last month, adding that this could go even higher later in the year. 
 But analysts said the market might have been looking for a stronger stand from OPEC as a group, and not just the Saudis. ''The market is looking for solidarity,'' said Falah Aljibury, an independent oil analyst. ''It's a compromise that's not fully behind the Saudi proposal. The Saudis are concerned about high prices; others are concerned, but I'm not sure if some other members understand the gravity of the situation.''
 Mr. Aljibury and others said Iran might have dug in its heels against endorsing the full increase of 2.5 million barrels a day proposed by the Saudis. Iran, which usually advocates high prices, has no spare capacity, analysts said, so it stands to gain nothing from an increase in quotas.
 OPEC is also hesitant to open the taps all the way because of the view that the recent run-up in prices had relatively little to do with production levels. Rather, many members say, worries about political turbulence in Iraq, Nigeria and Venezuela and terrorist attacks in Saudi Arabia, like the one in Khobar last weekend, have added $6 to $8 a barrel to the wholesale price of crude oil.
 Analysts said a number of OPEC countries also feared that increasing production could create a glut once these worries subsided, leading to a sharp price decline.
 Whether Thursday's decision will have any lasting effect on oil prices will not become clear for several weeks, given Saudi Arabia's decision to step up output and the time lag between production and delivery.
 The outcome of the meeting does indicate that all OPEC members, including Saudi Arabia, are much more comfortable with high oil prices than their customers are.
 ''No one ever got fired for making too much money,'' an oil trader, who spoke about OPEC on condition of anonymity, said. ''Their budgets are doing great. You see it everywhere in these countries, with all the new building going on'' in the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Not Much Give in the Pipeline''Most members of OPEC already exceed their quotas. Saudi Arabia is the only country that can increase its current production by more than a million barrels a day.Saudi ArabiaCURRENT QUOTA: 7.64APRIL 2004 PRODUCTION: 8.30CAPACITY*TOTAL: 9.50UNUSED: 1.20IraqCURRENT QUOTA: --APRIL 2004 PRODUCTION: 2.38CAPACITY*TOTAL: 2.80UNUSED: 0.42U.A.E.CURRENT QUOTA: 2.05APRIL 2004 PRODUCTION: 2.10CAPACITY*TOTAL: 2.45UNUSED: 0.35NigeriaCURRENT QUOTA: 1.94APRIL 2004 PRODUCTION: 2.35CAPACITY*TOTAL: 2.55UNUSED: 0.20IndonesiaCURRENT QUOTA: 1.22APRIL 2004 PRODUCTION: 0.98CAPACITY*TOTAL: 1.10UNUSED: 0.12IranCURRENT QUOTA: 3.45APRIL 2004 PRODUCTION: 3.88CAPACITY*TOTAL: 4.00UNUSED: 0.12QatarCURRENT QUOTA: 0.61APRIL 2004 PRODUCTION: 0.74CAPACITY*TOTAL: 0.85UNUSED: 0.11AlgeriaCURRENT QUOTA: 0.75APRIL 2004 PRODUCTION: 1.15CAPACITY*TOTAL: 1.25UNUSED: 0.10LibyaCURRENT QUOTA: 1.26APRIL 2004 PRODUCTION: 1.46CAPACITY*TOTAL: 1.55UNUSED: 0.09KuwaitCURRENT QUOTA: 1.89APRIL 2004 PRODUCTION: 2.21CAPACITY*TOTAL: 2.30UNUSED: 0.09VenezuelaCURRENT QUOTA: 2.70APRIL 2004 PRODUCTION: 2.52CAPACITY*TOTAL: 2.35UNUSED: --Figures in millions of barrels a dayIraq is not currently assigned a quota by OPEC.*Levels that can be sustained for 90 days or longer
countries can exceed those levels for shorter periods. Iraq's capacity is a prewar estimate.(Sources by Platts
 International Energy Agency)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); GASOLINE (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); GASOLINE MARKETS (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (72%); SECURITIES BROKERS (71%); INTERVIEWS (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%) 

COMPANY: NEWEDGE GROUP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%); INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (59%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%) Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries; Energy Department

INDUSTRY: NAICS523140 COMMODITY CONTRACTS BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS523130 COMMODITY CONTRACTS DEALING (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%)

PERSON: Neela Banerjee

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (90%); VIENNA, AUSTRIA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); LEBANON (90%); ALGERIA (79%); AUSTRIA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2004



67 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Paris Journal; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 909 words

HEADLINE: Tennis Everyone? In France in Spring, All Come Running

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO; Helene Fouquet contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: PARIS, June 3 

 BODY:
Sometimes tennis has little to do with hitting a ball over a net.
 Sure, the French take the game seriously, and the two-week spring ritual known as the French Open -- or Roland Garros in France -- attracts the world's best players. But as important as the defeat of the Williams sisters on Wednesday is the action off the court.
 Even the real Mr. Garros was not much of a tennis player. A record-breaking aviator who preferred rugby, he spent three years in a German prison camp and then escaped, only to be killed in battle in 1918. But he was such a popular hero that France named its international tennis tournament and stadium after him. 
 So perhaps it is not surprising that the Roland Garros complex on the edge of the Bois de Boulogne is a somewhat artificial world. The 20-acre, 19-court site is at once an upscale theme park and an open-air corporate boardroom. Here, deals are done, products are promoted, hooky is played, Frenchness is celebrated.
 In the past few days, Sting and Jean-Paul Belmondo have turned up. Last weekend, Interior Minister Dominique de Villepin played a game of doubles on a side court.
 ''It's the first open-air event of the season, a reminder that it's time to leave the office and capture the feeling of well-being,'' said Fabien Grobon, the tournament's director of corporate sponsors. ''The women are beautiful, the atmosphere is pleasant, the food is good.''
 Undeniably, the mystique of tennis and France is inseparable from Roland Garros.
 Unlike Flushing Meadows, the semi-industrial mega-stadium in Queens where the United States Open is played, Roland Garros is set amid hydrangeas, bamboo, red and purple bougainvillea and maple, chestnut and palm trees.
 It is the only Grand Slam tournament played on clay (three inches of limestone coated with crushed red brick), allowing linesmen to inspect ball marks with Cartesian precision.
 Roses have been specially bred for Roland Garros. (The Steffi Graf is large and pink; the Flushing Meadows is small and coral-colored.) The center court is lined with perfectly trimmed red geraniums.
 Hostesses with the French Tennis Federation, which runs the tournament, wear tight-fitting white suits and pointy pumps designed by Dior. The food concessions smell of Belgian waffles and Nutella, not Crisco.
 Important games are broadcast not only on French television but also to more than 190 other countries. In fact, only about 20 percent of the tournament's revenue is drawn from ticket sales; the rest comes from television rights and corporate sponsoring. That helps makes Roland Garros one of the country's biggest marketing events, generating nearly $240 million in revenues last year for the French economy.
 Next to the center court, L'Ecole des Hautes Etudes Commerciales, France's elite business school, has a private area of tables and chairs partly hidden by trees and sun umbrellas where alumni can meet friends and business contacts.
 Sponsors like Adidas and I.B.M. use private boxes at courtside and corporate spaces at private restaurants to reward their best clients with free Champagne and meals.
 BNP Paribas, the French bank and the main corporate sponsor, invites 5,600 guests to the tournament every year. Its most successful media moment in recent years came in 2001 when former President Bill Clinton sat in the tennis federation's V.I.P. box just above the BNP Paribas banner.
 ''The impact is enormous for us,'' said Antoine Sire, director of communications for the bank. The annual investment of nearly $10 million is, he added, ''very good value for the money.''
 Roland Garros also brings together dozens of French and foreign corporations that rent booths and hawk their wares to potential customers.
 One of those, Al Jazeera Sport, a new satellite television channel of the Al Jazeera Arabic-language news service, is broadcasting Roland Garros matches to the Arab world. 
 In central Paris, meanwhile, tennis themes abound. Louis Vuitton is featuring a $2,700 leather tennis racquet carrier with a shoulder strap. Chanel has $550 high-heeled sandals with net heels and monogrammed tennis-ball pompoms on the toe.
 Peugeot, one of the main sponsors, manufacturers a special Roland Garros car every year.
 But on another level, Roland Garros is a great leveler of French society, thrusting together the political, business and social elite with ordinary lovers of what used to be an exclusively upper class sport.
 ''You have people who come with their sandwiches full of mayonnaise, who open their umbrella when there is just a drop of rain and forget to close their cellphones,'' said Anne-Marie Waser, a sports sociologist and author of a book on the democratization of tennis in France. ''And you have the connoisseurs, those who created the Roland Garros ambiance, who keep quiet and eat their strawberries with whipped cream. The two groups have to coexist. That's democratization.''
 There is an ambitious plan to build a satellite stadium on a nearby plot of land if Paris succeeds in becoming the site for the Summer Olympics in 2012. But the project is bitterly opposed by some neighbors and politicians who feel that the Roland Garros already has too much of an impact on Paris.
 ''The Roland Garros people are very good in business and want to make money and that's perfectly fine,'' said Francois Douady, president of a group called the Preservation of the Bois de Boulogne. ''But we cannot let them grab more pieces of the green parts of Paris.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A general view of the French Open at Roland Garros, which is at once an upscale theme park and a corporate boardroom. The action off court is an important as that on it, generating huge sums for the French economy. (Photo by Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)
Outside the central court, a video screen records the scene inside. The bronze statue is of Henri Cochet, a French champion of the 1930's. (Photo by Eric Travers/Pascal le Floch/Gamma, for The New York Times)
A page in the magazine Le Nouvel Observateur last week celebrating a ''Roland Garros Trend,'' left. A Chanel handbag had a similar theme. (Photo by Francois Boissonnet/Le Nouvel Observateur)
 (Photo by Chanel) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TENNIS (91%); SPORTS (91%); TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); SPONSORSHIP (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (83%); ATHLETES (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (71%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (67%); EXECUTIVES (67%); TICKET SALES (65%) 

PERSON: SERENA WILLIAMS (58%); DOMINIQUE DE VILLEPIN (58%); VENUS WILLIAMS (58%) Elaine Sciolino

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (73%) FRANCE (98%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2004



68 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 544 words

HEADLINE: New Haven Project Wins Governor a Warm Reception

BYLINE: By AVI SALZMAN

DATELINE: NEW HAVEN, June 3 

 BODY:
Gov. John G. Rowland was treated to a standing ovation on the stage at the Long Wharf Theater on Thursday as he announced a $230 million project to move the theater and a local community college downtown, the largest development effort in the city in 30 years.
 Mr. Rowland, who has found that he can still rally support outside Hartford as he deals with a federal investigation and a House impeachment inquiry, also received effusive praise from fellow politicians, including John DeStefano Jr., the New Haven mayor who had previously called on Mr. Rowland to resign. 
 ''We're really going to bring back our cities,'' Mr. Rowland said as he stood under the stage lighting in front of a packed house on Thursday. ''We have a mission to finish, and it's been an incredible mission.''
 The governor has supported arts and education projects as engines of economic and civic resurgence in Connecticut's cities, pouring money into new campuses, theaters and housing for artists.
 The New Haven development will include a 300-room hotel and conference center, retail shops and 280 residential units. To make room, two buildings will be demolished -- the New Haven Coliseum, which was closed in 2002, and the former Macy's and Malley's department stores. The state has pledged $180 million to the project, though the city will pay for the demolition of the coliseum, which is expected to cost $6 million. The theater will raise private funds to pay for the balance of the project.
 The Long Wharf Theater was built in a vacant warehouse 40 years ago, an artistic anomaly in a neighborhood near New Haven Harbor filled with commercial and industrial businesses. The theater has since gained a national reputation for producing award-winning plays, including three Pulitzer Prize-winning world premieres.
 Gateway Community College, with campuses on Long Wharf and in North Haven, has grown 50 percent over the past five years and now serves 11,000 students. 
 Mr. DeStefano, a Democrat who has announced his intentions to run for governor in 2006, thanked Mr. Rowland for ''the respect he's shown to the New Haven community.''
 The lighthearted mood continued throughout the afternoon. When one speaker introduced Mr. Rowland, she began to call him the governor of Wisconsin, before stopping herself. Mr. Rowland laughed it off, joking that ''we're a lot smaller than Wisconsin.''
 But much of the governor's day was more somber.
 At an event earlier Thursday in Berlin, Conn., Mr. Rowland signed a bill to toughen drunken-driving laws, saying the issue had particular meaning for him because his uncle and namesake, John Grosvenor Rowland, was killed by a drunken driver in the front yard of his home more than 50 years ago. The governor took questions from reporters after signing the bill, but he said little when asked about the impeachment inquiry. Mr. Rowland, a Republican, has filed a lawsuit challenging a subpoena from the House committee investigating him.
 ''Let the courts do their work,'' he said. ''Let the committee do their work.''
 A new poll released on Thursday by Quinnipiac University showed that 88 percent of the 1,350 Connecticut residents surveyed want the governor to testify before the committee. Sixty-nine percent, the poll showed, think he should resign.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. John G. Rowland, center, Mayor John DeStefano Jr., left, and Richard C. Levin, the president of Yale. (Photo by Associated Press)Map of New Haven highlighting area for development: A theater and a community college are to move downtown.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); THEATER (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); IMPEACHMENT (71%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (66%); RETAILERS (66%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (62%) Area Planning and Renewal; Hotels and Motels; Theater; Colleges and Universities

ORGANIZATION: Long Wharf Theater; Gateway Community College

PERSON: Avi Salzman; John G (Gov) Rowland; John Jr (Mayor) Destefano

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (92%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%) New Haven (Conn); Connecticut; New Haven (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2004



69 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 535 words

HEADLINE: Crucial Lead Evaporates in Shooting of Woman on Subway

BYLINE: By WILLIAM K. RASHBAUM

 BODY:
Detectives investigating the shooting of a 22-year-old actress on a subway train in Midtown on Tuesday suffered a setback when the man who they suspected fired a bullet through her shoulder came forward and they determined that he was not the gunman, officials said yesterday.
 The man, described as scruffy and in his 30's, with wavy blond hair, had been seen by a number of witnesses hurrying out of the car on the northbound W train as it pulled into the Times Square station, after several passengers heard a loud pop, looked up and saw the young woman, Monica Meadows, bleeding from her shoulder, officials have said. But none of the witnesses who have been interviewed by detectives actually saw the shooting; they only saw the man running from the train moments after they heard the gunshot. 
 The man -- whose name was not released yesterday but who a police official said looked exactly like the sketch made based on witness accounts -- walked into the Midtown South Precinct station house on Wednesday afternoon. He gave detectives his account of the shooting, saying that he, too, heard a pop, looked up and saw the woman bleeding and fled the subway car. Based on his MetroCard, detectives were able to determine that he indeed entered a station on the W line shortly before the shooting, and investigators believed his account of the incident, a police official said.
 ''The blond guy that everyone described as running away -- as the shooter -- is not the shooter,'' an official said. ''He was sitting there, heard the pop and said, 'I'm getting out of here.'''
 The development left investigators with few leads in the shooting.
 Ms. Meadows was discharged from Bellevue Hospital Center around lunchtime yesterday and would not talk to reporters gathered outside. She was scheduled to appear on the ''Today'' show this morning. 
 The police official would say little about the man, other than that he is unemployed. Another official said, ''It's midday on a Manhattan subway, and you had the cross-section of the world you find there, and he's just a piece of that cross-section.''
 The man was the second who matched the sketch; the police had earlier interviewed a former roommate of Ms. Meadows, but the man, Michael Babel, was able to produce bank records showing that he had made a deposit around the time of the shooting, an account supported by a woman he was with.
 The setback has left detectives looking for more witnesses who were aboard the W train when the shooting occurred just after 2 p.m. near the Times Square station, several officials said. They are asking anyone with information to call the Crime Stoppers hot line, (800) 577-TIPS (800-577-8477).
 The police think roughly 20 to 25 people were in the train car when Ms. Meadows was shot, based largely on witness accounts, and detectives have interviewed about 10, one investigator said. But even the number of passengers in the train car is difficult to gauge. ''You don't count the number of people on the train as long as you have a seat,'' the investigator said.
 Yesterday, detectives were putting up posters along the W line, handing out fliers and talking to people in an effort to find anyone who saw the shooting, officials said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The police are trying to find witnesses to the shooting of a woman on a subway train in Midtown on Tuesday. (Photo by John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (91%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); POLICE FORCES (89%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (89%); TRAINS (78%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (78%) Murders and Attempted Murders; Subways

PERSON: William K Rashbaum; Monica Meadows

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2004



70 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 3; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 3714 words

HEADLINE: THEATER GUIDE

 BODY:

A selective listing by critics of The Times: Broadway shows nominated for Tony Awards, and shows that are closing this weekend. Approximate running times are in parentheses. * denotes a highly recommended show.
+ means discounted tickets were at the Theater Development Fund's TKTS booth for performances last Friday and Saturday nights.

Broadway

* ''ASSASSINS.'' This is what they always wanted, isn't it? A clear shot at the big time, where people would have to pay attention to them? More than a decade after they first surfaced to critical shudders and head-scratching, the unhappy have-nots of ''Assassins'' -- the glitteringly dark musical by Stephen Sondheim and John Weidman about Americans who dream of killing their country's presidents -- have finally made it to Broadway. So can these desperate people, whose greatest fear is of being thought small, actually expand in proportion to the lavish production they have been given? Oh boy, can they ever. Accompanied by a sumptuously full orchestra and portrayed by a cast that finds the magnetism in rage and resentment, the frightening title characters of ''Assassins'' are restating their demand to be noticed in this Roundabout Theater Company production. And under Joe Mantello's direction, they are doing so with an eloquence and an intensity that make a compelling case for a show once regarded as a mere curiosity as a major piece from a major composer (1:50). Studio 54, 254 West 54th Street, (212) 719-1300. Tuesdays, Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 2 p.m. Tickets: $36.25 to $91.25 (Ben Brantley).

* ''AVENUE Q.'' The inspired brainchild of the songwriters Robert Lopez and Jeff Marx, this canny toy chest of a musical takes its stylistic cues from ''Sesame Street,'' from its cheery urban set to its singing puppets of assorted colors and dispositions. And in doing so it becomes the first mainstream musical since ''Rent'' to coo with such seductive directness to theatergoers on the fair side of 40 in their own language, in which irony is less a mind-set than a loosely worn style. Directed by Jason Moore, with a book by Jeff Whitty, the show applies the coaxing, learning-is-fun attitude of children's educational television to the R-rated situations of postcollegiate life in the big city. Featuring a pitch-perfect ensemble of live performers and oversize hand puppets, ''Avenue Q'' is to ''Sesame Street'' what Mel Brooks's ''Producers'' is to vintage Broadway musicals: a connoisseur's tribute to what it only seems to send up (2:10). Golden, 252 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 2 and 7 p.m. Tickets: $46.25 to $91.25, with a limited number of $21.25 tickets available by lottery at the theater at 5:30 p.m. for the evening show and at 11:30 a.m. for the matinee (Brantley).

''BOMBAY DREAMS.'' Colors don't come any juicier than those that saturate this $14 million musical about movie-love Bollywood-style. Scarcely a scene goes by that isn't splashed with gorgeous heaping helpings of oranges, golds, greens, purples, yellows and more shades of pink than even Estee Lauder had names for. Yet such is the perverse spell cast by this friendly, flat and finally unengaging tale of glamorous movie stars and lovable untouchables that everything seems to melt into one neutral blur before your eyes, like a monochromatic symphony in the key of beige. A R Rahman's score has a certain rhythmic infectiousness. And as a self-centered Bollywood screen siren, the deliciously superficial Ayesha Dharker helps turn the central production numbers into lively paeans to Bollywood kitsch. But under the direction of Steven Pimlott, this retooling of a hit from London feels trapped in a listless limbo between tipsy spoof and sober sincerity (2:30). Broadway Theater, 1681 Broadway, at 53rd Street, (212) 239-6200. Tuesdays through Saturdays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $42.25 to $101.25 (Brantley).

''THE BOY FROM OZ.'' Hugh Jackman's shoulders must ache like the devil when he wakes up in the morning. This able-bodied, infinitely appealing young man is spending most of his nights engaged in some painfully heavy lifting that no shoulders, no matter how broad, should be asked to attempt. That's what happens when you put an indisputably authentic star like Mr. Jackman at the center of an indisputably bogus show like ''The Boy From Oz,'' the bathetic musical biography of the Australian entertainer and songwriter Peter Allen, directed by Philip Wm. McKinley. Were it not for Mr. Jackman, there would be no reason to recommend this backstage, back-story look at show business. But let it be said that the electric Mr. Jackman, best known for the ''X-Men'' movies, never looks as if he's even thinking about shrugging this soggy cardboard world of a show off his shoulders (2:30). Imperial, 249 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. Tuesdays through Saturdays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $61.25 to $101.25 (Brantley).

+ ''CAROLINE, OR CHANGE.'' A carefully wrought, impeccably performed chamber opera from Tony Kushner (''Angels in America'') and Jeanine Tesori (''Thoroughly Modern Millie''), directed by George C. Wolfe. In temperament this sung-through show is much like its stoical, uncompromising title character (Tonya Pinkins), a black maid for a Southern Jewish family in 1963. A current of self-denial runs through ''Caroline,'' from a libretto that refuses to sentimentalize its heroine to its deliberately fragmented score that avoids anthems of uplift. The tone throughout is evenhanded, slightly distanced compassion as people of different classes are revealed as pawns of a corrupting economic structure. Ms. Pinkins, who has never been better, gives an intense, controlled and commanding performance. In ambition and achievement, ''Caroline'' handily tops this season's new musicals. But it is almost too good to be good (2:35). Eugene O'Neill Theater, 230 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200. Tuesdays at 7 p.m.; Wednesdays through Saturdays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $26 to $101 (Brantley).

+ ''FIDDLER ON THE ROOF.'' Should the entertainment entrepreneurs of Branson, Mo., ever come up with a pavilion called Shtetl Land, this is what it would be like. In David Leveaux's handsomely mounted, antiseptically acted revival of this beloved musical of Jewish life in Russia, circa 1900, the ensemble members go through their paces of song, dance and Yiddish humor with a bland, dutiful cheer that rarely turns into anything more robust. It's a pretty, prim production that is bafflingly devoid of gusto, earthiness and warmth. An aura of enervation starts at the top of the cast, with Alfred Molina's apologetic performance as Tevye the milkman, and penetrates like a paralyzing fog into even the smallest roles. Tom Pye's set is lovely to look at, and the orchestra sounds swell. But a ''Fiddler'' without a soul has no reason to be (3:00). Minskoff, 200 West 45th Street, (212) 307-4100. Tuesdays at 7 p.m.; Wednesdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $35 to $100
(Brantley).

*+ ''FROZEN.'' For a play centered on a serial murderer of little girls, Bryony Lavery's humane, intelligent drama is striking for its sustained aura of ordinariness. ''Frozen'' is indeed the story of the brutal killing of a child and its repercussions. Yet no trace of sensationalism colors Doug Hughes's beautifully acted, carefully considered production, which stars Swoosie Kurtz (as the child's mother), Brian F. O'Byrne (as the murderer) and Laila Robins (as an academic specializing in serial killers). The characters, who often speak in monologues, don't so much vent their intense emotions as betray them through involuntary eruptions that they quickly stifle. In the age of the Amber Alert and Megan's Law, ''Frozen'' brings a coolly discursive attitude to a hot-button subject. This is not to say it is in any way unfeeling (2:15). Circle in the Square, 1633 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200. Tuesdays at 7 p.m.; Wednesdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $85 (Brantley).

+ ''GOLDA'S BALCONY.'' In October 1973 a 75-year-old woman who grew up in Milwaukee nearly started a nuclear holocaust. The woman, of course, was the Israeli prime minister, Golda Meir; the occasion was the 1973 Middle East War. As a story, it needs very little help from a dramatist or, for that matter, from a director, a designer, an actor or any other theatrically creative type. Moreover, the elements of the pure narrative are so colossally charged with tension and consequence that understatement is the way to go. ''Golda's Balcony'' doesn't go that way, however. It is not the story of a crucial moment in world history but a ponderous essay wrapped in melodramatic autobiography, acted with a soulless verve by Tovah Feldshuh and presented in a cheesily overwrought production directed by Scott Schwartz (1:30). Hayes, 240 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. Tuesdays through Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 5 and 8:30 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $46.25 and $76.25; a limited number of student rush tickets are available on the day of the performance for $26.25 (Bruce Weber).

*+ ''I AM MY OWN WIFE.'' Doug Wright's one-actor play, with a thrillingly accomplished performance by Jefferson Mays and a diamond-sharp production directed by Moises Kaufman, has made a rewarding transition to Broadway. The play tells a terrific story based on a real person, Charlotte von Mahlsdorf (ne Lothar Berfelde), a soft-spoken but tenaciously gender-bending biological man who died in 2002 at 74. Her lifelong obsession -- Mahlsdorf preferred to be thought of as female -- was the preservation of furniture, especially from the 1890's, and other household relics like Victrolas and gramophones. Her devotion to her astonishing collection, with which she turned her home into a museum, gave focus and motivation to a life whose grandest achievement was that it proceeded to its natural end. The play is largely about Charlotte's enduring the cruel repressions of the Nazis and the Communists, and her harrowing tales of survival through the eras of the Gestapo and the Stasi are nothing short of breathtaking. Ah, but are they credible? That also becomes an issue in the play, which very subtly but, in the end, quite powerfully makes a case for the necessity of storytelling in our lives (2:15). Lyceum, 149 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. Tuesdays, Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $61.25 to $86.25, with $20 student and teacher tickets at box office the day of show (Weber).

*+ ''JUMPERS.'' Acrobatics aren't just for athletes in this high-flying revival of Tom Stoppard's 1972 play. Though the show features an enthusiastic team of bouncing gymnasts, everyone in ''Jumpers'' jumps, in one way or another -- verbally, emotionally, morally. And with a cast headed by Simon Russell Beale, in a dazzling Broadway debut, such exertions turn this comic mystery of murder, marriage and metaphysics into one of the most entertaining exercise sessions available. Leaps of faith, back-flipping politics, somersaulting, self-inverting words and free-falling nervous breakdowns are all on offer in the restless, relativistic world of ''Jumpers.'' The director David Leveaux appropriately serves up a show that never seems to stop spinning. But at the same time, this luscious import from the Royal National Theater of Britain, which also stars the divine Essie Davis, finds a wounded, hungry heart beneath the razzle-dazzle. A play often dismissed as too clever by half now registers clearly as a poignant acknowledgment of the limits of cleverness (2:30). Brooks Atkinson Theater, 256 West 47th Street, (212) 307-4100. Tuesdays through Saturdays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $60 to $95 (Brantley).

+ ''LITTLE SHOP OF HORRORS.'' In the desperate, tourist-courting world of cultural appropriation on Broadway -- which has given us stillborn aberrations like ''Saturday Night Fever'' -- this bland revival of the 1982 musical does not rank as a major offender. It is directed with silky efficiency by Jerry Zaks. Howard Ashman's droll, cliche-bending lyrics and book -- about a florist's nerdy assistant who befriends a people-eating plant -- remain in place, as does Alan Menken's gleeful 1960's-pastiche score. There is also an array of personable, professional young talent, headed by Hunter Foster, Kerry Butler and Douglas Sills. Yet the show has been stripped of the urban grit and parodic wit of the downtown production of two decades ago. The overall effect is, if not exactly pleasurable, then pleasant. As an exercise in recycling, this ''Little Shop'' suggests the conversion of sharp, shiny tin into something closer to Teflon (2:00). Virginia, 245 West 52nd Street, (212) 239-6200. Tuesdays at 7 p.m.; Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 7 p.m. Tickets: $61 to $101 (Brantley).

''A RAISIN IN THE SUN.'' Sean Combs's shadow precedes him in this seriously off-center revival of Lorraine Hansberry's epochal drama of an African-American family in Southside Chicago. Will the very-21st-century figure who is Mr. Combs (a k a P. Diddy), whose career has been a triumph of nerve over probability, be able to evoke a man of thwarted dreams from the mid-20th century? Unfortunately, while the opening, engagingly boyish moments of his performance have promise, his Walter Lee Younger never appears to change, happy or sad, drunk or sober. His evenly measured words and debating team captain's gestures remain pretty much the same. And while Audra McDonald and Phylicia Rashad do sterling work as Walter Lee's wife and mother, much of Kenny Leon's production exudes the single-note perkiness of a sitcom. Instead of contrasting the forces of an older, God-fearing generation with a fresh revolutionary spirit (embodied by Walter Lee and his sister, played by Sanaa Lathan), the show becomes an unwitting counterpoint of mature and callow acting styles (2:30). Royale Theater, 242 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. Tuesdays through Saturdays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $26.25 to $91.25 (Brantley).

''WICKED.'' Even without a broomstick, Kristin Chenoweth flies high. As Glinda the Good Witch in this equally arch and earnest show, a revisionist look at ''The Wizard of Oz,'' Ms. Chenoweth puts across jokes and sight gags that could make angels fall. Yet this dazzling performer never comes close to crashing, providing the essential helium in a show not otherwise endowed with much lightness. Directed by Joe Mantello, with songs by Stephen Schwartz and a book by Winnie Holzman, the show also stars the vulpine vocal powerhouse Idina Menzel as Glinda's dearest rival, Elphaba, a k a the Wicked Witch of the West. The contrast between the women is used to examine a society that values surface over substance. As a parable of fascism and freedom, the show overplays its hand, and Mr. Schwartz's score is heavy on ominously underscored pop anthems (2:50). Gershwin, 222 West 51st Street, (212) 307-4100. Tuesdays at 7 p.m.; Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $40 to $100 (Brantley).

*+ ''WONDERFUL TOWN.'' In this captivating revival of Leonard Bernstein's musical love poem to Manhattan, Donna Murphy gives one of the most dazzlingly accomplished performances you're ever likely to see. As the writer Ruth Sherwood, the role Rosalind Russell slayed 'em with in 1954, Ms. Murphy blithely juggles assorted gleaming styles without ever breaking character. If much of Kathleen Marshall's staging of this tale of dewy Ohio sisters in New York isn't up to Ms. Murphy, well, what would be? Jennifer Westfeldt is charming as Ruth's boy-magnet of a sister. And the orchestra, under the direction of Rob Fisher, is superb, giving ebullient life to Bernstein's lighthearted city symphony of a score. The wisecracking lyrics are by Comden and Green. Gregg Edelman is the manly object of both sisters' affections (2:30). Al Hirschfeld Theater, 302 West 45th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. Tuesdays, Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $51 and $101 (Brantley).

Last Chance

+ ''THE DISTANCE FROM HERE.'' The poetic, brooding wistfulness of the title doesn't quite capture the essence of Neil LaBute's play. A more appropriate name for this less than subtle study of hope-starved American youth might be ''The Crass Menagerie.'' The play begins with two loutish lads hurling themselves against a railing in a zoo to stir up the chimpanzees within, and it's Mr. LaBute's grim joke that just who the real animals are is not an easy call. In his scripts for films like ''In the Company of Men,'' as well as plays like the harrowing ''Bash,'' this highly accomplished artist of misanthropy has reveled in uncovering the feral snarl beneath the bland smiles of middle-class Americans. ''The Distance From Here,'' directed by Michael Greif and featuring the Oscar-winning actress Anna Paquin, focuses on a social underclass of born losers. And despite the best efforts of the intense young cast, there aren't many surprises within all the apathy and anger (1:45). The Duke on 42nd Street, 229 West 42nd Street, (212) 239-6200. Tonight at 8; tomorrow at 2:30 and 8 p.m. Tickets: $50 (Brantley).

+ ''EMBEDDED.'' Even when you're preaching to the choir, it helps if you can make the Gospel come to life. Tim Robbins's series of Brechtian sketches, performed by the Actors' Gang, examines the making and selling of the war in Iraq with such collegiate energy and earnestness that it feels as if it would be only good form to respond with a chorus of indignant amens. Even boos and gasps of disapproval would surely be welcome to Mr. Robbins, the show's writer and director, and his industrious performers. Yet for anyone who has brought an even mildly skeptical eye to the trials and errors of current foreign policy, ''Embedded'' winds up sounding like last Sunday's sermon. Audience members already in sympathy with Mr. Robbins's political views -- the folks, in other words, most likely to attend ''Embedded'' -- will quite possibly go from nodding in agreement to simply nodding off. This sincere, hard-working revue testifies, above all, to the difficulties of keeping satire fresh in the 21st century (1:30). Public Theater/Newman, 425 Lafayette Street, East Village, (212) 239-6200. Tonight and tomorrow night at 7 and 10. Tickets: $50 (Brantley).

''GUINEA PIG SOLO.'' The mesmerizing John Ortiz scales new heights of calisthenic despair in Brett C. Leonard's portrait of a harrowed veteran of the war in Iraq trying to stay sane in New York City. As a lost man with a short fuse, Mr. Ortiz leaps and bounds like an anguished Douglas Fairbanks. The play is a latter-day reworking of ''Woyzeck,'' Georg Buchner's great fragmented drama from the 1830's. But people in Mr. Leonard's world talk a lot more than than Buchner's characters do. This is not an asset. No matter how frenetically delivered, the dialogue and especially the monologues feel cumbersomely overstated, like messages carved in stone. On the other hand, Ian Belton's staging and Mr. Ortiz's performance are both precise and exhaustingly energetic, with some resonant repeated images. A production of the LAByrinth Theater Company, which specializes in lives of desperation that are anything but quiet (2:10). Public Theater/Shiva Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 239-6200. Tonight at 8; tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sunday at 2 p.m. Tickets: $45 (Brantley).

''SARAH SARAH.'' Family stories never end; they revise themselves in each generation. In Daniel Goldfarb's deftly written play, the always splendid, never flashy J. Smith-Cameron stars as Sarah Grosberg, an implacable mother in 1961 Toronto whose adored son, Artie, has just become engaged. His fiancee is too -- well, it's not clear what's wrong with 18-year-old Rochelle Bloom except that Sarah is determined to find nothing right with her. Thanks to cutting dialogue and Mark Nelson's staging, the two women's confrontation becomes a domestic cross-examination. In Act II, 40 years later, Artie is a father who has, with reservations, accompanied his daughter (Ms. Smith-Cameron again) on her trip to China to adopt an orphan. While the ending feels a bit over-sweetened, the actors are a pleasure to watch (1:30). Manhattan Theater Club at City Center Stage II, 131 West 55th Street, (212) 581-1212. Tonight at 7:30; tomorrow at 2:30 and 7:30 p.m.; Sunday at 2:30 p.m. Tickets: $47; a limited number of $25 student rush tickets at box office up to one hour before show time on day of performance (Margo Jefferson).

+ ''TWENTIETH CENTURY.'' In Walter Bobbie's fitful production of Ben Hecht and Charles MacArthur's portrait of battling theatrical egos, adapted by Ken Ludwig, Anne Heche portrays Lily Garland, nee Mildred Plotka. Lily is one of those 1930's movie goddesses who look as if they were born on a sea-wafted half shell, wreathed in white satin. But in Ms. Heche's angular, animated performance that scrappy little floozy named Mildred keeps peeking out from beneath the tinsel. Ms. Heche's self-dramatizing character is a happily unhappy fraud, a shopgirl who became the women she worshiped on the screen. Whenever she's onstage this ''Twentieth Century,'' set on a New York-bound luxury train, picks up speed. Otherwise -- despite the formidable if misapplied charisma of Alec Baldwin in the role of Lily's great love and nemesis, the megalomaniacal theater producer Oscar Jaffe -- this comedy of grand postures and bad manners feels stalled in the 1930's, gathering dust (1:45). American Airlines Theater, 227 West 42nd Street, (212) 719-1300. Tonight at 8; tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sunday at 2 p.m. Tickets: $46.25 to $76.25
(Brantley).


GRAPHIC: Photos: Anne Heche and Alec Baldwin in a revival of ''Twentieth Century.'' (Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)
 Essie Davis and Simon Russell Beale in ''Jumpers,'' on Broadway. (Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (89%); MUSICAL THEATER (89%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (74%); SONG WRITING (74%); MUSIC (74%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (74%); THEATER (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); CITY LIFE (61%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (57%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: ALEC BALDWIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2004



71 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 88 words

HEADLINE: The Economy According to Bush

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 David Brooks (column, June 1) makes the argument that the Bush administration has not done such a bad job on the economy so the ''Bush folks might as well roll the dice with some attention-grabbing domestic ideas.'' 
 That way, he writes, ''if Bush is re-elected, he'll have a mandate to do something big.''
 Given the mess in Iraq and a national debt of $22 trillion, that raises the question, Could our Republic survive a Bush administration with a mandate to do anything bigger?

BETTYE NOWLIN
Austin, Tex., June 1, 2004


CORRECTION-DATE: June 9, 2004

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, a letter on Friday about the Bush administration's economic performance referred imprecisely to the national debt. According to the Federal Reserve, the figure cited, $22 trillion (for 2003), includes borrowing by the federal and local governments, businesses and households, not the federal government alone. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (83%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); NATIONAL DEBT (52%) United States Economy

PERSON: Bettye Nowlin; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (64%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2004



72 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 108 words

HEADLINE: A Penny Saved Is a Penny . . . Spurned?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 For once -- and only once -- I agree with William Safire about something (''Abolish the Penny,'' column, June 2): Pennies are a waste of time and resources, especially with inflation and credit cards.
 Anyone who has traveled in Australia, New Zealand and other penny-wise countries has seen the logic and benefits of rounding up from 3, 4, 8 or 9 and down from 1, 2, 6 and 7.
 When every economic transaction ends in 5 or 0, commerce is more efficient, errors are diminished and bookkeeping is simpler.
 The only downside is that it would no longer make sense to offer a penny for someone's thoughts.

HUGH STEVENS
Raleigh, N.C., June 2, 2004


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) Currency

PERSON: Hugh Stevens

GEOGRAPHIC: RALEIGH, NC, USA (50%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (50%) AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (91%); NEW ZEALAND (90%); AUSTRALIA (70%); UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2004



73 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 106 words

HEADLINE: A Penny Saved Is a Penny . . . Spurned?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 It would be a mistake to abolish the penny. As prices have risen in recent decades, a small basic unit for everyday transactions serves as a psychological brake on inflation. 
 If the penny were removed from circulation, larger stores and chains might round down, as William Safire suggests, but what about the mom-and-pop neighborhood stores? 
 Consumers would feel a small but sure inflationary tug as our everyday prices lost this brake. For those on a fixed income or at the lower end of the income graph, every hedge against inflation helps.
 Let's appreciate, not abolish, the penny.

JUDY STARR
Westport, Conn., June 2, 2004


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) Currency; United States Economy

PERSON: Judy Starr

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2004



74 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 57 words

HEADLINE: A Penny Saved Is a Penny . . . Spurned?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 The penny does serve one important purpose: it is a constant reminder of what inflation, and the deficit spending that caused it, has done to the value of our currency. When I was a youngster in the 1930's, a first-class letter needed a 3-cent stamp, and this rate lasted for years.

SHERMAN SIEGEL
King of Prussia, Pa., June 2, 2004


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (86%) Currency; United States Economy

PERSON: Sherman Siegel

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (84%) UNITED STATES (84%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2004



75 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 154 words

HEADLINE: China Has Changed. Or Has It?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 ''The Tiananmen Victory,'' Nicholas D. Kristof's June 2 column about economic change in China and the political virtues of trade in encouraging democratic trends, is right on the mark. 
 In May 2001, my wife, Ann, and I were in Kunming, on our way to western China and Lhasa beyond as Elderhostel tourists. We discovered that our Kunming lodging, the Green Lake Hotel, was only a little over a mile from a Wal-Mart store.
 So we walked there on a Saturday, and were amazed! Four stories high, it was packed with shoppers and all sorts of merchandise that one sees in the United States: clothes, consumer electronics, power tools, cosmetics and toiletries, foods of all kinds. And the checkout lines were equipped to read bar codes to facilitate payment. The place was completely busy with shoppers. That's when I realized how much our world had already changed.

MICHAEL J. HARRISON
East Lansing, Mich., June 2, 2004


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRENDS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (67%); COSMETICS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Economic Conditions and Trends

PERSON: Michael J Harrison

GEOGRAPHIC: YUNNAN, CHINA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (72%); XIZANG, CHINA (72%) CHINA (96%); TIBET (92%); UNITED STATES (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2004



76 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 533 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Defendants in Enron Case May Have Unusual Help
The defendants in the first criminal fraud trial stemming from the collapse of Enron may have found help from an unlikely source: Andrew S. Fastow, the former executive who is the government's star cooperator.
 Even before the start of the trial, scheduled for Monday, the prosecution's case against four former executives of Merrill Lynch and two former officials of Enron ran into complications when a letter provided by prosecutors to the defense disclosed that Mr. Fastow had made statements in government interviews that could prove favorable to the executives. [Page A1.]

Intel Revises Forecast Upward
Intel said that it expected its revenue for the second quarter to reach the upper end of its earlier forecast, citing stronger than expected sales of chips used in cellular phones. Demand for Intel's central line of products, which includes the microprocessors and chipsets used in personal computers, was in line with the company's expectations at the beginning of the quarter. [C3.]

Judge in Asbestos Cases to Retire
Efforts to resolve the asbestos-related bankruptcy cases of several large companies were most likely hampered by a federal judge's decision to retire and the filing of a lawsuit in one of the cases. [C3.]

Doubts Raised on Banking Security
The Senate Banking Committee took the country's leading financial regulators to task, raising concerns that examiners have overlooked gaps in the global banking system that may pose security risks. [C3.]

Easing of Health Care Inflation Seen
Health care inflation may remain in the single-digit range for another year, according to a new survey of managed care prices. [C6.]

Stewart's Company to Add to Board
Four new directors have been nominated for the board of Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia. [C6.]

Testimony on Tyco Accounting
Tyco International's former general counsel, Mark A. Belnick, was informed of accounting problems at the company during a regulatory investigation, a lawyer testified at Mr. Belnick's criminal trial. [C11.]

Major Stock Indicators Decline
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 67.06 points, to 10,195.91. The Nasdaq composite index slumped 28.72 points, to 1,960.26. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index shed 8.35 points, to 1,116.64. [C6.]

Factory Orders Decline 1.7%
New orders at American factories fell 1.7 percent in April, the biggest drop in a year, the Commerce Department said. [C4.]

Marks & Spencer Rejects Offer
Marks & Spencer, once the undisputed icon of British Main Street retailing, said it had rejected a takeover offer from Philip Green, left, a billionaire entrepreneur who already owns a chain of women's clothing and department stores. Since Mr. Green said he would make an offer -- his second attempt in five years -- Marks & Spencer has responded vigorously, replacing its chief executive and aiming at least to force Mr. Green into a higher offer. [World Business, Section W.]

Europe Leaves Rates Unchanged
The European Central Bank left its main interest rate unchanged 2 percent, saying Europe's economies had perked up in recent months. The bank warned that inflation posed the biggest risk to Europe's economic well-being. [World Business, Section W.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,195.91 down 67.06Nasdaq composite -- 1,960.26 down 28.7210-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.71% down 0.03The euro -- $1.2219 down 0.0007The dollar -- 110.84 yen up 0.78Graph: ''TODAY'' shows unemployment figures from November 2003 to April 2004.UnemploymentMay figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: 5.6%Graph tracks the daily closing price of Intel shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); TESTIMONY (89%); ACCOUNTING (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (79%); LITIGATION (79%); JUDGES (79%); TOXIC TORTS (79%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (75%); COMPUTER CHIPS (75%); LAWYERS (75%); MICROPROCESSORS (75%); NEW ORDERS (74%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); SALES PROJECTIONS (74%); RETAILERS (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); ASBESTOS (72%); TAKEOVERS (72%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (70%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (66%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (65%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (61%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (60%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%); INTEL CORP (84%); MARKS & SPENCER GROUP PLC (81%); TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD (68%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); MARTHA STEWART LIVING OMNIMEDIA INC (53%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (84%); MKS (LSE) (81%); TYC (NYSE) (68%); MSO (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (81%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (81%); NAICS561621 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (EXCEPT LOCKSMITHS) (68%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (68%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (68%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS512191 TELEPRODUCTION & OTHER POSTPRODUCTION SERVICES (53%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (53%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (53%); NAICS423220 HOME FURNISHING MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (53%); NAICS332215 METAL KITCHEN COOKWARE, UTENSIL, CUTLERY & FLATWARE (EXCEPT PRECIOUS) MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS327110 POTTERY, CERAMICS & PLUMBING FIXTURE MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: PHILIP GREEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2004



77 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 583 words

HEADLINE: Positive News on Oil Fails to Rally Major Markets

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Stocks slid yesterday as investors focused on the government's coming employment report, shrugging off a widely expected decision by OPEC to raise its crude oil output. Concern over Intel's midquarter forecast put particular pressure on technology shares, although the report issued after the session was more upbeat than some market participants had expected.
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 67.06 points, or 0.6 percent, to 10,195.91. The broader gauges also closed lower. The Nasdaq composite index slumped 28.72 points, or 1.4 percent, to 1,960.26, largely on weakness in the semiconductor sector. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index shed 8.35 points, or 0.7 percent, to 1,116.64. 
 The Russell 2000 index, which tracks smaller-company stocks, closed down 11.12, or 1.9 percent, at 562.44.
 Investors remained anxious about the effect of higher oil prices on the economy despite the decision by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries to raise its production ceiling by two million barrels a day.
 OPEC agreed to raise the target by an additional 500,000 barrels a day in August if necessary. But with several of OPEC's 11 members already close to their output limits, some analysts are concerned that the group may not be able to pump enough oil to lower prices significantly.
 ''The two major forces in the market today are OPEC and what they had to say, and Intel, and the fears of what they might say,'' said Arthur Hogan, chief market analyst at Jefferies & Company. ''Those are the bookends.''
 After the close, Intel raised its revenue forecast for the second quarter, citing continued strong demand for computer chips. Intel dropped 60 cents, to $27.41, during regular trading on speculation that it might lower its estimate. In the extended session, the company's shares rose.
 With so much uncertainty, there was little reaction to a better-than-expected report from the Labor Department on the productivity of America's workers in the first three months. Labor costs also moved up, which could pressure profit margins.
 The May jobs numbers due today have broader implications. If the number of new jobs generated in May was significantly higher than the 225,000 the market expected, investors fear it could prompt the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates sooner and more sharply than it otherwise might. If the number comes in much lower, it could delay a rate increase but be viewed as a worrisome sign that the economic recovery is stalling.
 Reflecting continued concern about expected interest rate increases, Bank of America adjusted its view of the insurance sector, downgrading its recommendation on the Allstate Corporation and the Hartford Financial Services Group to a ''neutral'' from a ''buy.'' Allstate shed 76 cents, to $43.46; Hartford Financial lost 59 cents, to $65.75.
 Many retailers reported strong monthly sales in May after consumers pulled back in April amid rising energy costs. Wal-Mart Stores gained 25 cents, to $56.60, after announcing a 5.9 percent increase in May sales.
 Sears, Roebuck, however, reported a bigger than expected drop in sales. Its share price declined $1, to $37.13.
 Declining issues outnumbered advancers by nearly 3 to 1 on the New York Stock Exchange. Volume was light.
 United States Treasury prices rose yesterday. The price of the benchmark 10-year note rose 7/32, to 100 10/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction of the price, fell to 4.71 percent, from 4.74 percent on Wednesday.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)Chart: ''Freddie Mac Yields''Average for some Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. securities, plotted weekly.30-year: 5.78%15-year: 5.13%Graph tracks average for some Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. securities, plotted weekly since February.(Source by F.H.L.M.C.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); ELECTRONICS (79%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); MINING OUTPUT (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (77%); MICROPROCESSORS (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); COMPUTER CHIPS (72%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (68%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (68%); EXPORT TRADE (67%); INTEREST RATES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); SEMICONDUCTORS (55%) 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (95%); ALLSTATE CORP (80%); JEFFERIES & CO INC (66%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (95%); ALL (NYSE) (80%); BAC (NYSE) (50%); BAC (LSE) (50%); 8648 (TSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (80%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (80%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (80%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (80%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2004



78 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 78 words

HEADLINE: The Economy According to Bush

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Paul Krugman's sonorous allusion to Robin Hood in ''Dooh Nibor Economics'' (''Robin Hood in reverse''), regarding the Bush administration's budget, is regrettable (column, June 1). 
 Mr. Krugman seems to assume that the middle and lower income classes are entitled to tax revenues from higher income taxpayers.
 They are not.
 This popular assumption fosters the same class warfare that Mr. Krugman claims to have avoided.

PAUL MUSIALA
Madison, Wis., June 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (86%); TAXES & TAXATION (86%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (83%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) Taxation

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (91%) Paul Musiala; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON, WI, USA (65%) WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) United States

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2004



79 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; BRING US YOUR WEAK; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 929 words

HEADLINE: When a City Discovers the Virtues of Vice. And Vice Versa.

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

DATELINE: LAS VEGAS 

 BODY:
Jack Binion, son of the legendary Benny Binion, who ran the Horseshoe Club casino in Las Vegas for years, once said that Las Vegas was the best town in the world to live in if you had no weaknesses.
 ''But if you have one,'' he said, ''we'll find it.''
 Las Vegas is the most efficient machine ever devised to relieve the willing or the weak of their earthly fortunes, whether that weakness is gambling, sex, drink, spectacle or consumption.
 Stripped of euphemism, that is precisely what the Las Vegas gambling and entertainment industry is designed to exploit. And much of the political and commercial life in southern Nevada is devoted to helping the large and wealthy corporations that now dominate the Strip and the barren landscape beyond achieve that end. 
 Some have described Las Vegas as the epicenter of global organized crime, where the syndicate plants its ill-gotten fortunes in the desert sands and sprouts hotel-casino pleasure palaces that generate ever more billions. Sally Denton and Roger Morris, authors of ''The Money and the Power: The Making of Las Vegas and Its Hold on America,'' call it ''America's criminal city-state'' where all institutions are corrupted by the influence of dirty money.
 That may have been obviously true a generation or two ago. But the truth today is perhaps more mundane and complex -- and, in a way, more fascinating.
 The business that Meyer Lansky and Bugsy Siegel and Moe Dalitz and Howard Hughes once ruthlessly ruled is now dominated by a relative handful of publicly traded ''entertainment'' companies, among them Harrah's, Caesars, MGM/Mirage and Mandalay Bay Resorts. The table stakes to play on the Strip are now $1 billion and rising. Steve Wynn, who transformed the Strip a decade ago with the lush Bellagio, is returning to the scene with a new 2,700-room hotel that will cost $2 billion to complete.
 Nobody invests that kind of money without some certainty that the political and economic climate will support the enterprise, and Nevada's political institutions have always proved more than compliant, said Hal K. Rothman, a history professor at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas.
 ''Government here has always been weak,'' Mr. Rothman said. For years the Nevada power structure -- state and local government, the Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority, the chambers of commerce -- has willingly served the interests of the big gambling concerns, he said. It was to everyone's benefit to keep the visitors coming, to smooth the way for development, to keep the taxes low.
 It is difficult at times to distinguish between government in Nevada and the so-called resort industry. One of its United States senators, John Ensign, is the son of Mike Ensign, chairman of the Mandalay Bay Resort Group and himself the former manager of a casino hotel. Its longest-serving governor, Bob Miller, is the son of Ross Miller, a well-connected Chicagoan who moved to Las Vegas in the 1950's to help the syndicate run its Nevada gambling operations. The younger Miller now serves as a legal adviser to gambling companies and sits on the board of Mr. Wynn's company.
 Three members of the Clark County Commission were indicted last year on charges of accepting hundreds of thousands of dollars in bribes from strip-club owners. Candidates for the state legislature raise as much as $300,000, much of it from casino interests, to win a part-time job that pays $7,800 a year, perhaps hoping for a spot in the revolving door between government and the state's chief industry.
 Government has long been the willing handmaiden of that which drives the Nevada economy, looking the other way when necessary, providing a helping hand when possible. It is no accident that Oscar Goodman, who made his name and his fortune representing mobsters and hit men, is the mayor of Las Vegas. Among his current proposals are legalizing prostitution in the city and building a ''mob museum'' to enshrine the city's criminal heritage.
 ''We have turned vice into a virtue,'' Mr. Rothman said with a wry sense of wonder. Las Vegas may be in the midst of another of its constant reinventions. The decades from the late 1940's through the late 1970's were the mob era. From 1981 to 2001, Las Vegas saw phenomenal growth and the advent of the mega-resorts, along with a shift in image from naughty to family friendly and back again. The next decade will probably bring another business model, although legalized vice will still be at its core.
 ''The city has recharacterized itself time and again, like a chameleon,'' said Mr. Miller, the former governor.
 He said that the price of entry on the Strip has become so high that further consolidation is likely, with a shrinking number of larger and more powerful concerns dominating the landscape in the year to come. ''Just like the old days,'' he said. 
 But with the rapid growth of the Las Vegas region, new power centers are beginning to emerge after a half-century of dominance by the gambling industry and its offshoots. Real estate developers, banks, retailing giants, highway contractors, auto dealers, small businesses -- interests that wield political and economic power in ''normal'' cities -- are beginning to make their weight felt. 
 ''They are ready to take on the big dogs for the first time and really stand up to the gambling industry,'' said Guy Rocha, the Nevada state archivist. ''Nevada may be moving in a new direction, where the gambling industry can no longer do things by fiat,'' Mr. Rocha said.
 If that happens, he said, it will truly mark a revolutionary moment in Nevada history.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The heart of the most efficient machine ever devised to relieve the willing or the weak of their earthly fortunes. (Photo by Jim Wilson/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAMING (90%); CASINOS (90%); RESORTS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (83%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); LODGING (75%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (72%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); ORGANIZED CRIME (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) 

ORGANIZATION: Harrah's Casino Hotels; Mgm-Mirage (Co); Mandalay Bay Resort and Casino (Las Vegas); Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority

PERSON: JOHN ENSIGN (74%) John M Broder

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (96%) NEVADA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) Las Vegas (Nev)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2004



80 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Political Memo; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1114 words

HEADLINE: Kerry Presents Himself as a Patriot With a Different View

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER; Jodi Wilgoren contributed reporting for this article from Independence, Mo.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 3 

 BODY:
As the nation prepares to mark the 60th anniversary of D-Day, President Bush has steeped himself in the imagery and oratory of patriotism, military service and national strength.
 But Senator John Kerry, his Democratic challenger, has vigorously contested that political ground.
 Mindful of what happened in the 2002 midterm elections, when many Democrats felt Republicans utterly controlled the debate over national security, Mr. Kerry has used this two-week window around Memorial Day to introduce himself, aggressively, as an alternative commander in chief. 
 It is, in large part, a pre-emptive strategy. Mr. Kerry's advisers say they are well aware of the risks of challenging an incumbent president on foreign policy during a war. For days now, the Bush campaign has been accusing them, via surrogates and campaign advertising, of ''playing politics with national security.'' 
 Geoffrey Garin, a Democratic pollster, asserted, ''The Bush administration has tried to use the theme of patriotism to counter any criticism of the war, including criticism from Senator Kerry.'' Mr. Garin added, ''They are trying to silence him.''
 Instead, Mr. Kerry has outlined his vision of foreign policy, has criticized the administration's, and has defended his right to do so as in keeping with the nation's best patriotic values. He has delivered a series of major addresses on foreign policy, nuclear proliferation, bioterrorism and military modernization, which have often run with Mr. Bush's speeches in the news coverage.
 Perhaps just as important, he has sought to demonstrate the more symbolic attributes of commander in chief. He has surrounded himself with veterans, proudly talked about his service in Vietnam, listened to the needs of the troops and their families and generally campaigned across the country as a man completely uncowed by -- in fact often dismissive of -- the current commander in chief.
 ''National security is a forefront issue in this campaign,'' said Tad Devine, a senior strategist for the Kerry campaign. ''And John Kerry is not prepared to cede an inch of it.'' Along the way, Democrats assert Mr. Kerry is also addressing the problem of every challenger to an incumbent president -- the stature gap. (Political, not physical.)
 At nearly every Kerry rally in recent days, there have been flags and banners declaring some variation of ''Strength'' and ''Service.'' When he arrives in his new, red-white-and-blue campaign airplane, he descends to the tarmac with a sharp -- almost presidential -- salute to a welcoming party of local veterans, a popular shot for the local news.
 Often, Mr. Kerry's strongest applause lines are when he talks about reclaiming patriotism from the Republican Party. ''I'm tired of listening to the armchair patriots in Washington who want to tell us that asking questions about the direction of our country is somehow unpatriotic,'' he said in Kansas City on Wednesday night, in remarks delivered beneath a huge American flag.
 ''I want to make it clear to all Americans again that that flag that's standing behind us, that flag that so many of us vets saw draped over coffins of friends, that we see flying at half staff, that flag that flew on my boat, proudly -- that flag doesn't belong to any president,'' Mr. Kerry said. ''It doesn't belong to any party. It doesn't belong to any ideology. It is the symbol of our nation. It belongs to all of us.''
 He is, in short, presenting himself as a patriot with a different view, and a different biography. Mr. Bush served stateside in the Texas Air National Guard during Vietnam. 
 At Thursday's event in Independence, Mo., Gen. Johnnie Wilson, one of only four black four-star generals, got a standing ovation when he introduced Mr. Kerry this way: ''It seems to me unpatriotic that those who were absent would question Kerry's commitment, dedication and patriotism to our great nation.'' 
 The Democrats' aggressiveness in this debate is, in large part, a reaction to 2002, strategists close to the campaign say. The Democrats' vulnerability on national security that year, one year after the terrorist attacks, was embodied by the Senate race in Georgia. Max Cleland, a triple amputee who earned a silver star in Vietnam, lost that seat to Saxby Chambliss after a lacerating Republican advertising campaign that used footage of Saddam Hussein and Osama bin Laden to accuse Mr. Cleland of being soft on defense.
 ''There's a strong feeling among Democrats that in going after Max Cleland, who left three limbs on the ground, Republicans really crossed a line,'' said a Democratic strategist close to Mr. Kerry. ''That upset John Kerry and a lot of other Democrats.''
 Moreover, Democrats have a longstanding vulnerability on national security, pollsters say, which they must address in an age of terrorism. ''The biggest doubt about Democrats coming into this election was on the military -- do they respect the military and will they support spending for the military,'' said Stan Greenberg, a Democratic pollster. ''Kerry is making considerable progress on that.''
 Still, Mr. Bush's image of strength in protecting the nation from terrorism remains a fundamental advantage in the polls.
 Steve Schmidt, a spokesman for the Bush campaign, said his party was not attacking Mr. Kerry because he was offering criticisms, but because he was inconsistent. ''George McGovern ran as an antiwar candidate,'' Mr. Schmidt said. ''That was his position, and it was appropriate for him to do that. What John Kerry has done is utterly unprincipled.''
 Where the Kerry campaign highlights the candidate's military service, the Bush campaign asserts the focus, more rightly, belongs on Mr. Kerry's 19-year voting record in the Senate, including various votes against weapon systems.
 Mr. Devine, the Kerry adviser, said, ''They would like him to talk about something other than his strengths, and it's not going to happen.''
 Mr. Kerry will shift his focus to domestic policy next week, when Mr. Bush is overseas meeting with foreign leaders -- an implicit acknowledgement of the old tradition in American politics, (often broken), that partisanship ends at the water's edge.
 Still, the rivalry continues, more subtly. Mr. Bush will stand this Sunday before one of the most powerful and iconic scenes in American history -- the beaches of Normandy.
 Mr. Kerry will address a high school graduating class from Temperance, Mich., where a senior, Brandon Spader, headed off to the Air Force Academy wrote to him last March. ''Our town has been through so much,'' Mr. Spader said. ''We have lost servicemen to a war, jobs to a depressing economy and neighboring Canada, and teachers to a cut in education spending.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush on Wednesday with the Thunderbirds, the elite flight precision team of the Air Force, in Colorado Springs. Mr. Bush will honor the 60th anniversary of the D-Day invasion on Sunday in France. (Photo by Reuters)
 Senator John Kerry, center, introduced Lt. Cmdr. Roy Gibson, left, to Joseph Lesniewski at the World War II Memorial opening on Saturday. (Photo by European Pressphoto Agency)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); WORLD WAR II (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICS (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); MILITARY DEPENDENTS (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); TERRORISM (50%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (50%) 

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (91%) Robin Toner; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (79%); VIET NAM (53%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2004



81 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1066 words

HEADLINE: The French Connection

BYLINE: By Felix G. Rohatyn. 
Felix G. Rohatyn was the United States ambassador to France from 1997 to 2001.

 BODY:
On Sunday, President Bush will stand at attention next to President Jacques Chirac of France at the American military cemetery near Omaha Beach. They will be there to celebrate the 60th anniversary of the Normandy landings. Thousands of Frenchmen and Americans will mingle on the site to remember, mourn and celebrate the young men who died there. While there are, today, some Americans who like to think that the French don't remember D-Day, that is far from the truth; they do remember, and they are grateful. 
 I travel to France regularly and it is one of the most beautiful countries in the world -- one that is inhabited by some of the most intelligent and, yes, complicated people in the world. On one subject, however, the French are united: they are consumed with anxiety (and curiosity) about the decline of the French-American relationship. Despite the hostility generated by the war in Iraq, they wish for the relationship to be better. 
 On the American side of the ocean, there is no such curiosity, much less anxiety. There is only a certain dismissiveness and this silent reproach: ''They don't remember.'' That is both untrue and self-defeating. It is difficult to understate France's importance to Europe -- and to us. For both countries, a strong working relationship is a necessary and important asset.
 To repair the relationship, though, we need to understand how it unraveled. While the mistakes made by both our governments in the run-up to the Iraq war did grave damage, they are only part of the story. The United States and France have been moving apart in fundamental ways for a long time now. 
 On one level, this should come as no surprise. The American leaders responsible for the Marshall Plan, NATO and the United Nations no longer exist, and nor do their European counterparts; over the years, fewer and fewer leaders of such orientation have replaced them. As the world has changed -- shaped by the end of the Soviet threat, the economics of globalization and the rise of terrorism -- France, Europe and America have inevitably changed, too. 
 The election of President Bush and the events of 9/11 intensified the pace of change in America. America's immediate focus became a global war on terrorism: absolute military domination was combined with the concept of pre-emptive war. Americans became more patriotic, and struggled with the reality that we were both invincible and vulnerable. 
 This was in stark opposition to what was going on in Europe. Just as we were becoming more warlike and unilateral, France and Europe were working toward European integration while trying to minimize conflict wherever possible. (It's worth remembering that France left the military command of NATO in 1966. Though it briefly considered rejoining in 1997, the idea was quickly dropped.) What's more, as American politics became increasingly influenced by religion, France, with six million Muslims within its borders, was desperately trying to get religion out of politics. 
 Our economies were also diverging. While in the 1960's and 1970's we were on reasonably parallel paths, the American economy began to surge ahead of France's in the 1980's, the result of higher population growth, increased productivity and large investments in technology. America's interests also turned increasingly toward countries like China, India and Russia. The priorities of France, meanwhile, revolved more and more around European enlargement and its own role in Europe.
 I had the privilege of serving as ambassador at a time when the French-American relationship was quite positive, despite serious problems with respect to Iraq and any number of other issues, from genetically modified foods to the death penalty. The military cooperation in the Balkans was excellent, the economic partnership was booming and the personal relationships between Mr. Chirac and President Bill Clinton, Secretary of State Madeleine Albright and Foreign Minister Hubert Vedrine were solid. 
 Even then, though, one could sense that the relationship was evolving. When Mr. Vedrine referred to ''American hegemony'' and to the United States as a ''hyperpower,'' Ms. Albright took it as a criticism. In fact, it was more a combination of admiration, envy and fear, expressed by a sophisticated Frenchman. And all those fears came true when we marched into Iraq, and brought war to the outer borders of Europe. 
 When Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld talked about ''old Europe'' versus new Europe, he was comparing what he saw as obsolescence and fatigue in France and Germany with the dynamism he perceived in our Central European allies. But it will be decades before Central Europe is on a par with France and Germany. There is no such thing as old and new Europe; they are both the European Union, which has been evolving for 50 years. There is, however, a ''new America,'' and it looks at Europe with a certain disdain because we believe that our main interests are elsewhere.
 To some extent, however, the same can be said for France. I doubt that today, any American president, Republican or Democrat, would get the kind of reception accorded to China's newest leader, Hu Jintao, when he visited France recently. President Chirac also focuses on Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain, Chancellor Gerhard Schroder of Germany and Europe's military structure. Russia and America are equidistant from France and President Vladimir V. Putin is probably given at least as much attention by Mr. Chirac as is George Bush.
 While America's interests have changed more drastically, it is beginning to realize that solitude, even for a global superpower, may not be the best policy. The Bush administration's request for United Nations assistance in Iraq and the recent cooperation with France in Haiti may be belated recognition of the reality that America needs the legitimacy conferred by the international community when it exercises its power.
 I have seen France at its most tragic in 1940, and I have seen it at its best in later years. Although there will still be differences about Iraq and other issues, I know that France and America need each other strategically, economically, culturally. And beyond that, there is the history buried in the cemetery of Omaha Beach. We need a relationship built on mutual respect as well as mutual interest. Perhaps it will be rekindled on Omaha Beach. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANNIVERSARIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); IRAQ WAR (89%); WORLD WAR II (78%); CEMETERIES (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); TERRORISM (76%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (64%); GLOBALIZATION (60%) 

PERSON: JACQUES CHIRAC (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (86%) Felix G Rohatyn; George W (Pres) Bush; Jacques (Pres) Chirac

GEOGRAPHIC: NORMANDY, FRANCE (72%) FRANCE (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (95%); IRAQ (92%) France

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2004



82 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; RESIGNATION FROM THE C.I.A.: Man in the News; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: A Quiet Man Takes Charge -- John Edward McLaughlin

BYLINE: By JOEL BRINKLEY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 3 

 BODY:
When the White House began holding special intelligence briefings for members of Congress in 2002, during the lead-up to the war in Iraq, senior administration officials decided they were not happy with their briefer, John McLaughlin, the deputy director of central intelligence.
 ''He was too soft, too understated,'' a former senior administration official said. ''They wanted someone more forceful.''
 So, for later briefings, the White House brought in Mr. McLaughlin's boss, George J. Tenet, the director of central intelligence, who was better able to make a forceful case. 
 Of course, Mr. Tenet's advocacy of the view that Iraq possessed weapons of mass destruction, almost certainly a feature of those Congressional briefings, most likely played a role in the announcement Thursday that he will resign next month.
 And taking his place will be Mr. McLaughlin, the mild-mannered intelligence analyst, a Russia specialist who has won respect over 32 years at the Central Intelligence Agency not for flash and dazzle but for being solid, industrious, reliable and having ''a kind of quiet manner,'' as Representative Jane Harman, the California Democrat who is the ranking minority member of the Intelligence Committee, put it on Thursday.
 Mr. McLaughlin, 61, looks the part. He prefers tweed suits and wire-rim glasses. His white hair is receding, giving him the appearance of a college professor.
 ''He's very balanced,'' a former senior intelligence official said. ''He doesn't have any edges on him.''
 Behind the tweed, however, is a mirthful side. Around the agency he is known as Merlin, Mr. Tenet noted on Thursday -- most likely because he is an accomplished amateur magician who delights in pulling dollar bills from behind the ears of visitors.
 But in his new job, as acting director of central intelligence, his most important performances will be his briefings for President Bush most mornings, a job Mr. Tenet relished. Mr. McLaughlin, in fact, has more than a decade of history with presidential briefings.
 During the presidential transition in the fall of 1992, Mr. McLaughlin, then the agency's director of Slavic and Eurasian analysis, occasionally spelled other officials who were briefing Gov. Bill Clinton in Little Rock, Ark.
 John Edward McLaughlin was born in McKeesport, Pa., on June 15, 1942. Twenty-two years later, he earned a bachelor's degree from Wittenberg University in Springfield, Ohio, and two years after that a master's degree from the Johns Hopkins University School of Advanced International Studies. Shortly after obtaining his advanced degree, he joined the Army and served for three years, including a tour in Vietnam in 1968 and 1969.
 Mr. McLaughlin joined the C.I.A. as an analyst in 1972, and early in his career, the agency says in an official biography, he worked ''on various European, Russian and Eurasian issues'' as an analyst in the directorate of intelligence. By the 1980's, he had established himself as strong analyst on Soviet and European issues. He was appointed deputy director and then director of the European Analysis office, the first in a series of regular promotions.
 Three months after the fall of the Berlin Wall, he was named director of Slavic and Eurasian analysis. In that job, he recalled in a speech a few years ago, he began to appreciate the minutiae that goes into intelligence analyses.
 Mr. McLaughlin cited one day as an example.
 ''I made the rounds, shaking hands with my new colleagues,'' he recalled. ''I remember stopping by one officer's cubicle, and there, sitting on top of her computer, instead of the usual souvenirs, was a big can of peas, with Cyrillic writing. When I asked why, she said, 'I am the canned goods specialist.' ''
 Mr. McLaughlin was impressed, he said, because in those days ''it was actually important that we understand things like the food processing industry -- symbolized by the can of peas -- in order to gauge the underlying strength of Soviet society. We tried every conceivable way to gain insights into that fundamentally closed society.''
 The agency was not as successful at gaining insights into another closed society, Iraq. While the incorrect assessments of weapons of mass destruction have been well established, the first American administrators in Iraq last year said the C.I.A. had not even been able to tell them how many government ministries Iraq had. 
 In a broad sense, responsibility for that fell under Mr. McLaughlin. He became deputy director for intelligence starting in 1997, responsible for analysis of political, economic and military events worldwide. Then he became deputy director of the agency in 2000. In both jobs, he has been a strong advocate for fellow analysts, who work in the less glamorous side of the intelligence business.
 ''Our objective,'' he said in one speech, ''is a vigorous, creative, agile, analytic capability that is equal to the 21st century challenges.'' It is a goal that now seems even more imperative, given the major intelligence failures of recent years.


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (60%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (54%); HAIR LOSS (50%) 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (83%) Central Intelligence Agency

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JANE HARMAN (58%) Joel Brinkley; John E (Deputy Dir) Mclaughlin; George J (Dir) Tenet

GEOGRAPHIC: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (72%) ARKANSAS, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); VIET NAM (50%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2004



83 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 702 words

HEADLINE: A Leap Of Faith

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT. 
E-mail: bobherb@nytimes.com

DATELINE: CHICAGO 

 BODY:
Remember the name Barack Obama. You'll be hearing it a lot as this election season unfolds.
 Mr. Obama, a Democrat, is tall, thin, youthful and very smart, and he's running (sometimes literally, depending on the schedule) for a U.S. Senate seat from Illinois. 
 He's got a million-dollar smile and he's charismatic. At the moment he has a substantial lead in the polls. If that lead holds and he wins in November, he'll be only the third African-American to take a seat in the Senate since Reconstruction.
 His partisans describe Mr. Obama as a dream candidate, the point man for a new kind of politics designed to piece together a coalition reminiscent of the one blasted apart by the bullet that killed Robert Kennedy in 1968.
 In winning the Democratic primary in March, he took a startling 53 percent of the total vote in a field of seven candidates, and he ran surprisingly well among white blue-collar voters. He told me he believes strongly that while there are powerful and persistent differences at work in society, there is also ''a set of core values that bind us together as Americans.''
 He said the basic idea of his campaign, which he described as ''an experiment,'' was to see whether ''we could recast politics'' in a way that responded to his assumption ''that people want to hear an expression of those common values.''
 ''I give the same speech,'' he said, ''in the inner city, in rural, all-white farming communities, or up in the North Shore in well-to-do suburbs.''
 His politics are left of center, but he said he is committed to working honestly with officials from a wide range of perspectives.
 Differences can be framed and addressed in ways that are positive and constructive, he said. He doesn't believe in the ''slash and burn'' tactics that have such a hold on today's politics, and he hasn't allowed any in his campaign.
 ''There's a certain tone in politics that I aspire to,'' he said, ''that allows me to disagree with people without being disagreeable.''
 In a political era saturated with cynicism and deceit, Mr. Obama is asking voters to believe him when he talks about the values and verities that so many politicians have lied about for so long. He's asking, in effect, for a leap of political faith.
 So far, at least, the voters of Illinois seem to be responding. A Chicago Tribune poll released this week showed Mr. Obama with a huge lead, 52 percent to 30 percent, over his Republican rival, Jack Ryan.
 Mr. Obama has not ducked the issues. He has opposed the war in Iraq from the beginning, and he delivered a stirring antiwar speech at a rally in October 2002. He supports the war in Afghanistan. He believes the Bush tax cuts went too far, and he makes that clear even in appearances before wealthy audiences. He said: ''I tell them, 'Look, I think we need to roll back those tax cuts that benefited you. You don't need them. Let's talk about what we could do with that money.' ''
 Mr. Obama, 42, is a state senator who has managed to work well with colleagues on both sides of the aisle. In a state that drew national publicity for the large number of condemned prisoners who were later found to be innocent, he was the driving force behind a new law requiring the police to videotape all interrogations in capital cases.
 Mr. Obama is married and has two young daughters. He graduated magna cum laude from Harvard Law School, and in 1990 was the first black person to be elected president of the Harvard Law Review. His wife, Michelle, is also a graduate of Harvard Law.
 Mr. Obama has written a moving memoir called ''Dreams From My Father,'' which details his unusual and in some ways extraordinary background. His father, who died in a traffic accident in the early 1980's, was from Kenya. He left the family early and young Barack was raised primarily by his mother, who was white and originally from Kansas. She died in 1996.
 However this election goes, Mr. Obama's effort to connect in a more than superficial way with people across ethnic, economic and geographic lines should serve as a template for future campaigns in both parties. Politics that are increasingly ruthless in a country that is increasingly diverse is a recipe for disaster.

Paul Krugman is on vacation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (72%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (68%); SHOOTINGS (54%) 

ORGANIZATION: Senate (US)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%) Bob Herbert; Barack (Sen) Obama

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%) ILLINOIS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%) Illinois; Illinois

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2004



84 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 647 words

HEADLINE: 1970's Redux: Could a Mideast War Bring a New Oil Price Shock?

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
THE war had gone badly for the Arabs, who blamed the United States and lashed out at it in anger. To the shock of both the Arab and industrial worlds, it turned out that the Arabs had economic power that was far greater than anyone had suspected. The use of that power led to recessions and political instability in the West.
 So it was in 1973, when Israel won a decisive victory in the Yom Kippur War, with some help from the United States. The question now is whether something similar is happening three decades later. 
 As oil prices have risen and stayed high this year, the Western world has looked for someone to blame. First the Western countries agreed that the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries should step up production, but it looks as if there is little they can do. Now the blame is being assigned to terrorists, for their attacks in Saudi Arabia, and to speculators, for overreacting to those attacks.
 Little is heard of what was the accepted wisdom of a quarter-century ago: that oil is a scarce commodity that will inevitably run out as it is used up and that its price must accordingly rise over time. But that thesis may yet have a revival as the growth of Asian consumer economies, particularly China's, increases demand for oil. 
 Auto companies now have market forecasts showing soaring demand in China for years to come, but neither they nor the oil companies appear to expect that demand will have any long-term effect on oil prices.
 Yet the history of oil is of sudden price adjustments. The first great shock came in 1973, when an Arab oil embargo showed Western vulnerability. The second came after the Iranian revolution.
 The prospect of revisiting the 1970's is a sobering one, for that was a time when Western economies lost their self-confidence. In Britain, the Conservatives were thrown out in 1974 and returned in 1979. In the United States, the Republicans lost the White House in 1976 and reclaimed it four years later. There had been no similar rapid reversals in American politics since the late 19th century. One player then was Benjamin Harrison, a Republican who threw out the Democratic incumbent in 1888 and was himself defeated four years later. Mr. Harrison, the grandson of President William Henry Harrison, won in the electoral college in 1888 despite having won fewer popular votes than his Democratic opponent. No president since then -- until George W. Bush -- had been either a presidential descendant or a winner who lost the popular vote.
 Oil does not seem to have figured in Benjamin Harrison's problems, but it was very evident in Jimmy Carter's victory in 1976 and his loss in 1980. His troubles in pushing an energy policy through a Democratic Congress have a current echo in President Bush's inability to obtain energy legislation despite Republican control of both houses. This administration's effort to keep secret the names of oil executives it consulted is now before the Supreme Court, whose decision could cause problems during the campaign.
 To be sure, oil prices are far lower in real terms now than they were in 1980, even though the dollar price is a little higher than the peak reached that year. And efforts to conserve oil in the 1980's have resulted in an economy far less dependent on energy than it used to be. Gasoline takes a smaller part of consumer budgets now than it did before the first oil shock, which helps to explain why gas guzzlers still sell. But the United States remains more dependent on energy than other economies and therefore relatively more vulnerable to rising oil prices. 
 Current oil prices do not seem to have alarmed Americans. But sharply higher ones could. The risk for President Bush is that, as in 1973, a Mideast war will reveal that the world oil supply situation is tighter than was realized -- and that the government has no effective response.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks spending on gasoline as a percentage of disposable income since 1970. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); POLITICS (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ENERGY REGULATION (75%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (72%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (69%); EXPORT TRADE (69%); TERRORISM (68%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (65%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (64%); GRANDCHILDREN (50%) 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (56%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JIMMY CARTER (56%) Jimmy Carter; Ronald Wilson Reagan; Floyd Norris

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (93%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); CHINA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%) Israel; Middle East

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2004



85 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1091 words

HEADLINE: City Test Scores Of 3rd Graders See 10,000 F's

BYLINE: By ELISSA GOOTMAN

 BODY:
As many as 10,000 third graders, twice as many as last year, are expected to be held back this year under Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's tough new promotion policy, according to citywide test results announced yesterday.
 Despite a last-minute infusion of more than $8 million to prepare students for the tests, 11,700 of the city public school system's 80,000 third graders scored in the lowest of four categories on their math or English tests, or on both, putting them below the cutoff for promotion and in danger of being held back. The proportion who scored in the lowest category was slightly lower than it was last year, but teachers and principals were given discretion then in deciding promotion and were able to consider several other factors, including class work. As a result, only 4,800 third graders were asked to repeat the grade. 
 This year, under Mr. Bloomberg's new policy, which has been hotly contested since he announced it in January, the test scores are the main factor, and other factors are to be taken into consideration only during an appeals process. Schools Chancellor Joel I. Klein said yesterday that after the appeals process and a new third-grade summer school program for low scorers, he hoped that the number of children forced to repeat third grade would fall to 10,000.
 Parents will not find out whether their children passed until Tuesday. 
 Mr. Klein released the results of the citywide tests, which are also given to children in three other grades, on a day when the state was making public the results of its own English tests, which yielded mixed results for city schools.
 On the state tests, the proportion of New York City fourth graders who scored at grade level dropped three percentage points this year, to 49.5 percent, the first decline since the tests began in 1999. The proportion of city eighth graders meeting state standards in English rose three points, to 35.6 percent, a larger increase than the overall statewide gain. 
 The results were similarly mixed across the state, with fourth graders scoring at or above grade level dropping 2.1 percentage points, to 62.2 percent, and eighth-grade scores rising 1.9 points, to 47.2 percent.
 Experts and public officials differed in how they interpreted the results. Critics of Mr. Bloomberg's efforts to overhaul the city school system focused on some of the lower scores, like the fourth-grade English tests, and Department of Education officials pointed to signs of progress, particularly in math, where the number of students passing rose 5.1 percentage points.
 At a news conference yesterday, Mr. Klein noted that overall, third-grade scores had improved slightly, with the proportion of students passing the math test going up six percentage points and the proportion of third graders passing the English tests rising 2.3 points. 
 He spent little time talking about the number of children who are not likely to be promoted, saying the number ''was smaller than we expected,'' adding that he looked ''forward, obviously, to reducing that number further.''
 Carmen Farina, deputy chancellor for teaching and learning, said the $8 million for third-grade preparation had been well spent but might take longer to produce results. 
 ''You can't do this like a computer -- input, output,'' she said. ''Kids take time.''
 Other city officials felt that the money was poorly spent. Some said the relatively stable proportion of students in the lowest level proved that Mr. Bloomberg should have delayed his promotion policy a year, to give third graders more time to prepare.
 Eva S. Moskowitz, chairwoman of the City Council Education Committee, said it seemed clear to her that the test preparations, ''which were fairly costly, did not make a significant dent.'' 
 The City Council speaker, Gifford Miller, who is expected to challenge Mr. Bloomberg for the mayoralty, was harsher, saying in a statement, ''Sadly, as predicted, the mayor's plans to spend millions of dollars on test preparation for third graders this year has failed.'' 
 Some critics said it was unfair to invest so much importance in the third-grade scores in a year when the school system had undergone so many major changes, from a new educational bureaucracy to a uniform reading and math curriculum in all but the best city schools.
 Randi Weingarten, president of the United Federation of Teachers, said that if third-grade scores are to determine promotion, children and their teachers should have been alerted at the start of the school year, not halfway through. 
 ''There was a lot of newness, there was a lot of confusion, and the school system made this a very high-stakes exam, not at the beginning of the year but only a month and a half before the exam,'' she said. 
 Norm Fruchter, director of the New York University Institute for Education and Social Policy, said he was surprised that city and state test scores did not plummet all around, given the magnitude of the transition.
 ''The structural changes that were introduced in the system were so comprehensive and sweeping that they introduced an enormous amount of instability,'' he said. 
 The state scores were announced in Albany by Richard P. Mills, the state education commissioner. Mr. Mills suggested that the statewide decline in fourth-grade results could be linked to tough economic times and said the decline in the city's fourth-grade English scores should not be interpreted as a black mark on the city's new literacy program.
 The chancellor's critics said it was just that, and they wondered whether he had released the citywide scores on the same day as the state scores were announced in an effort to minimize the reaction to the drop in fourth-grade English scores.
 Mr. Klein said he released the city's information in an effort to be helpful and open and noted that the state released its results later than usual. ''The public should have all of the data that we have,'' he said.
 The third-grade scores revived the debate over Mr. Bloomberg's promotion policy. It is intended to ensure that lagging children do not fall further behind later in school, when it is virtually impossible for nonreaders to keep up. Some educators and children's advocates have said that holding children back is not the answer.
 The policy has been shrouded in controversy, from Mr. Bloomberg's decision to fire and replace two members of an educational oversight panel who had planned to vote against it, to revelations that some children had a peek at test questions when their teachers used last year's test for practice.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Test Results''The city released test results yesterday. Under a new policy, up to 10,000 students among the lowest scorers are expected to be forced to repeat the third grade. Also, the state announced a decline for the first time in scores on fourth-grade English tests.Graph tracks percentage of fourth graders statewide at or above the basic reading level since 1999.Scores of New York City third graders*MATHAt or above basic levels2003: 51.7%2004: 57.7%Failing2003: 32.82004: 25.5Lowest scorers2003: 15.72004: 16.8ENGLISHAt or above basic levels2003: 43.4%2004: 45.7%Failing2003: 35.52004: 35.2Lowest scorers2003: 21.12004: 19.1*Includes special education and English language learners who are not affected by the promotion policy(Sources by New York City Department of Education
 New York State Department of Education)(pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (77%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (76%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (72%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%) 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK CITY DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (59%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%) Elissa Gootman; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Joel I (Chancellor) Klein

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2004



86 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR: ON THE STREET; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1171 words

HEADLINE: In Baghdad, Restrained Optimism About the Interim Government

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, June 4 

 BODY:
Abdullah Najim stopped tapping on a keyboard at an Internet cafe here and pulled out a cigarette. After taking a drag, he spoke with a visitor, tossing out the questions that seemed to weigh heavily on the minds of many Iraqis this week.
 ''We can't evaluate the new government yet,'' he said. ''Who is Ajil Yawar? Who is Iyad Allawi? We're waiting for their deeds. From that, we can judge them.''
 ''We thought the United States was the supreme power in the world and that it could rehabilitate Iraq in one year,'' added Mr. Najim, 47, who was a manager in the Finance Ministry under the rule of Saddam Hussein. ''It couldn't do that. So how can we trust the new government?'' 
 In interviews across Baghdad on Friday, many Iraqis expressed cautious optimism about the interim government that was announced just three days earlier. They neither embraced the new officials nor denounced them. It seemed that people here were in a holding pattern, willing to give the government the benefit of the doubt because in this bleak hour it seemed the best hope.
 Like Mr. Najim, many said that they did not know much about the records of the new president, Sheik Ghazi Ajil al-Yawar, or the prime minister, Iyad Allawi, and that they would allow the men's actions, rather than their promises, speak for them. Most said the government's top priorities should be to improve the dismal security situation and give a boost to the stagnant economy.
 Still, there were some who derided this government, just like the old Governing Council, as a puppet of the American occupation. And all the Iraqis who were interviewed said they wanted the interim government to have full sovereign powers, a demand that is being debated at the United Nations. It is irreconcilable with the Bush administration's position that the new officials be endowed with only very limited powers.
 ''I'm partially optimistic about the new government when they say they want full sovereignty for the new country,'' Mr. Najim said. ''This delights my soul. This proves they're patriots.''
 Sitting near him in the cafe in the upscale neighborhood of Mansour, Alia Muhammad al-Samarrai, who described herself as an electrical engineer and acupuncturist, said she hoped for the best, but was more realistic.
 The new officials ''want to serve Iraqis, but if you've been captured, how can you use your hands?'' Ms. Samarrai said. ''Even if a man is good, he's working under the American government. We say Iraqis can't place much trust in him.''
 Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani, the most powerful Shiite cleric in Iraq, gave guarded approval to the new government on Thursday, and so Ms. Samarrai, a Shiite, said she would follow his lead.
 But she said the officials were overwhelmingly secular, and that it was obvious the Americans did not want religious leaders to take what she saw as their rightful place in the seats of power.
 ''We hope in the future, if the Americans leave, there will be a real democracy,'' she said. ''They talk about democracy, but there is no democracy under the occupation.''
 Across town, in the Sunni-dominated neighborhood of Adhamiya, where a car bomb exploded Wednesday and where attacks on American soldiers have been rampant, some people actually expressed tentative backing for the new government.
 Such good will seemed to be based less on support for any handover plans conceived by the Americans than on the simple fact that Iraqis now seemed to be taking some control from L. Paul Bremer III, the head of the Coalition Provisional Authority, which is scheduled to be disbanded on June 30.
 ''I've read good things about the new president,'' said Yaser Fadhel, 32, a bakery employee. ''The most interesting thing is when I saw him talking on the Arabiya channel, he didn't differentiate between Sunni or Shiite. I think he is really moderate.
 ''Even if he and the other ministers have lived abroad, that doesn't mean they're ignorant about our suffering all these years. The one year in which they've lived here is enough to tell them everything. At least he is Iraqi, which is better than Paul Bremer. And Paul is going to leave anyway.''
 In general, people who were interviewed seemed to take more to Sheik Yawar than to Mr. Allawi because the president came from the Shammar tribe, one of the largest and most powerful in Iraq. Mr. Yawar's outward appearance, with his pristine white robe and groomed mustache, also held more appeal than the Westernized attire -- gray suits and neckties -- favored by Mr. Allawi. Many Iraqis were well aware that both men, as well as many members of the new cabinet, had spent part of their lives in the United States and Europe.
 This sort of experience was seen by some as a good thing.
 ''The ministers are experts with high degrees; they are well educated,'' said Sadiq Hassan, a 55-year-old man who was walking in the direction of Abu Hanifa Mosque, where anti-American imams preach every Friday. ''We have suffered a lot for many years, and I don't think after all the hardship we have seen, we will let anyone in power serve his own interest. The citizens have to help the new government and help each other build a strong foundation for the country again.''
 ''We have to make sacrifices to upgrade our country,'' Mr. Hassan said. ''Kuwait and Saudi Arabia aren't any better than us. We have scientists, doctors, politicians, educated people. We have professionals and experts. But look at us now: Our streets are full of beggars, our revenues were used to buy weapons and missiles under the old regime. There should be new laws to serve the people instead of serving special groups. Let the new president work; let us give him a chance, and I hope it all turns out well.''
 Across a bridge spanning the Tigris River, in the mostly Shiite neighborhood of Kadhimiya, several Iraqis at the bazaar in front of the main shrine echoed some of that optimism.
 ''We hadn't heard about the new cabinet before, but when I read about them, they seemed to be good and efficient people, especially the president,'' said Ghazwan Mustafa, a 29-year-old university student. ''He's educated and lived abroad, and I hope that whatever he learned outside he can bring to help us. But he also doesn't have a magic lamp to fix things so quickly.''
 Back in the Mansour neighborhood, a policeman on street patrol, Amar Sabrih, 27, said the interim government must pass ''very strict laws'' to rule the people, ''because they're used to such rule.''
 ''Under the institutions created by Saddam, even children would be taught how to hold a gun, how to fire a gun,'' Mr. Sabrih said. ''It was all a criminal art. So you need strict rules to stop everyone from acting up, whether it's children or adults.''
 On the next block, the owner of an ice cream shop, Brahim al-Dulaimi, gave a terse assessment of what might transpire over this sweltering and unpredictable summer. ''We have to let them take office for one or two months,'' he said. ''If they're no good, then the people will rise up against them. That much I'm sure of.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: In an Internet cafe in Baghdad, Establaq Hazim, left, Alwer al-Samarrai, center and Alia Muhammad al-Samarrai talked about Iraq's new leaders. Ms. Samarrai voiced fear of continued American domination.
 Amar Sabrih, 27, a police officer on patrol in Baghdad, says he wants ''very strict laws'' in Iraq to ''stop everyone from acting up.'' He added that his countrymen were ''used to such rule.'' (Photographs by Shawn Baldwin for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); INTERVIEWS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); POLITICS (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (63%); TERRORISM (59%) Politics and Government; Economic Conditions and Trends; Terrorism; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (54%) Edward Wong; Ghazi Ajil Al- (Sheik) Yawar; Iyad (Prime Min) Allawi

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%) Iraq; Baghdad (Iraq)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2004



87 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: Circling The Wagons

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS. 
E-mail: dabrooks@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Over the next few months, I hope to write a fair bit about the dominant feature of our political life: polarization. I hope to figure out how deeply split the nation is, and what exactly it is we are fighting about -- questions that leave me, at present, confused. 
 Today's topic is what it means to be a partisan, because partisanship is the building block of polarization.
 In a perfectly rational world, citizens would figure out which parties best represent their interests and their values, and they would provisionally attach themselves to those parties. If their situations changed or their interests changed, then their party affiliations would change. 
 But that is not how things work in real life. As Donald Green, Bradley Palmquist and Eric Schickler argue in their book, ''Partisan Hearts and Minds,'' most people either inherit their party affiliations from their parents, or they form an attachment to one party or another early in adulthood. Few people switch parties once they hit middle age. Even major historic events like the world wars and the Watergate scandal do not cause large numbers of people to switch. 
 Moreover, Green, Palmquist and Schickler continue, people do not choose parties by comparing platforms and then figuring out where the nation's interests lie. Drawing on a vast range of data, these political scientists argue that party attachment is more like attachment to a religious denomination or a social club. People have stereotypes in their heads about what Democrats are like and what Republicans are like, and they gravitate toward the party made up of people like themselves.
 Once they have formed an affiliation, people bend their philosophies and their perceptions of reality so they become more and more aligned with members of their political tribe.
 Paul Goren of Arizona State University has used survey data to track the same voters over time. Under the classic model, you'd expect to find that people who valued equal opportunity would become Democrats and that people who valued limited government would become Republicans.
 In fact, you're more likely to find that people become Democrats first, then place increasing value on equal opportunity, or they become Republicans first, then place increasing value on limited government. Party affiliation often shapes values, not the other way around.
 Party affiliation even shapes people's perceptions of reality. In 1960, Angus Campbell and others published a classic text, ''The American Voter,'' in which they argued that partisanship serves as a filter. A partisan filters out facts that are inconsistent with the party's approved worldview and exaggerates facts that confirm it. 
 That observation has been criticized by some political scientists, who see voters as reasonably rational. But many political scientists are coming back to Campbell's conclusion: people's perceptions are blatantly biased by partisanship.
 For example, the Princeton political scientist Larry Bartels has pointed to survey data collected after the Reagan and Clinton presidencies. In 1988, voters were asked if they thought the nation's inflation rate had fallen during the Reagan presidency. 
 In fact, it did. The inflation rate fell from 13.5 percent to 4.1 percent. But only 8 percent of strong Democrats said the rate had fallen. Fifty percent of partisan Democrats believed that inflation had risen under Reagan. Strong Republicans had a much sunnier and more accurate impression of economic trends. Forty-seven percent said inflation had declined.
 Then, at the end of the Clinton presidency, voters were asked similar questions about how the country had fared in the previous eight years. This time, it was Republicans who were inaccurate and negative. Democrats were much more positive. Bartels concludes that partisan loyalties have a pervasive influence on how people see the world. They reinforce and exaggerate differences of opinion between Republicans and Democrats. 
 The overall impression one gets from these political scientists is that politics is a tribal business. Americans congregate into rival political communities, then embrace one-sided attitudes and perceptions. That suggests that political polarization is the result of deep and self-reinforcing psychological and social forces.
 This theory doesn't explain how the country moves through cycles of greater and lesser polarization. Still, I have to say, depressingly, this picture of tribal and subrational partisanship does accord with the reality we see around us every day. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (86%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (86%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (67%); RELIGION (64%) United States Politics and Government

PERSON: David Brooks

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2004



88 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: China Pledges to Increase Use Of Alternative Energy Sources

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: BONN, June 4 

 BODY:
China, which has rattled energy markets with its ravenous appetite for oil, declared on Friday that it would generate 10 percent of its power through renewable sources by 2010.
 The pledge, made at a conference on renewable energy held here, surprised experts with its ambition. If China achieves its goal, they said, it will become a world leader in developing alternatives to fossil fuels, rather than just a world-class consumer.
 ''The Chinese want to do this on a massive scale,'' said Christopher Flavin, the president of the Worldwatch Institute, an environmental research organization in Washington. ''They're very serious about it.'' 
 China faces an urgent need to diversify beyond oil and coal, he said. There are already sporadic power shortages in its teeming cities. The bill for Chinese oil imports is skyrocketing, as its economy grows at nearly double-digit rates and cars and trucks choke Chinese streets.
 ''China is saying that it sees the rapid development of renewable energy as being in its strategic interest,'' Mr. Flavin said.
 China's initiative is part of a draft law on the use of renewable energy. In setting a numeric goal, Beijing has lined up with the European Union, which has pledged to generate 22 percent of its electricity, and 12 percent of all its energy, from renewable sources by 2010.
 The United States rejects benchmarks for the adoption of renewable energy, and the Bush administration has rejected the Kyoto Protocol, the environmental treaty that imposes strict reductions on greenhouse gas emissions linked to global warming.
 Critics note that these targets are purely voluntary, with no sanctions if they are missed and no well-established review process to determine how well they are being met. The European Union warned recently that its 25 member states might fall short of their target for 2010.
 Moreover, energy consumption in China is rising so rapidly that even a national campaign to build windmills or solar-powered houses will barely reduce the country's dependence on fossil fuels.
 The Chinese government said it planned to generate 60 gigawatts of energy from renewable sources by 2010 -- most from small-scale hydroelectric projects -- and 121 gigawatts by 2020. But the share of total electricity from renewable sources will rise to only 12 percent, from 10 percent.
 ''This is a problem in all industrializing countries,'' said Janet L. Sawin, a research associate at Worldwatch. ''We haven't been doing as much with energy efficiency as with energy production.''
 Still, China's announcement allowed the German officials who played host at the conference to claim a victory.
 ''This commitment was amazing,'' said the minister for economic cooperation and development, Heidemarie Wieczorek-Zeul.
 The timing of the conference could not have been more propitious. Crude oil prices surged to highs this week after a terrorist attack in Saudi Arabia, while ministers from the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries held an emergency meeting to lift production quotas.
 But amid a recognition that renewable energy ought to be a priority again, there were troubling signs. The International Energy Agency released a study that showed renewable energy actually lost ground, as a percentage of the total supply of power, from 1970 to 2001.
 And while some countries, notably Denmark and Germany, have made big strides in wind energy, the progress has not spread widely. In 2001, about 86 percent of the world's capacity for wind generation was in Denmark, Germany, Spain and the United States, the report said.
 The German chancellor, Gerhard Schroder, announced 500 million euros ($610 million) in low-interest loans to support renewable-energy projects and energy efficiency in developing countries. The World Bank said it would increase lending for projects by 20 percent a year over the next five years.
 The United States kept a low profile, sending an assistant energy secretary, while most countries sent ministers. It promised research money to make solar and geothermal energy more cost-efficient.
 If the United States is not a favored guest at such gatherings, however, it is also no longer a pariah. Most delegates avoided criticizing the Bush administration -- at least outside of hallway chatter -- and German officials said the American delegation played a ''constructive role.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: China is cutting taxes for wind-power generators like these in the grasslands of Inner Mongolia. The government wants to decrease the nation's dependence on coal to produce electricity. (Photo by Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENEWABLE ENERGY (92%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (89%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); SOLAR ENERGY (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (88%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (79%); WIND ENERGY (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); BIOFUELS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (78%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); CLIMATE CHANGE (76%); GREENHOUSE GASES (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (75%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (73%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (73%); POWER FAILURES (73%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (73%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (71%); EUROPEAN UNION (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); GLOBAL WARMING (69%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (68%); PRICE INCREASES (62%); TAXES & TAXATION (59%); MOTOR VEHICLES (53%) Electric Light and Power; Wind; Coal; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Energy and Power; Taxation; Electric Light and Power

ORGANIZATION: WORLDWATCH INSTITUTE (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

PERSON: Mark Landler

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (59%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); GERMANY (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2004



89 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: Germans Are Wary of Plan to Cut Back G.I.'s

BYLINE: By RICHARD BERNSTEIN

DATELINE: BERLIN, June 4 

 BODY:
A Pentagon proposal to redeploy thousands of American troops based in Germany and elsewhere in Europe did not exactly come as a surprise in Europe, but it has enhanced deep worries, especially in Germany, that the plans, if carried out, would widely be seen as a sign of a weakened American engagement in Europe.
 ''I can understand the United States,'' Frank Umbach, a military analyst for the German Council on Foreign Relations said in an interview on Friday. ''We have a new strategic landscape since the end of the cold war. The borders of instability have moved eastward and southward, so from a purely military point of view, I can certainly understand redeployment.'' 
 But according to analysts in Germany and elsewhere in Europe, the Pentagon's proposal, reported in The New York Times on Friday, has still caused grave concern that a broad redeployment, coming so soon after fierce debates over the Iraq war, could weaken political will on both sides of the Atlantic to continue a half-century-old tradition of close military cooperation. 
 The Times article cited American and allied sources as saying the United States was considering moving its two Army divisions and other forces stationed in Germany to other countries, including Turkey and some in Eastern Europe. 
 ''In fact, a good case could be made that new bases elsewhere in Europe, such as in the former Communist countries like Romania and Bulgaria, would mean that the American footprint in Europe is actually increasing, which would be a good message,'' said Jonathan Eyal, a military analyst at the Royal United Services Institute in London. 
 ''The problem is that the political handling of this by the Americans has not been very good,'' Mr. Eyal continued. ''They haven't succeeded in persuading people that it's actually a bigger involvement, and it has become hopelessly enmeshed in the bad feelings generated by Iraq.''
 In fact, there have been many announcements, and even more rumors, over the last year or so that the United States would eventually want to move some of the roughly 70,000 troops it maintains in Germany, which include the two Army divisions of the V Corps as well a contingent of 15,000 airmen stationed in several airfields throughout the country. The economic consequences for Germany and Europe, as well as the military ones, would be considerable, and discussions have been carried on delicately.
 Information about the proposed redeployment emerged just as President Bush arrived in Europe for talks with government leaders and for 60th anniversary D-Day celebrations in France. Officials said that Mr. Bush had not yet signed off on the plans and that final decisions would be made in the next couple of months.
 But the notion that two divisions now based in Germany are likely to be sent elsewhere was decidedly not well received in this country, where military analysts said they continued to hope that the Americans could be persuaded to retain a large military presence here.
 ''I hope the political decision has not yet been made,'' Christian Schmidt, the spokesman for defense policy for the opposition Christian Democratic Union said in a telephone interview, ''and that at the D-Day talks and at the NATO summit in Istanbul at the end of this month there will be serious talks about the necessity to have the Americans politically and military engaged in Europe.''
 ''I think that the American administration has not yet fully considered the consequences of such a decision, which would basically wipe out the United States military presence in old Europe,'' Mr. Schmidt said, referring to an expression used by Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld to describe Western European countries like Germany and France.
 Withdrawing American troops from Germany would clearly upset many decades-old arrangements. 
 There is, for example, the economic importance to Germany of many thousands of American troops living in this country with their families. In addition, some analysts speak almost sentimentally about the usefulness for German-American relations of the personal ties that have been established over the years by American troops stationed here, and the damage that would be done if those ties were diminished.
 ''You wouldn't have these kinds of people in the Pentagon,'' Mr. Umbach said, speaking of servicemen who have come to know Germany and then returned to the United States to take policy-making jobs in the Defense Department. ''One shouldn't underestimate these kinds of experiences.''
 The prospect of a major American troop redeployment was immediately seen here in the context of tense strains in the trans-Atlantic relationship, brought about by deep differences over the Iraq war. 
 ''The Americans haven't managed to persuade the Europeans that this has nothing to do with disenchantment with the European performance,'' Mr. Eyal said. ''The truth is that the timetables are very different. In order for the effects of the recent disputes to be out of the way one would need another year, but the Pentagon feels that that much time is a luxury it cannot afford.''
 Another worry is that a withdrawal of American troops could increase support in Europe for France's vision of a separate European defense force. France has promoted the idea of an independent European headquarters for the force, while Germany and Britain have insisted it be built in close cooperation with the United States and NATO. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); WORLD WAR II (78%); COLD WAR (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); ANNIVERSARIES (75%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (71%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); IRAQ WAR (71%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (57%)

PERSON: Richard Bernstein

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (68%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (96%); GERMANY (95%); IRAQ (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); TURKEY (79%); BULGARIA (79%); ROMANIA (79%); FRANCE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%) Europe; Germany 

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2004



90 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: Beating Specialist Baker

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF. 
E-mail: nicholas@nytimes.com

 BODY:
The prison abuse scandal refuses to die because soothing White House explanations keep colliding with revelations about dead prisoners and further connivance by senior military officers -- and newly discovered victims, like Sean Baker.
 If Sean Baker doesn't sound like an Iraqi name, it isn't. Specialist Baker, 37, is an American, and he was a proud U.S. soldier. An Air Force veteran and member of the Kentucky National Guard, he served in the first gulf war and more recently was a military policeman in Guantanamo Bay.
 Then in January 2003, an officer in Guantanamo asked him to pretend to be a prisoner in a training drill. As instructed, Mr. Baker put on an orange prison jumpsuit over his uniform, and then crawled under a bunk in a cell so an ''internal reaction force'' could practice extracting an uncooperative inmate. The five U.S. soldiers in the reaction force were told that he was a genuine detainee who had already assaulted a sergeant. 
 Despite more than a week of coaxing, I haven't been able to get Mr. Baker to give an interview. But he earlier told a Kentucky television station what happened next:
 ''They grabbed my arms, my legs, twisted me up and unfortunately one of the individuals got up on my back from behind and put pressure down on me while I was face down. Then he -- the same individual -- reached around and began to choke me and press my head down against the steel floor. After several seconds, 20 to 30 seconds, it seemed like an eternity because I couldn't breathe. When I couldn't breathe, I began to panic and I gave the code word I was supposed to give to stop the exercise, which was 'red.' . . . That individual slammed my head against the floor and continued to choke me. Somehow I got enough air. I muttered out: 'I'm a U.S. soldier. I'm a U.S. soldier.' ''
 Then the soldiers noticed that he was wearing a U.S. battle dress uniform under the jumpsuit. Mr. Baker was taken to a military hospital for treatment of his head injuries, then flown to a Navy hospital in Portsmouth, Va. After a six-day hospitalization there, he was given a two-week discharge to rest.
 But Mr. Baker began suffering seizures, so the military sent him to the Walter Reed Army Medical Center for treatment of a traumatic brain injury. He stayed at the hospital for 48 days, was transferred to light duty in an honor burial detail at Fort Dix, N.J., and was finally given a medical discharge two months ago.
 Meanwhile, a military investigation concluded that there had been no misconduct involved in Mr. Baker's injury. Hmm. The military also says it can't find a videotape that is believed to have been made of the incident.
 Most appalling, when Mr. Baker told his story to a Kentucky reporter, the military lied in a disgraceful effort to undermine his credibility. Maj. Laurie Arellano, a spokeswoman for the Southern Command, questioned the extent of Mr. Baker's injuries and told reporters that his medical discharge was unrelated to the injuries he had suffered in the training drill.
 In fact, however, the Physical Evaluation Board of the Army stated in a document dated Sept. 29, 2003: ''The TBI [traumatic brain injury] was due to soldier playing role of detainee who was non-cooperative and was being extracted from detention cell in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, during a training exercise.''
 Major Arellano acknowledges that she misstated the facts and says she had been misinformed herself by medical personnel. She now says the medical discharge was related in part -- but only in part, she says -- to the ''accident.''
 Mr. Baker, who is married and has a 14-year-old son, is now unemployed, taking nine prescription medications and still suffering frequent seizures. His lawyer, Bruce Simpson, has been told that Mr. Baker may not begin to get disability payments for up to 18 months. If he is judged 100 percent disabled, he will then get a maximum of $2,100 a month.
 If the U.S. military treats one of its own soldiers this way -- allowing him to be battered, and lying to cover it up -- then imagine what happens to Afghans and Iraqis.
 President Bush attributed the problems uncovered at Abu Ghraib to ''a few American troops who dishonored our country.'' Mr. Bush, the problems go deeper than a few bad apples. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRISONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ARMIES (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); MILITARY HOSPITALS (89%); NAVIES (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (78%); MISCONDUCT (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); HEAD INJURIES (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); MILITARY BASES (78%); SCANDALS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); AIR FORCES (73%); TERRORISM (72%); INTERVIEWS (66%); BRAIN INJURIES (60%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (51%); BRAIN (50%) Prisoners of War; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Terrorism; Freedom and Human Rights

ORGANIZATION: PRISONERS OF WAR (59%) National Guard (US)

PERSON: Nicholas D Kristof; Sean (Army Specialist) Baker

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); CUBA (90%) Afghanistan; Guantanamo Bay Naval Base (Cuba); Kentucky; Afghanistan

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2004



91 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 769 words

HEADLINE: Remaking Iraq Without Guns

BYLINE: By Irshad Manji. 
Irshad Manji is the author of ''The Trouble with Islam: A Muslim's Call for Reform in Her Faith.''

DATELINE: TORONTO 

 BODY:
When the heads of the world's leading industrialized nations meet in Georgia next week, they can do something unexpectedly positive for the Middle East, Muslim women, economic freedom and even democracy -- if they take seriously a small but powerful idea on their agenda: microlending in Iraq.
 It's obvious by now that the reconstruction of Iraq demands long-term thinking, which means using non-military ''soft power'' as much as hard ammunition. One of the best ways to achieve stability is by offering tiny loans to promote the creation of small businesses. Iraq has no dearth of budding entrepreneurs who could use the help. Chief among them are women, who have shown themselves able and eager to take on more roles. 
 An investment in Muslim women benefits men and children too. Testifying to this multiplier effect are the signs in some Afghan schools: ''Educate a boy and you educate that boy; educate a girl and you educate her entire family.'' Indeed, the 30-year record of microlending shows that Muslim women have helped nourish their neighborhoods and towns by building their own businesses. As for the repayment rate? A banker's fantasy fulfilled: 98 percent.
 With that in mind, suppose Washington joined a coalition of rich allies around the world -- the Group of 8 nations as well as private foundations -- to offer women in Iraq a coherent program of microbusiness loans. Pursuing this type of soft power could also compel government transparency in a way that even popular movements couldn't. Only a broad and inclusive business class that can be taxed by the state will, in turn, convince the state to develop institutions that respond to people. Americans know this principle better than anybody. It's called representation with taxation.
 This approach to re-building Iraq could also help heal the rift between the United States and much of the European Union. International agencies have recognized that women are the great untapped resource in the Arab Middle East. The United Nations' Arab Human Development Reports -- written by Arabs -- consistently emphasize three deficits in the Arab Muslim world: women's empowerment, knowledge and freedom. By putting a dent in the deficit of Iraqi women's empowerment, we can begin closing the gaps in knowledge and freedom. 
 The World Bank appears to agree. While he was its chief economist, Nicholas Stern said that ''increasing gender equality is as central to the idea of development as freedom.'' When women get involved, he added, ''education, health, productivity, credit and governance work better.'' In short, there's less corruption -- a saving grace for a fledgling democracy like Iraq.
 But the looming question remains: does Islam permit women to be entrepreneurs? In theory, yes. The prophet Muhammad's first beloved wife, Khadija, was a wealthy self-made merchant. For years, he worked for her -- something that Muslim men should be open to doing if they're serious about emulating Muhammad's life. Those Muslims who cite religion to oppose women as economic agents do so not because they fear violating the faith, but because they fear losing comfortable cultural certitudes and personal privileges. 
 More sophisticated Muslims will argue that introducing free enterprise to the Arab Middle East amounts to Western imperialism, regardless of whether women benefit. That, too, is nonsense. The most tolerant strains of Islam have been spread through merchant trade rather than military conquest. Capitalism has such a noble history in Islam that an old saying goes, ''May your pilgrimage be accepted, your sins be forgiven, and your merchandise not remain unsold.'' 
 Theology and modernity can meet in today's Iraq as they did a thousand years ago when Baghdad, the seat of the Islamic enlightenment, served as a crossroads of commerce. Iraq is precisely the place from which to remind Arab Muslims of their storied history, a golden age built upon the exchange of ideas as much as goods. However, to help Arab Muslims rediscover that glory, or anything close to it, America and the world will need to think bigger than elections. 
 Drafting a democratic constitution for Iraq is important, but it's hardly enough to ensure meaningful democracy. Let's remember that Hitler became chancellor of Germany through free and fair elections. He did so by feeding off stubborn tribalism, economic malaise and resentment over military defeat. Iraq has the potential to incubate all three viruses, plus the remnants of a Baath Party built on the Nazi model. That's why more lasting solutions lie in long-term thinking. And in the women of Iraq. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (90%); MICROFINANCE (90%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); WOMEN (77%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); RELIGION (73%); GENDER EQUALITY (72%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); CORRUPTION (64%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); TRENDS (60%); FOUNDATIONS (50%); EUROPEAN UNION (50%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Credit; Small Business; United States International Relations; Women

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (82%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%) Group of Eight; European Union

PERSON: Irshad Manji

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (67%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2004



92 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1005 words

HEADLINE: Court Rejects Extension Of Phone Rule

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 4 

 BODY:
In a ruling that could reduce competition in local phone markets, a federal appeals court Friday rejected a request by regulators and the two largest long-distance telephone providers to extend regulations that give the companies and small rivals deep discounts for leasing the network equipment of the four Bell operating companies. 
 The decision puts pressure on the Bush administration to take sides in the long-running telephone wars, as the Justice Department will have to decide whether to take an appeal to the Supreme Court. 
 A majority of commissioners at the Federal Communications Commission have said that the agency intends to appeal the earlier decision by the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia that struck down the regulations, but the Supreme Court is more likely to consider an appeal if the Justice Department decides to join it.
 Executives and lawyers for the losers of Friday's decision, including the association representing state telephone regulators, said that they would go to the Supreme Court early next week to ask Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist, who oversees such applications for matters arising out of the federal appeals court, to issue a stay blocking the expiration of the old rules. 
 The ultimate decision whether the administration should join the appeal falls to Theodore B. Olson, the solicitor general, who has received a stream of conflicting recommendations from the industry. It is not known whether any White House or other administration officials have contacted Mr. Olson, although lawyers and lobbyists on both sides of the issue have been blanketing administration officials in hopes of getting them to influence Mr. Olson's thinking. 
 So far, the Justice Department and the White House have studiously avoided making any public comment about the dispute, whose outcome will help determine the telecommunications landscape for the next generation. Many rival companies to the Bells say they would not be able to compete if they were forced to pay higher rates. 
 The Bells, meanwhile, say that they have no financial incentive to make capital investments in equipment that they must lease to their competitors at below-market rates.
 The administration has important political allies on each side of the dispute -- which affects billions of dollars a year. Hoping to avoid offending either side, officials have urged the parties to negotiate their own rate settlements. Some deals have been struck by the Bell companies and their rivals. But the largest rival, AT&T, has not reached a deal with any Bell company, and the second largest, MCI, has struck an accord only with Qwest Communications International.
 Neither the Justice Department, the F.C.C. or the White House issued a response to the latest court decision. Industry executives and lobbyists said they believed that the administration had still not reached a decision on how to proceed.
 ''My sense is it is still being decided,'' said John D. Windhausen Jr., president of the Association for Local Telecommunications Services, which represents many of the smaller rivals to the Bells. He said representatives from his organization met earlier in the day with officials from the White House Council of Economic Advisers. 
 ''They are still taking down information,'' he said.
 The rate rules are set to lapse on June 15 under a decision by the appeals court last March. The rules require the four Bell companies -- Verizon, SBC Communications, BellSouth and Qwest -- to lease parts of their networks to rivals at deep discounts. They had been adopted as part of the Telecommunications Act of 1996 to try to make local markets more competitive.
 Industry executives offered different accounts of whether an expiration of the rules in 11 days would lead to higher rates. James Ellis, general counsel at SBC, said that the decision would have no immediate effect on the company's bills. He said that under the terms of most of the interconnection agreements, changes in the law require the parties to renegotiate leasing fees, a process that could take months. In the interim, the executives said, the old rates would remain in effect.
 But in a letter sent on Tuesday, a Verizon lawyer told an AT&T lawyer that Verizon did not feel constrained from changing rates after giving 90 days' notice.
 Moreover, consumer groups and the rivals of the Bells say that if the rules are ultimately abolished, rates will rise. And as part of the political skirmish over the issue, some rivals to the Bells have prepared television advertisements making that point in an effort to persuade the Bush administration to fight to preserve the rules.
 Several states, including Michigan and Connecticut, have issued standstill orders prohibiting the Bell companies from unilaterally raising rates.
 The latest appeals court decision, which was expected, was hailed by the regional Bell companies. ''The court's decision to deny this last-minute attempt to prolong rules that so flagrantly undermine the public interest in real competition, job creation and investment is the right move for consumers and the nations economy,'' said Walter B. McCormick Jr., president of the United States Telecom Association, the main trade group for the Bells. ''The courts have already overturned the F.C.C. majority's misguided rules three times. Now, it's time to move forward with certainty, so that all sides can work together on a constructive transition to a commercial marketplace.'' 
 Mr. Windhausen and executives from some of the rivals said that they were not surprised by Friday's decision but that if it were left standing, it could prove enormously problematic. ''It's not an exaggeration to say that this is a matter of life and death for our members,'' he said. ''This could be the end of competition and the end of the Telecom Act. This could be a giant step backward if we don't get this decision overturned.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPEALS COURTS (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); APPEALS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (90%); LOBBYING (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); LAWYERS (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); EXECUTIVES (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (72%) Telephones and Telecommunications; Telephones and Telecommunications

COMPANY: CENTURYLINK INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (57%) Verizon Communications Inc; Mci Communications Inc; At&t Corp; Sbc Communications; Bellsouth Corp; Qwest Communications International

TICKER: CTL (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (58%)

PERSON: Stephen Labaton; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2004



93 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 885 words

HEADLINE: House Seat Winner Discovers That It Pays to Pay Yourself

BYLINE: By GLEN JUSTICE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 4 

 BODY:
Stephanie Herseth, the South Dakota Democrat who won a hard-fought House race this week, is the first successful candidate to pay herself a salary to run for Congress.
 Ms. Herseth took advantage of changes to campaign finance rules two years ago that allowed federal candidates to pay themselves a wage from their campaign treasuries. By allowing candidates to maintain an income, the new rule was intended to encourage people who are not wealthy to run for office. 
 The rule is being tested this election season in Mississippi, Arkansas and other states, as candidates weigh the benefits of collecting a salary against the possible political attacks and image problems. 
 ''We thought long and hard,'' said Marvin Parks, a Republican House candidate from Arkansas who has elected to take a salary. ''I'm a guy of average means. If there was any other way, we'd do that.''
 Ms. Herseth, a 33-year-old lawyer, is probably the most high-profile candidate to pay herself from campaign funds. Since February, she has collected about $2,500 a month, the equivalent of $30,000 a year, said PoliticalMoneyLine, which tracks campaign finance. That is less than the roughly $84,400 that she made last year, and less than the $158,100 that members of Congress are paid.
 The campaign salary Ms. Herseth took is slightly below the national average wage of $36,764 in 2002, the latest number available from the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Her Republican opponent, Larry Diedrich, attacked her for taking any salary at all. 
 ''I'm not sure that the people feel this is a good thing,'' Mr. Diedrich said at a debate in May, according to local press accounts.
 Russ Levsen, a spokesman for the Herseth campaign who is now moving to her Congressional office, said: ''My sense is that those attacks were not particularly well received. People understand that you have to pay the bills.''
 The new rule limits how much money candidates can draw from their campaigns. They can take no more than the lower of two figures: their income the previous year or the annual salary of the office they are seeking. Incumbents are not eligible.
 ''There are so many advantages to incumbency,'' said Michael Toner, the Republican member of the Federal Election Commission who introduced the measure in 2002. ''We wanted to do something to level the playing field, to make it easier for people in Middle America to run, who can't afford to take two years off.''
 Ms. Herseth grew up on a farm in South Dakota, the daughter of a prominent political family. Her grandfather was governor, her grandmother was secretary of state and her father served two decades in the State Legislature. Ms. Herseth has a law degree from Georgetown University and worked at a law firm before running unsuccessfully for Congress two years ago. She later worked as executive director of the nonprofit South Dakota Farmers Union Foundation and taught college classes.
 ''It's hard for first-time candidates and young candidates to quit their job and take up campaigning,'' Mr. Levsen said. ''She was paid a modest salary, but it helps take a little bit of the financial risk away.'' Because Ms. Herseth is only filling a vacancy, she will have to face voters again in November, this time as an incumbent without the campaign pay.
 Though advocates of the campaign finance rule say Ms. Herseth's victory shows that voters will not penalize candidates for taking a paycheck, analysts say that there will always be political considerations. 
 ''It will always be a little tricky,'' said Jennifer Duffy, an analyst for the nonpartisan Cook Political Report. ''I don't think the donors will like to see it. They want donations to buy ads, not to pay for a salary.''
 Several candidates say they have drawn scrutiny, if not criticism, for paying themselves. In Mississippi, Clinton LeSueur, a Republican, was questioned by reporters when his House campaign started paying him. Mr. LeSueur has taken about $3,600 so far this year, according to PoliticalMoneyLine. He said he earned $18,000 last year as a consultant for the Community Action Agency in Yazoo City. 
 He said the pay was ''not even comparable to the work.'' He hopes the money will allow him to campaign full time and to avoid going into debt, as he did during his unsuccessful campaign in 2002.
 ''There's no way to get over on the system,'' he said. ''I wouldn't advise it as a way of getting rich.'' 
 In Arkansas, Mr. Parks said he, too, was questioned by reporters. He is taking about $3,700 a month, or roughly $44,000 a year, which he said was far less than what he was making before he ran.
 As the part-time minority leader in the Arkansas Legislature, Mr. Parks was paid about $12,500 a year. He also ran a glass repair business and worked as a consultant on economic and tax policy. He declined to disclose his income, except to say that that it was less than six figures. 
 ''The response from my contributors is that they understand,'' he said. ''They want me to use all my energy. It hasn't affected our fund-raising. My contributors realize that I'm not profiting off my campaign.'' 
 He said the ability to campaign full-time would probably encourage more candidates to collect an income. 
 ''I think it will catch on,'' Mr. Parks said. ''We've got a new congresswoman in South Dakota and it worked for her.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Stephanie Herseth with the speaker, J. Dennis Hastert, at a mock swearing-in on Thursday. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (92%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); STATISTICS (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (70%); LAWYERS (69%); LAW SCHOOLS (67%) Elections; Wages and Salaries; Finances

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (54%) House of Representatives (US)

PERSON: STEPHANIE HERSETH SANDLIN (92%) Glen Justice; Stephanie Herseth; Larry Diedrich

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) South Dakota; South Dakota

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2004



94 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 130 words

HEADLINE: Call It a Fiscal Crisis

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 David Brooks (column, June 1) writes that a panel of distinguished economists gave the Bush team ''a C-minus for long-term fiscal policy, a B for regulatory policy and a B-minus for trade and international economics.'' He says, ''These aren't the grades that win you a Rhodes scholarship, but they're not too bad.''
 In my graduate program in space physics at the University of New Hampshire (and in most other graduate programs), a B is considered a questionable grade, and a C-plus or lower is tantamount to a failed class.
 Apparently, our president and his advisers can't meet the basic standards required of a first-year grad student. I would hardly call this situation ''not too bad''; I'd call it a crisis of fiscal policy.

DAN SEATON
Durham, N.H., June 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NEW HAMPSHIRE (56%)

PERSON: Dan Seaton; David Brooks; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2004



95 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 859 words

PERSON: Steve Lacy

HEADLINE: Steve Lacy, 69, Who Popularized the Soprano Saxophone

BYLINE: By BEN RATLIFF

 BODY:
Steve Lacy, an American soprano saxophonist who spent more than half of his 50-year career living in Europe and helped legitimize his instrument in postwar jazz, died yesterday in Boston. He was 69.
 The cause was cancer, according to an announcement from the New England Conservatory of Music, where Mr. Lacy had been teaching since 2002. 
 After performing in New York, his hometown, Mr. Lacy moved to Italy and France, and became the most Europeanized of all expatriate American jazz musicians. He married one of his musical collaborators, the Swiss-born singer Irene Aebi, who survives him. He insisted on a literary dimension to his work, incorporating texts by novelists, poets and philosophers -- as well as visual-art and dance components, when time and money allowed. 
 For someone long considered an avant-garde artist, Mr. Lacy always insisted that nobody could get more avant-garde than Louis Armstrong; his best work was anti-highfalutin and doggedly practical. His most representative melodies, like ''The Bath'' and ''The Gleam,'' use gentle repetition and gentle wit; he developed his saxophone tone to be as attenuated as a Hemingway sentence, and his improvised lines as succinct. At the end of his life, hounded by tax problems in France, he returned to the United States, moving in 2002 to teach at the New England Conservatory and live in Brookline, Mass.
 Mr. Lacy formed musical partnerships and made records at an astonishing rate. He led working bands of up to eight musicians for nearly 30 years; he also performed and recorded often as a solo saxophonist and in duos with partners as different as the American pianist Mal Waldron and the Japanese percussionist Masahiko Togashi. One of his discographies lists 236 items up to the year 1997, including more than 20 solo saxophone albums. 
 Mr. Lacy was born Steven Lackritz and grew up on the Upper West Side of New York City. Clarinet was his first instrument; then, inspired by hearing Sidney Bechet's version, recorded in 1941, of a Duke Ellington song, ''The Mooche,'' he decided to pursue Bechet's instrument, the soprano saxophone. At the time -- it would still be a few years before John Coltrane would make it popular with his recording of ''My Favorite Things'' -- he had little competition.
 At the age of 21, he was performing the standard Dixieland repertory on both instruments at Stuyvesant Casino and the Central Plaza in New York; he shared stages with musicians like Henry Red Allen, Pee Wee Russell, Buck Clayton and Hot Lips Page, and his teacher, Cecil Scott. And he was also playing at the Newport Jazz Festival with the pianist Cecil Taylor, who was terrifying audiences by doing away with traditional structure and tonality. Mr. Lacy worked with Mr. Taylor for six years and with other bandleaders as well, including Gil Evans; he always described this mix as the best possible training for a jazz musician.
 One of them was Thelonious Monk, who became a guiding aesthetic master to Mr. Lacy for the rest of his life. Through playing with Monk in a quintet and big band, and studying his music assiduously, Mr. Lacy was able to absorb the elder musician's wit, economy, insistence on simple rhythmic patterns and range of melody. He once described Monk's music as perfect for the soprano saxophone: ''Not too high, not too low, not easy, not at all overplayed and most of all, full of interesting technical problems.'' 
 In 1966, with no work at home, Mr. Lacy began his long trip away from America. He took a group to Argentina and ended up stranded there for nine months because of political unrest. Later he headed to Rome with Ms. Aebi, where they worked with Musica Elettronica Viva, a quartet that blended modern-classical tendencies with improvisation and included two other American expatriates, Frederic Rzewski and Alvin Curran. After a brief stay in Rome, Mr. Lacy and Ms. Aebi moved to Paris in 1970, in the beginning of the era that he often called ''post-free'': all experimentation came grounded in scale and melody. And with his long-lasting sextet, which he started shortly after he arrived in Paris, he found an original compositional style: lilting and singsongy with a bitter twist, often compared to nursery rhymes, though Thelonious Monk's sense of melody was probably a greater influence.
 Mr. Lacy preferred to collaborate with artists from other fields. Most of the time that meant setting words to music, and in his group Ms. Aebi sang poetic texts by Herman Melville, Robert Creeley, Gregory Corso and Lao Tzu, among many others; in other works he collaborated with dancers, painters and stage designers. ''To me,'' he said in a 1990 interview, ''music is always about something or somebody, or from somebody or something. It's never in the blue, never abstract.'' 
 Mr. Lacy was awarded a MacArthur Fellowship in 1992; he published a book of writings and saxophone exercises, ''Findings,'' in 1994. The French government's ministry of culture appointed him Chevalier of the Order of Arts and Letters in 1989 and Commander in 2002. In addition to his wife, his survivors include a sister, Blossom Cramer, and a brother, Martin J. Lackritz.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Steve Lacy performing at Carnegie Hall in February. (Photo by Jack Vartoogian) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); JAZZ & BLUES (90%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); FESTIVALS (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); WRITERS (75%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (72%); POETRY (70%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (70%); VISUAL ARTS (69%); CANCER (57%) Deaths (Obituaries); Music; Biographical Information

Ben Ratliff

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (90%); EUROPE (88%)

CATEGORY: Music

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2004



96 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 952 words

PERSON: Victor Reuther

HEADLINE: Victor Reuther, Influential Labor Leader, Dies at 92

BYLINE: By WOLFGANG SAXON

 BODY:
Victor Reuther, the last of three brothers who helped unionize Detroit amid the labor strife of the 1930's and remained central to the growth of industrial unionism for the next third of the century, died on Thursday in Washington. He was 92.
 His death was announced by his family and Ron Gettelfinger, president of what is now the United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America in Detroit, which says it has 710,000 active members in the United States and Canada.
 Victor, along with his older brothers Roy and, especially, Walter, was at the center of a momentous struggle for union contracts to improve wages and working conditions. Victor Reuther, the more intellectually oriented, left-leaning sibling, came to represent the union's educational aspirations for its members. More important, he was its envoy on the international stage. 
 The Reuther brothers helped to build the union, originally known as the United Automobile Workers and still known as the U.A.W., as an agent representing assembly-line workers. While their work initially focused on automobile workers in the United States, it had a national and international impact both within and beyond the labor movement.
 The U.A.W. now represents workers in disparate sectors of the economy, ranging from small manufacturers to multinational corporations, as well as colleges, hospitals and nonprofit organizations.
 Walter Reuther, who was also a power in the American Federation of Labor-Congress of Industrial Organizations, was president of the U.A.W. from 1946 until his death in a plane crash in 1970. Roy Reuther was the union's political representative and legislative director; he died in 1968.
 Victor Reuther honed his activism as an orator and an organizer of sit-down strikers. He shaped the union's educational programs throughout the country, establishing labor institutes, radio and film production units and the union's own drama schools and summer camps.
 Later, from 1955 until his retirement in 1972, he was director of the union's international affairs department in Washington, while also supervising legislative affairs as head of the Washington office.
 In his book ''The Brothers Reuther and the Story of the U.A.W.: A Memoir'' (Houghton Mifflin, 1976), he recalled the often bloody confrontations of earlier times.
 ''During his years as a trade union activist,'' Mr. Gettelfinger, the union's president, said yesterday, ''Victor displayed great personal courage and endured great personal risk for the right of workers to organize. He faced tear gas and billy clubs during the U.A.W. organizational campaigns of the 1930's, and was a victim of an assassination attempt in 1949.''
 On that occasion, Mr. Reuther and his wife, Sophia, had just returned from Europe. A shotgun was fired through their living room window as they sat reading one night, in an attack that resembled an attempt on his brother Walter's life the year before.
 Victor was struck in the face and neck and blinded in one eye. Weeks later he addressed the U.A.W. convention. The crime was never solved.
 As director of international affairs for the U.A.W., Mr. Reuther forged links with noncommunist labor movements led by figures like Harold Wilson of Britain and Willy Brandt of Germany. He opposed the rigid anticommunist stance personified by George Meany of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.
 Nelson Lichtenstein, a labor historian and author of ''Walter Reuther: The Most Dangerous Man in Detroit,'' said Victor Reuther had been an architect of an alliance that, in effect, paved ''the road to the end of the cold war.''
 Victor George Reuther was born in Wheeling, W.Va., the son of a steel and brewery worker. His father was a local labor leader who taught his sons the basics of organization and public speaking.
 Victor studied economics and sociology at the University of West Virginia and Wayne State University in Detroit, where he roomed with Walter. The two pooled their savings and, in 1933, started bicycling their way through Europe.
 They worked in an automobile plant in Russia and at sea, before returning home by way of India and Japan. Victor started on the assembly line at the Kelsey Hayes Wheel Company, where he helped organize West Detroit Local 174 of the new automobile workers' union in 1936.
 That year he was a leader of a sit-down strike there, employing a tactic he and his brother had observed in France. It won the union recognition and a wage increase at Kelsey-Hayes. It also increased the local's membership from 78 to 30,000 within months, according to the union's own history.
 Victor Reuther moved on to Flint, Mich., where the U.A.W. and General Motors faced off in December 1936, with Mr. Reuther in charge of planning strategy for 50,000 strikers. After the union won a contract there, he played a central role in a four-year campaign that resulted in the unionization of the Ford Motor Company.
 In World War II he was a labor member of the federal War Manpower Commission. He was also a co-director of the U.A.W.'s war policy division, which promoted amicable settlements of labor disputes lest they shut down war production.
 He was closest to his brother Walter in internal union fights between the noncommunist wing and leftist radicals. At a crucial 1946 convention, the union's noncommunist faction elected Walter Reuther president and Victor Reuther educational director.
 Mr. Reuther's wife, Sophia Goodlavich Reuther, also a social activist and union organizer, died in 1996 after nearly 60 years of marriage. He is survived by two sons, Eric V., of Fort Myers, Fla., and John S., of Moscow and Manhattan; a sister, Christine Richey of Redding, Mass.; and seven grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.


CORRECTION-DATE: June 9, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An obituary on Saturday about Victor Reuther, the last of the three brothers who founded the United Automobile Workers union, misspelled the name of the city where his surviving sister, Christine Richey, lives. It is Reading, Mass., not Redding.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Victor Reuther, left, with his brothers Roy, center, and Walter in 1949, shortly after he was blinded in one eye in an assassination attempt. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); LABOR UNIONS (93%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (73%); ASSASSINATION (72%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (68%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (64%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (64%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (50%) Deaths (Obituaries); Labor; Organized Labor; Automobiles; Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (83%); AFL-CIO (54%) United Automobile Workers

Wolfgang Saxon; Walter Reuther; Roy Reuther

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (96%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

CATEGORY: Labor

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2004



97 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 563 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Growth in Jobs Continues; 248,000 Added in May
The nation's employers added 248,000 workers in May, the government reported. Over the last three months, employers have added a total of 947,000 jobs, suggesting that healthy job growth will sustain the nation's economic expansion through at least the fall.
 The unemployment rate was unchanged at 5.6 percent, mostly because the odds of finding work are now improving enough to draw hundreds of thousands of people back into the labor force in search of a job. [Page A1.]

Employment Report Lifts Stocks
The May employment report and Intel's strong midquarter update bolstered stocks. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 5.86 points, or 0.5 percent, to 1,122.50, and was up 0.2 percent for the week. The Dow Jones industrial average increased 46.91 points, to 10,242.82, while the Nasdaq composite index rose 18.36 points, to 1,978.62. [C4.]

China Altering Energy Sources
China, which has rattled energy markets with its appetite for oil and faces an urgent need to diversify beyond oil and coal, declared that it would generate 10 percent of its power through renewable sources by 2010. [C3.]

Wal-Mart Responds to Critics
Wal-Mart Stores announced that it would make several changes to improve conditions for its workers, including establishing a compliance group to oversee workers' pay, their hours and whether they take breaks. [C2.]

United Asks Judge for More Time
United Airlines has asked a bankruptcy court judge for three more months to file a restructuring plan. United is still waiting for a decision by the federal Air Transportation Stabilization Board on its revised application for $1.6 billion in loan guarantees, which would form the basis of its $2 billion plan. [C2.]

Republicans Sweeten Tax Proposal
House Republicans, trying to muster votes for a stalled corporate tax bill, sweetened their measure with a $10 billion program for tobacco farmers and a proposal to allow people to deduct sales taxes on their federal income tax returns. The new dealmaking was part of a much broader bill that would reshuffle more than $100 billion in corporate tax breaks. [C2.]

U.S. and European Regulators Meet
Roel C. Campos, left, a member of the Securities and Exchange Commission, and other securities regulators from the United States met with regulators from 27 European countries. They vowed to avoid future regulatory surprises and said that they would work together in addressing the need for regulatory reform in such areas like stock market structure and hedge funds. The Sarbanes-Oxley law caused anger in Europe because it affected European companies and auditors. [C3.]

Sun Plans to Release Source Code
Sun Microsystems plans to release source code from its Solaris operating system through an open source license, the same distribution strategy promoted by Linux. [C14.]

Jobless Rate Drops in Canada
Canadian employers created 56,000 jobs in May and the unemployment rate dropped to 7.2 percent from 7.3 percent in April. [C3.]

Layoffs Announced at Sikorsky
Sikorsky Aircraft announced 75 layoffs and said it would shut a production plant in Bridgeport, Conn., because of the cancellation of the Comanche helicopter program. [C3.]

Maytag Is Cutting 1,100 Jobs
Maytag announced plans to eliminate 1,100 jobs, or about 20 percent of its salaried work force, and merge its troubled Hoover vacuum unit with other divisions. [C4.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,242.82 up 46.91Nasdaq composite -- 1,978.62 up 18.3610-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.77% up 0.06The euro -- $1.2296 up 0.0077The dollar -- 111.00 yen up 0.16Graph tracks weekly closes of the Standard & Poor's 500 in 2003 and 2004.Yesterday: 1,122.50(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); SECURITIES LAW (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (79%); LABOR FORCE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); TAX INCENTIVES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (72%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (72%); SOLAR ENERGY (72%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (70%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (69%); OPEN SOURCE SOFTWARE (68%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (67%); CORPORATE TAX (67%); INCOME TAX (67%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (64%); ACCOUNTING (64%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (64%); JUDGES (64%); SALES TAX (62%); US SARBANES OXLEY ACT (62%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (61%); TOBACCO FARMING (50%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (71%); WAL-MART STORES INC (55%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (54%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (50%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (71%); WMT (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (55%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (55%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (54%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (50%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (50%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (92%); CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2004



98 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; When Private Mixes With Public; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1444 words

HEADLINE: A Financing Technique Grows More Popular and Also Raises Concerns

BYLINE: By RIVA D. ATLAS

 BODY:
The type of financing that backfired on Connecticut's pension fund and Forstmann, Little & Company is not just alive, but thriving.
 Often called private investments in public equity, or Pipes, the deals can be irresistible to big investors and small companies alike. Companies get cheap money, and the new investors get a stake in the company at less than the public would have to pay. 
 The chairman of Palm Harbor Homes, a seller of manufactured housing, was approached last month by a group of investors. The group offered to lend his business millions of dollars and would do so in just 24 hours. In return, the investors would get bonds that could be converted into common stock and a nice interest rate. 
 ''We thought it was a smart thing to do for our shareholders,'' said Lee Posey, chairman of Palm Harbor, which was able to borrow $65 million at about 2 percentage points less than it could have otherwise.
 But Palm Harbor's old shareholders have not fared well. The stock has slid nearly 11 percent since the deal was announced, reflecting the fact that the new securities will diminish their stake. 
 In the typical deal, the new securities dilute the holdings of existing share owners by 5 percent to 20 percent.
 Some critics bristle at the practice as unfair to smaller investors and even assert that big investors may be trying to manipulate market prices to make the deals more attractive for them. 
 ''It leads to market inefficiencies that clearly benefit those who play the game, and hurts the smaller investor who is not offered an opportunity to participate,'' said the manager of a small-capitalization mutual fund that does not invest in Pipes. 
 The Securities and Exchange Commission is gathering information from various market participants on these financings, according to people briefed on the inquiry.
 Because small-company stocks have been market leaders, the cycle is right for big investors to pursue private financings, including Pipes and related securities. They usually receive securities --often in the form of common stock at a discount of 5 percent to 20 percent of the market price -- or in the form of securities convertible into stock. The securities cannot be traded until they are registered, usually within 90 days of the offering. 
 Small companies, especially in cash-starved industries like technology and pharmaceuticals, are driving the issuance. So far this year, companies have raised nearly $7 billion through Pipes and related financings, on pace to finish ahead of the $12 billion total for each of the previous two years.
 At the market peak in 2000, the issuance topped $24 billion, according to PlacementTracker, a research service. Pipes acquired a bad name soon after, when the market for small-company stocks plunged, and several companies that had issued them ended up in bankruptcy.
 Forstmann Little is being sued by Connecticut over the state pension fund's share of losses from $2 billion in Pipe investments Forstmann purchased in XO Communications and McLeodUSA. Other buyout firms, including Hicks, Muse, Tate & Furst and the Thomas H. Lee Company, fared poorly as well.
 Market participants say that some features that made those deals particularly dangerous have been modified and that the currents ones are less likely to blow up as spectacularly as they did for Forstmann Little's investors. For example, there are no more death spiral convertibles, which give owners of the securities the right to more shares or stock at a lower price as the share price falls.
 ''The world has changed dramatically,'' said Lawrence Goldfarb, managing partner of BayStar Capital, one of the biggest investors in Pipes and related financings. The average performance of the companies doing the private financings has been good of late. Stocks of listed companies that issued Pipes in 2003 rose 50 percent on average six months after the deal was completed, said Robert Kyle, executive vice president of PlacementTracker.
 ''These are high beta stocks,'' he said. ''When Nasdaq does well, these companies do well.''
 Some investors suspect that buyers of Pipes and related private offerings are manipulating stock prices to improve the terms of the deals. Durect, a pharmaceutical company, raised $60 million last June through a private offering of convertible bonds. On the day after the financing was announced, the stock traded at more than 10 times its average daily volume, and lost nearly half its value, dropping to $2.52 a share from $4.
 Whitney George, a portfolio manager at Royce & Associates, wonders if buyers put downward pressure on the stock by betting its price would fall. A lower stock price would have enabled the buyers of the Durect bonds to convert their securities to stock at a lower price. The conversion rate was based on the stock price when the deal was completed, two days after the announcement.
 The offering ''knocked off about a third of the stock market capitalization in the short term, diluted existing shareholders by about a third for the long term,'' said Mr. George of Royce, which manages mutual funds specializing in small-capitalization companies and which owned 10 percent of Durect at the time.
 A market participant said the heavy trading could also be a result of pressure on the stock from investors hedging their positions. The stock has since rebounded to $3.75. A company spokesman did not return phone calls yesterday. 
 One investment adviser, Rhino Advisors and its president, Thomas Badian, agreed to pay $1 million last year to settle an S.E.C. investigation that it had manipulated the shares of a software company called the Sedona Corporation by arranging for short sales ''that contributed to the decline in price of Sedona's stock,'' the commission said. Rhino and Mr. Badian neither admitted nor denied wrongdoing as part of the settlement.
 ''The Rhino investigation is continuing,'' said James Coffman, assistant director of enforcement at the commission. ''We are interested in market participants who assist in these kind of activities.'' 
 Separately, the commission has requested information about trading in shares of companies before and after such financings are completed, according to people briefed on the matter. 
 Some well-known hedge funds participate in the financings, including Ramius Capital, founded by Peter Cohen, the former Shearson Lehman chief executive. Another big investor, Fletcher Capital Management, is led by Alphonse Fletcher Jr., a former trader at Kidder Peabody who sued the firm in 1991 over his compensation package and recently pledged $50 million to efforts to improve race relations. 
 Mutual fund managers are also buying private equity in companies that they already own part of. Funds managed by T. Rowe Price, Janus Capital and Legg Mason have bought Pipes.
 ''It's an opportunity for us to make a meaningful investment in a company without moving the market,'' said Jay Markowitz, a biotechnology analyst at T. Rowe Price. 
 Shares of Keryx Biopharmaceuticals, a developer of drugs to fight cancer and diabetes, raised $32 million through a Pipe financing in February. Its shares are up more than 24 percent. 
 The stock held up in part because the Pipe was sold to a group of investors that largely focus on health care stocks, including fund managers like T. Rowe Price that previously owned shares in the company, said Michael S. Weiss, the chief executive of Keryx. ''They were really making a core strategic investment in our company,'' he said.
 In other cases, Pipes have not done well, Mr. Weiss said, because their shares are sold to short-term traders, ''who are purely driven by the arbitrage'' of buying the Pipe and shorting a company's existing shares.
 Despite their opportunity to buy at a discounted price -- and their insistence that things have changed -- big investors are not immune to problems.
 Mr. Goldfarb's fund, BayStar, invested last October in a private placement of convertible preferred stock in the SCO Group, a technology company. A few months later, BayStar demanded its money back in a dispute over how SCO's management was handling litigation related to its interest in the Unix operating system.
 SCO's stock has fallen 75 percent since BayStar's investment, although Mr. Goldfarb said his loss was much smaller. ''This is a lesson in why a smart investor would hedge their Pipe investment,'' he said.
 On Tuesday, SCO agreed to redeem BayStar's convertible preferred stock, which had a face value of $40 million, for a mixture of cash and common shares. In return, the fund agreed to certain restrictions on selling the stock.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Lawrence Goldfarb, managing partner of BayStar Capital, is one of the biggest investors in Pipes and related financings. He recommends hedging some Pipes investments. (Photo by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)Chart: ''The Pipeline''When small-capitalization stocks are doing well, big investors become more interested in private investments in public companies, also called Pipes. Existing shareholders may complain because their holdings are diluted and big investors buy in at a discount.Graph tracks The Nasdaq Composite (weekly) from 1995-2004.Private investment in public equityIn billions95: $1.496: 4.197: 5.298: 3.099: 10.300: 24.701: 14.702: 12.403: 12.104: 6.8 (Through June 3)(Sources by Bloomberg Financial Markets
 PlacementTracker)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION FUNDS (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); BONDS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); COMMON STOCK (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); HEDGE FUNDS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (69%); CONVERTIBLE SECURITIES (69%); LITIGATION (65%); MODULAR & MANUFACTURED BUILDINGS (56%); INTEREST RATES (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%) Stocks and Bonds; Pipes (Financing Technique); Hedge Funds; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: FORSTMANN LITTLE & CO (92%); PALM HARBOR HOMES INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Baystar Capital

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (57%); NAICS321992 PREFABRICATED WOOD BUILDING MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (57%); SIC2452 PREFABRICATED WOOD BUILDINGS & COMPONENTS (57%)

PERSON: Riva D Atlas; Lawrence Goldfarb

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2004



99 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1170 words

HEADLINE: HEALTHY GROWTH OF 248,000 JOBS REPORTED IN MAY

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
For the third consecutive month, employers added workers at a rapid rate, the government reported yesterday, suggesting that healthy job growth will sustain the nation's economic expansion through at least the fall.
 The employment gains of 248,000 last month, which followed even stronger growth in the previous two months, provided President Bush with a fresh dose of positive economic news as the election campaign heats up. At the same time, his presumptive Democratic opponent, John Kerry, is in danger of losing the edge on one of his prime criticisms of the president: that the economy has failed to generate jobs in significant numbers on Mr. Bush's watch. 
 Despite the strong hiring pace, the unemployment rate remained at 5.6 percent, unchanged from April. The jobless rate failed to decline, however, mostly because the odds of finding work are now improving enough to draw hundreds of thousands of people back into the labor force in search of a job.
 Over the last three months, 947,000 jobs were added to the work force, signaling an end to the long period of almost uninterrupted job losses under President Bush, lasting from early 2001 to last fall, when job creation slowly began to revive. 
 The sharp job gains last month make an increase in short-term interest rates all but certain when the Federal Reserve's policy makers meet at the end of June. Analysts say that the central bank is likely to lift the 1 percent federal funds rate -- which stands at a 46-year low -- by 0.25 percent this month now that the economy appears to be growing strongly enough to absorb a small initial rate increase. The growth is coming even as the stimulus of mortgage refinancing and tax rebates related to the Bush tax cuts fades. 
 ''Everyone worried that the expansion was not self-sustaining,'' said Nigel Gault, chief economist for Global Insight, a forecasting firm. ''These job numbers signal that the recovery has a momentum of its own.''
 The accelerating job growth, if it continues at or near the pace of the last three months, would save President Bush from becoming the first chief executive since Herbert Hoover to preside over a decline in jobs during a four-year term.
 At the present pace, all of the 2.6 million jobs that were lost in the first 44 months of the Bush presidency would be recovered by August or September, barely in time for the election. More than 1.4 million are already back, most of them this year. 
 President Bush hailed the latest evidence of surging employment. The May report ''shows that our economy is vital and growing,'' he told reporters in Rome, his first stop on a three-day European trip.
 Senator Kerry welcomed the strong jobs report, too, but cautiously. ''That's great,'' he said, during a campaign appearance in Minneapolis. But he also said that the private sector had still not recovered 1.9 million jobs lost in the Bush years. 
 ''There are too many people struggling, while at the top end, people get ahead,'' he said. His assertion of 1.9 million lost jobs, however, ignores job creation in the public sector. That reduces the net loss to nearly 1.3 million.
 The financial markets greeted the jobs gains, which came in somewhat stronger than the consensus forecast of about 200,000, as if they had expected the news. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 46.91 points, or roughly half a percent, to 10,242.82, and the interest rate on the 10-year Treasury bond, a bellwether, barely budged. The trading reflected a widespread view that the Fed will raise the short-term rates that it controls, but by no more than one-quarter of a percentage point.
 In a speech yesterday in Washington, Donald L. Kohn, a Fed governor, seemed to confirm that view. He noted that for the last six months the unemployment rate had hovered at roughly its present rate, giving employers a large enough pool of job seekers to damp pressure on wages.
 The present unemployment rate, he said, ''is still somewhat above a level that on the basis of the experience of the last decade or so appears to be consistent with stable inflation.'' 
 The job creation in May was widespread. In addition, the number of hours worked also increased in May as it had in March and April, by even greater amounts than the Labor Department had originally reported. Total hours worked are now rising at an annual rate of nearly 4 percent, roughly double the rate reported in April. 
 ''That makes May the strongest jobs report of the last three months, even though it had the lowest number of jobs created,'' said William C. Dudley, director of domestic economic research for Goldman Sachs.
 Still, there were doubts from some quarters. The economy has expanded at an average annual rate of 5.6 percent over the last three quarters, but is slowing somewhat, according to many forecasters, perhaps to as low as 4.2 percent. That is partly because of the impact of higher energy prices and increased borrowing costs. By historical standards, a 4.2 percent rate represents a strong economy, but not strong enough to maintain job growth at its present pace, given the gains in worker efficiency in recent years.
 ''It is typical for a recovery to reach a point of inflection, when economic growth slows from its previous rapid pace,'' said Joel Popkin, president of Joel Popkin Inc., a forecasting firm. ''It looks as if that is happening now.''
 With the latest revisions, which added 90,000 for the previous two months, employment grew by 353,000 jobs in March and 346,000 in April. In May, the private sector alone generated 275,000 jobs, but that was offset in the overall count by a loss of 27,000 government jobs, mostly at the federal level.
 Job growth in May was particularly strong for temporary workers, in health care, in hotel and restaurant work and in retailing. These are often low-wage jobs, and Jared Bernstein, a senior labor economist at the Economic Policy Institute, argued yesterday that lower-wage jobs had been expanding as a share of total employment at the expense of higher-paying jobs. 
 ''We still have a problem of quality to be worried about,'' Mr. Bernstein said.
 But there was also significant job creation last month at the higher end, in manufacturing and construction, for example, and in management and professional ranks as well as in computer services.
 Manufacturing in particular appears to be experiencing a turnaround. Most of the 2.7 million jobs that were lost since the recession began in March of 2001 were in manufacturing. But since February, employment in this sector has been rising, with 32,000 jobs added last month. 
 Wage increases, too, have been on the rise, although not yet by amounts that would put upward pressure on the inflation rate. Hourly wages of production workers, averaging $15.64 in May, are up 2.2 percent over a 12-month period, matching April's rate of growth and also the rise in consumer prices. The 2.2 percent represents a gradual increase from 1.6 percent in February. 
 ''There is no inflation bogeyman in these numbers yet,'' Mr. Bernstein said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A man at a New York State Department of Labor resource center prepared job-related materials this week. Despite job gains in May, the unemployment rate held steady at 5.6 percent. (Photo by Bloomberg News)(pg. C14)Chart: ''The Job Picture Since 2001 . . . and the Picture in May''BY DEMOGRAPHICWhiteApril: 4.9%May: 5.0%BlackApril: 9.7May: 9.9Hispanic*April: 7.2May: 7.0Asian+April: 4.4May: 4.2Men 20 and overApril: 5.0May: 5.2Women 20 and overApril: 5.0May: 4.8Teenagers (16-19)April: 16.9May: 17.2OUT OF WORK (millions)TotalApril: 8.2May: 8.2Lost jobApril: 4.4May: 4.2Left jobApril: 0.8May: 0.8Returning to labor marketApril: 2.3May: 2.4New to labor marketApril: 0.6May: 0.7'HIDDEN' UNEMPLOYMENT (millions)Working parttime, but want full-time workApril: 4.6May: 4.7'Marginally attached' workers**April: 1.5May: 1.5BY TYPE OF WORK (millions)NonfarmApril: 131.0May: 131.2GoodsApril: 21.8May: 21.9ServicesApril: 109.1May: 109.3AgricultureApril: 2.2May: 2.3SHARE OF POPULATIONEmployedApril: 62.2%May: 62.2%Labor force (workers and unemployed)April: 65.9May: 65.9Figures are seasonally adjusted except where noted.*Hispanics can be of any race.+Not seasonally adjusted.**People not working but not counted as unemployed because they are not currently looking for work
 must have searched in the last 12 months and been available for work when surveyed. Includes discouraged workers. Not seasonally adjusted.Graphs track the following from 2001-2004:JOBS -- (Monthly change in nonfarm payrolls, seasonally adjusted) 2004: +248,000WAGES -- (Year-over-year change in wages) 2004: 2.2Graphs track the following from June 2003 through May 2004UNEMPLOYMENT -- (Civilian unemployment) 5.6 percentEMPLOYMENT -- (Nonfarm payroll survey: 131.2 million)(Household survey: 138.8 million)(pg. C14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (69%); TAX RELIEF (68%); MORTGAGE LOANS (65%); PERSONAL FINANCE (64%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (64%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (50%) Labor; Unemployment; Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; United States Economy; Labor

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%) Louis Uchitelle; George W (Pres) Bush; Herbert Clark (1874-1964) Hoover

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2004



100 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1239 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A2-9

Some Fear Power Vacuum At Central Intelligence
Some in the government are worried about a possible power vacuum at the Central Intelligence Agency caused by the departure this summer of George J. Tenet, the director, and James L. Pavitt, the clandestine services chief, the top two generals who have steered the nation's covert war on terrorism since the Sept. 11, 2001 attacks. A1

Ambassador to U.N. Named
President Bush named former Senator John C. Danforth, a prominent Republican moderate, to the post of American ambassador to the United Nations. A7

Iraqi Premier Defends Troops
Iraq's new prime minister defended the presence of American and British forces on Iraqi soil and warned that their departure would amount to a ''catastrophe'' for the country. A7

The top human rights official for the United Nations said that the mistreatment of Iraqi prisoners by American soldiers could constitute a war crime, and he called for the immediate naming of an international figure to oversee the situation. A6

The Army has opened a criminal investigation into the shooting death of an Iraqi civilian by an American soldier in Kufa. The man was a driver killed during a high-speed chase involving rebels. A6

American commanders worked out a new cease-fire in southern Iraq with Moktada al-Sadr, the rebel Shiite cleric, agreeing to the second truce in about a month. In Baghdad, five American soldiers were killed in an attack on their convoy. A7

Pope John Paul II, with President Bush at his side, reiterated his unhappiness over the invasion of Iraq and urged the president to speed the restoration of sovereignty. The pope mixed praise with a diplomatically worded but unmistakable expression of displeasure with the war and its aftermath. A8

Algeria Detains Terror Suspect
Algerian forces took custody of a man believed to be one of North Africa's most powerful Islamic terrorists. He is wanted in connection with many crimes, including his suspected role in the killing of 43 Algerian soldiers and the kidnapping of 32 European hostages, both last year. A9

Sharon Fires Cabinet Ministers
Prime Minister Ariel Sharon fired two hard-line conservative ministers in a risky move that should give him a cabinet majority for his Gaza withdrawal plan, but which could also break apart his right-wing coalition government. Neither minister agreed to go graciously. A9

Distress Over U.S. Troops
The report that thousands of American troops based in Germany and elsewhere in Europe will likely be redeployed did not come as a surprise in Europe, but it has enhanced deep worries that the plans would widely be seen as a sign of a weakened American engagement in Europe. A8

NATIONAL A10-13, 16

Questioning of Cheney Is Said to Have Taken Place
Vice President Dick Cheney has been interviewed by federal prosecutors who asked whether he knew of anyone at the White House who improperly disclosed the identity of an undercover C.I.A. officer, people who have been involved in official discussions about the case said. A1

Spain Objects to U.S. Methods
Spanish law enforcement officials involved in the investigation of the Madrid bombing are challenging key aspects of the American version of events, describing F.B.I. officials as rejecting evidence that they had wrongly arrested a Portland, Ore., lawyer in the case. A1

California Coast Deal Reached
The State of California and the owners of the 82,000-acre Hearst Ranch announced a tentative deal to protect much of the scenic property on California's central coast from any future development. A10

Charities to Profit From Death
Caroline Rose Hunt, the 81-year-old oil heiress who built a second fortune in hotels and resorts, has joined groups of other elderly, wealthy donors who have allowed insurance companies, hedge funds and other investors to insure their lives in exchange for a promise that part of the death benefits will flow to their favorite charities. A10

Candidate Pays Herself to Run
Stephanie Herseth, who won a seat in the House this week, is the first successful candidate to pay herself a salary to run for Congress. Ms. Herseth capitalized on changes to campaign finance rules, which allow candidates to pay themselves a wage from their campaign treasury. A10

American P.O.W.'s Lose Award
A federal appeals court in Washington threw out an award of almost $1 billion won last year by 17 former American prisoners of war for abuse they suffered in Iraq during the Persian Gulf war of 1991. A16

Change Proposed for Anthem
A psychiatrist from California wants to lower the key of the national anthem from B flat to G major. He argues that the simple change would make the anthem accessible to even the tonally challenged. A1

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Officials Urge a Review Of Suffolk's E.M.S. System
Critics say it is time to re-examine Suffolk County's emergency response network. The council that monitors it is pushing for big improvements and greater oversight, and emergency medical technicians are venting their frustrations. A1

Environmental Law Setback
A New York judge threw out the state's tough new acid rain rules on a technicality, providing a reprieve to owners of 10 old coal-fired power plants and derailing, at least temporarily, measures that were to have been a high point of Governor Pataki's environmental record. B1

New Convention Security
A top New York police officer defended plans to use four-sided barricades to control demonstrators at the Republican National Convention, saying the police want to keep streets open to allow for an emergency evacuation of the area. B3

Beliefs B6

SPORTSSATURDAY D1-8

EDUCATION

School Officials Suspended
The inquiry into financial wrongdoing at a Long Island school district has widened with the suspension of two employees, including the superintendent, and district officials have said that both employees were linked to companies that had billed the district. B1

OBITUARIES C16

ARTS & IDEAS B7-15

A Resignation in Protest
Kenneth Maxwell, the chief Latin American expert at the Council on Foreign Relations, quit as a protest, accusing the council of stifling debate on American intervention in Chile during the 1970's as a result of pressure from former Secretary of State Henry Kissinger. B7

BUSINESS DAY C1-14

Employers Increase Jobs
Employers added 248,000 workers in May, while the unemployment rate remained at 5.6 percent, unchanged from April. A1

Phone Competition Ruling
A federal appeals court rejected a request by the Federal Communications Commission and the nation's two largest long-distance telephone providers to extend regulations that give the companies discounts for leasing the network equipment of the four Bell operating companies. C1

Ex-Chairman Leaves Company
The former chairman and chief executive of Computer Associates, Sanjay Kumar, cut all ties to the company as a federal criminal investigation enters its final stages. C1

Salesforce Offering Delayed
Salesforce.com, which helps sales people track customers and prospective clients, said it might buy back shares it planned to sell in an initial offering if the company is found guilty of violating federal rules. C1

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A14-15

Editorials: Jobs and the recovery; the taxing merry-go-round; a victory for abortion rights; Carol E. Lee on Philadelphia's love for Smarty Jones.

Columns: David Brooks, Nicholas D. Kristof.

Bridge A18
TV Listings A23
Crossword A20
Weather A14


GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); WAR CRIMES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); ARMIES (77%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS (76%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); HOSTAGE TAKING (76%); WAR ON TERROR (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); IRAQ WAR (76%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (74%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (72%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (72%); SHOOTINGS (71%); RELIGION (65%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (84%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); MOQTADA AL-SADR (58%); DICK CHENEY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); AFRICA (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (52%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2004



101 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 437 words

HEADLINE: Jobs and the Recovery

 BODY:
Help is wanted, again. Confident in the economic recovery's staying power, American businesses have gone on an impressive hiring spree. Labor Department figures released yesterday show that the economy added nearly a million jobs in the last three months. Even the manufacturing sector has turned the corner. 
 There was a considerable time lag, as there often is in recoveries, between the first signs of strong growth last year and robust hiring. Employers were wary about rushing to add workers and made do with their existing payrolls for a time, helped in some cases by technologically driven productivity gains. But fears that jobs were never coming back, which led to grandstanding about outsourcing, proved overwrought.
 As hiring continues, personal incomes will need to rise to sustain further economic growth. Consumer spending and confidence, so vital to economic growth, is directly linked to take-home pay. That will be especially important as the Federal Reserve lifts its emergency-level monetary stimulus. Nobody doubts that interest rates have to move up. The only question is whether Alan Greenspan will be able to hit the right balance -- stern enough to keep inflation in check without applying a brake to growth or panicking the financial markets. Though it would have been wise to start raising rates earlier, the Fed might still have enough room to tighten monetary policy while presiding over measured growth. Of course, all bets could be off in the event of an external shock, like a serious disruption of oil supplies.
 President Bush will no doubt be pleased with the latest job figures, although he may wish for a better economy in Midwestern battleground states, where the recovery is weaker. Since voters didn't seem to blame the president for the slowdown early in his presidency, it's unclear how much credit they will be prepared to give him for the recovery. Lately, Mr. Bush's approval ratings have been falling even as the economic news has brightened.
 It's certain that Mr. Bush will continue to credit his tax cuts for the comeback. These are the same cuts, you may recall, that were first designed as a means of ''giving back'' part of the mounting surplus to the public. Then, as the surplus evaporated, they were relabeled a stimulus plan. Now, with no surplus and no slump -- and with looming deficits a threat to long-term growth -- it's hard to think of what Mr. Bush can call his tax cuts to justify their renewal. The administration could go with truth in advertising, and simply relabel them a handout to wealthy families at a time of war and deficits. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); TAX RELIEF (88%); TAX INCENTIVES (88%); TAXES & TAXATION (86%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); OUTSOURCING (78%); BUDGETS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); MONETARY POLICY (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); INTEREST RATES (67%); TAX LAW (66%) United States Economy; Editorials; Credit; Budgets and Budgeting; Taxation; Finances; Labor; United States Economy; Unemployment

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (77%) Alan (Chmn) Greenspan; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2004



102 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; The Ad Campaign; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 318 words

HEADLINE: A Stadium Debate Moves to the TV Screen

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
After more than four years of rumors, hazy proposals and discussions, the battle over plans to build a $1.4 billion football stadium over the rail yards on the West Side of Manhattan is now fully engaged, and has even reached the region's television sets.
 The proposed 75,000-seat stadium, which would be home to the New York Jets, and a $600 million public subsidy were the subject of a stormy City Council hearing on Thursday. On Tuesday, the battle moved to the airwaves as the Jets and their supporters and critics spent hundreds of thousands of dollars each on television commercials to sway public opinion. 
 More than a simple 75,000-seat stadium with a retractable roof is at stake. The structure would be profitable for the Jets, while standing as a physical legacy of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, who hopes it will anchor his administration's plans to redevelop the West Side into a high-rise commercial and residential district. The building would also double as an Olympic stadium if the city wins its bid for the 2012 Summer Games.
 But the proposed stadium has sparked opposition among local residents, elected officials and community groups, as well as some Broadway theater owners and the owners of a potentially competing venue, Madison Square Garden. They contend that the stadium does not deserve a $600 million public subsidy.
 Three separate groups have purchased airtime this month in advance of a public approval process that is about to begin at City Hall and in Albany, all in hopes that viewers will influence elected officials.
 Running advertisements in support of the stadium are the Jets and a coalition of hotel and building-trades unions that say the stadium will create jobs.
 A commercial opposed to the stadium is sponsored by a group of West Side neighborhood organizations and politicians led by Cablevision, owner of Madison Square Garden, which views the project as a competitor. 


GRAPHIC: PhotosCharts: ''Another Plan for $600 Million''This is a new 30-second commercial against the proposed West Side stadium being broadcast in New York by the New York Association for Better Choices.PRODUCER -- Axelrod & AssociatesON THE SCREEN -- The 30-second commercial opens with a shot of the New York skyline as the narrator asks, ''What could New York do with $600 million?'' The camera cuts to a series of classic images evoking New York City: from smiling children in a classroom to a fire station, a mother and child at a health care clinic, an elderly woman in a wheelchair and, finally, a shot of ground zero. The advertisement then juxtaposes those neighborhood scenes against the image of a rotating football as the narrator describes a $600 million subsidy for the Jets stadium. It concludes with the skyline and a call to action.THE SCRIPT -- ''What could New York do with $600 million? Rebuild our schools. Put a computer in every classroom or reopen neighborhood fire stations. With $600 million, we could improve community health clinics, and offer more affordable care to New Yorkers. Or step up the rebirth of Lower Manhattan. So here's the choice: Invest $600 million in neighborhoods, or spend it on a West Side stadium for the Jets. Contact us today, and say no to a West Side stadium.''ACCURACY -- There is no dispute that the city and the state have pledged $600 million toward the construction of a $1.4 billion stadium for the Jets at a time when New York City has many pressing needs. The Jets, in turn, have committed to raising $800 million for the project, which will cost two to three times more than recent stadiums in other cities. The Bloomberg administration and the Jets say that activity at the stadium will generate $30 million more in tax revenues every year than the city and state will spend to pay off the bonds for the project. If the stadium is not built, there is no way of knowing whether the money would be used for the projects mentioned in the ad, or spent on other economic development projects.SCORECARD -- Critics of the stadium project effectively raise an important public policy question in asking whether it is better to spend $600 million in scarce municipal resources on a football stadium, or on the other kinds of things many New Yorkers need. But the ad fails to disclose its underlying business purpose. Although the sponsoring association includes neighborhood groups and unions, the commercial was paid for by Cablevision, owner of Madison Square Garden. The company fears that a new stadium with a retractable roof would compete for circuses and other events that are currently booked into the Garden.To help pay for some of those firehouses and school computers, Cablevision might consider paying property taxes on the Garden. Taking advantage of a city exemption, the company has avoided more than $160 million in such taxes since 1982. Of course, the Jets would not pay property taxes on their stadium, either.Chart: ''The Team Makes Its Case''This is a new 30-second commercial in support of the proposed West Side stadium being broadcast in New York by the New York Jets.PRODUCER -- Mike Murphy.ON THE SCREEN -- The commercial opens with an aerial view of the Empire State Building, dissolving to a view of the far West Side of Manhattan as a graphic alerts viewers to ''important economic facts.'' The words ''18,000 construction jobs'' and ''6,900 permanent jobs'' flash on the screen as images of schools, a construction site and a police officer are interspersed with animated images of the proposed stadium. The advertisement ends with a dramatic animated view of the stadium from the water, with fireworks exploding overhead.THE SCRIPT -- ''There are important economic facts every New Yorker should know as the far West Side rail pit is converted into a new sports and convention center, creating 18,000 construction jobs and 6,900 permanent jobs. The convention corridor will generate millions more in new city and state revenues than it costs, helping fund schools, police and health care. The Jets pay $800 million, and a flexible design means sports and conventions can both use the same building. Learn the facts for yourself.''ACCURACY -- The commercial lays out the projected benefits of the $1.4 billion project but neglects to mention that it will require $600 million from state and city governments. It is far from clear how many construction workers will be employed and for how long, but ''6,900 permanent jobs'' appears to be aggressively optimistic. Giants Stadium in New Jersey, the Jets' current home, has only about 95 permanent employees
 another 935 people are brought in 20 times a year for football games. And the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center employs the equivalent of 920 full-time workers.SCORECARD -- The ad effectively makes the supporters' case for the economic benefits of a stadium, but those benefits are probably overstated here. Several studies on the economic impact of new sports stadiums around the country have showed that they usually enrich the owners and the players but do little to generate new economic activity outside the stadium. The benefits may be greater, however, for a stadium that is also used for conventions, as is the plan for this project, rather than for just 10 home games a year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (94%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); MAYORS (78%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (78%); SPORTS (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (77%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); RELOCATIONS (75%); POLITICS (74%); THEATER (72%); OLYMPICS (72%); APPROVALS (72%); JOB CREATION (71%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (67%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (56%); LABOR UNIONS (50%) Football; Relocation of Business; Stadiums and Arenas; Area Planning and Renewal; Advertising and Marketing

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (94%); NEW YORK GIANTS (59%) New York Jets

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (71%) Charles V Bagli

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2004



103 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: Don't Know, Should Care

BYLINE: By Jeffrey D. Sachs. 
Jeffrey D. Sachs is the director of the Earth Institute at Columbia.

 BODY:
George Tenet's resignation this week came after failures of American intelligence in the Iraq war as well as in the lead-up to the Sept. 11 attacks. But the government's intelligence failures extend far beyond the C.I.A. and the countries where we are at war or chasing terrorists. In the world's poorest regions, from the Andes to Central Asia, the government seems to operate almost blindly, facing challenges that it simply does not understand and therefore can't resolve.
 This isn't a problem that started in this Bush administration, though the combination of ignorance and arrogance in President Bush's foreign policy has proved especially lethal. Since the early 1980's, American development programs have been gutted, to the point that there is little institutional understanding about societies seething because of mass unemployment, rapid population growth, pervasive disease and chronic hunger. 
 Whether I look at the National Security Council, the Treasury, the Council of Economic Advisers, the United States Agency for International Development, or the relevant Congressional committees, I see woefully few individuals with expertise about the low-income world. This is too bad, because the low-income world (roughly, those who live and die on less than $2 per day) constitutes 40 percent of humanity -- and most of the places where American troops have fought and died in recent decades.
 When I went to key Bush administration officials in 2001 to urge stepping up the battle against the AIDS pandemic, my counterparts were lawyers, holdovers from the cold war and political operatives. What was lacking was professional expertise, which was bottled up at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the National Institutes of Health, neither of which had been given the lead in setting AIDS policy. Nor was USAID any better. Its budget and expertise had been so sapped by 2001 that there were few independent thinkers left, and even fewer who knew the details of the AIDS catastrophe in Africa. 
 Even though there is genuine interest in the Bush administration for battling AIDS, too much politics and too little professionalism resulted in years of delay in starting President Bush's global AIDS initiative, and millions died as a result. That disheartening loss of time and opportunity has been matched in other circumstances. When it has been urgent in recent years to confront challenges arising from African poverty, Andean political instability or environmental catastrophes in Asia, there has been almost nobody to speak with in senior positions of government. When an economic crisis pushed Bolivia's democratically elected government over the cliff last year, for instance, senior United States officials with responsibility for South America showed that they were utterly unqualified to respond. 
 In truth, worrying about places like Bolivia or Ethiopia is considered hopelessly soft or politically irrelevant in high government circles -- until disaster strikes. That attitude is the key to understanding why our government was unable to anticipate and head off disasters in Afghanistan, Cambodia, Haiti, Nicaragua, Somalia, Vietnam or the many other places where we have squandered lives and money. 
 The undoing of American foreign policy is captured in the budget numbers. Long gone are the Marshall Plan times, when we dedicated several percent of our gross domestic product to European reconstruction. The United States will spend about $450 billion this year on the military but only $15 billion on official development assistance. The 30-to-1 ratio is mirrored by a similar imbalance in our thinking. Our military expertise is undoubted. Our ability to understand what exists before and after wars in low-income countries is nearly nonexistent.
 Changing all of this will require much more than recognizing the errors of the Iraq war. A good starting point would be to rebuild the USAID into a pre-eminent agency for understanding and resolving human catastrophes and security threats arising from extreme poverty. This agency requires a professional, nonpoliticized leadership and staff; a new mandate to study a world economy of startling inequalities; increased financial resources to help fragile and impoverished countries before they fall into chaos; and a rank as a cabinet-level department, so that expertise gets a hearing at the centers of power. 
 But our efforts will need to go beyond one agency. We must have leaders who recognize that the problems of the poor aren't trifles to leave to do-gooders, but are vital strategic issues. For the first time in decades, we must strive to understand problems -- tropical disease, malnutrition and the like -- that are unfamiliar to us but are urgent concerns of billions of people abroad. In the case of a superpower, ignorance is not bliss; it is a threat to Americans and to humanity.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by David Sandlin) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); TERRORISM (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (88%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (88%); AIDS POLICY (88%); BUDGETS (88%); COLD WAR (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); POLITICS (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); EPIDEMICS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (73%); TRENDS (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (72%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (66%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (65%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (61%) United States International Relations; Economic Conditions and Trends; Third World and Developing Countries; Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome; United States Armament and Defense; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Foreign Aid ; United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (56%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%) Jeffrey D (Prof) Sachs; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); ASIA (93%); BOLIVIA (92%); IRAQ (92%); CENTRAL ASIA (92%); ETHIOPIA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); AFRICA (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2004



104 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 62

LENGTH: 3104 words

HEADLINE: What The Bagel Man Saw

BYLINE: By Stephen J. Dubner and Steven D. Levitt. 
Stephen J. Dubner, an author and journalist in New York City, and Steven D. Levitt, an economist at the University of Chicago, are writing a book about the economics of baby names, cheating, crack dealing and real estate.

 BODY:
Once upon a time, Paul F. dreamed big dreams. While studying agricultural economics at Cornell, he wanted to end world hunger. Instead, after doctoral work at M.I.T., he wound up taking a job with a research institute in Washington, analyzing the weapons expenditures of the United States Navy. This was in 1962. After four years came more of the same: analyst jobs with the Bureau of the Budget, the Institute for Defense Analyses, the President's Commission on Federal Statistics. Still, he dreamed. He had ''potent research ideas,'' as he recalls them now, which the Environmental Protection Agency failed to appreciate. He developed a statistical means of predicting cancer clusters, but because he was an economist and not a doctor, he couldn't make headway with the National Cancer Institute. He still loved the art of economics -- the data-gathering, the statistical manipulation, the problem-solving -- but it had led him to a high-level dead end. He was well paid and unfulfilled. ''I'd go to the office Christmas party, and people would introduce me to their wives or husbands as the guy who brings in the bagels,'' he says. '''Oh! You're the guy who brings in the bagels!' Nobody ever said, 'This is the guy in charge of the public research group.''' 
 The bagels had begun as a casual gesture: a boss treating his employees whenever they won a new research contract. Then he made it a habit. Every Friday, he would bring half a dozen bagels, a serrated knife, some cream cheese. When employees from neighboring floors heard about the bagels, they wanted some, too. Eventually he was bringing in 15 dozen bagels a week. He set out a cash basket to recoup his costs. His collection rate was about 95 percent; he attributed the underpayment to oversight.
 In 1984, when his research institute fell under new management, he took a look at his career and grimaced. ''I was sick of every aspect of the whole thing,'' he says. ''I was discouraged. I was tired of chasing contracts. So I said to management: 'I'm getting out of this. I'm going to sell bagels.'''
 His economist friends thought he had lost his mind. They made oblique remarks (and some not so oblique) about ''a terrible waste of talent.'' But his wife supported his decision. They had retired their mortgage; the last of their three children was finishing college. Driving around the office parks that encircle Washington, he solicited customers with a simple pitch: early in the morning, he would deliver some bagels and a cash basket to a company's snack room; he would return before lunch to pick up the money and the leftovers. It was an honor-system commerce scheme, and it worked. Within a few years, he was delivering 700 dozen bagels a week to 140 companies and earning as much as he had ever made as a research analyst. He had thrown off the shackles of cubicle life and made himself happy. 
 He had also -- quite without meaning to -- designed a beautiful economic experiment. By measuring the money collected against the bagels taken, he could tell, down to the penny, just how honest his customers were. Did they steal from him? If so, what were the characteristics of a company that stole versus a company that did not? Under what circumstances did people tend to steal more, or less?
 As it happens, his accidental study provides a window onto a subject that has long stymied academics: white-collar crime. (Yes, shorting the bagel man is white-collar crime, writ however small.) Despite all the attention paid to companies like Enron, academics know very little about the practicalities of white-collar crime. The reason? There aren't enough data. 
 A key fact of white-collar crime is that we hear about only the very slim fraction of people who are caught. Most embezzlers lead quiet and theoretically happy lives; employees who steal company property are rarely detected. With street crime, meanwhile, that is not the case. A mugging or a burglary or a murder is usually counted whether or not the criminal is caught. A street crime has a victim, who typically reports the crime to the police, which generates data, which in turn generate thousands of academic papers by criminologists, sociologists and economists. But white-collar crime presents no obvious victim. Whom, exactly, did the masters of Enron steal from? And how can you measure something if you don't know to whom it happened, or with what frequency, or in what magnitude? 
 Paul F.'s bagel business was different. It did present a victim. The victim was Paul F. 
It is 3:32 a.m., and Paul F. is barreling down a dark Maryland road when he jams on the brakes and swears. ''I forgot my hearing aids,'' he mutters. He throws the gearshift into reverse and proceeds to drive backward nearly as fast as he had been driving forward.
 He is 72, and his business is still thriving. (Thus his request to mask his full name and his customers' identities: he is wary of potential competitors poaching his clients.) His daughter, son-in-law and one other employee now make most of the deliveries. Today is a Friday, which is the only day Paul F. still drives. Semiretirement has left him more time to indulge his economist self and tally his data. He now knows, for instance, that in the past eight years he has delivered 1,375,103 bagels, of which 1,255,483 were eaten. (He has also delivered 648,341 doughnuts, of which 608,438 were eaten.)
 He knows a good deal about the payment rate, too. When he first went into business, he expected 95 percent payment, based on the experience at his own office. But just as crime tends to be low on a street where a police car is parked, the 95 percent rate was artificially high: Paul F.'s presence had deterred theft. Not only that, but those bagel eaters knew the provider and had feelings (presumably good ones) about him. A broad swath of psychological and economic research has argued that people will pay different amounts for the same item depending on who is providing it. The economist Richard Thaler, in his 1985 ''Beer on the Beach'' study, showed that a thirsty sunbather would pay $2.65 for a beer delivered from a resort hotel but only $1.50 for the same beer if it came from a shabby grocery store.
 In the real world, Paul F. learned to settle for less than 95 percent. Now he considers companies ''honest'' if the payment is 90 percent or more. ''Averages between 80 percent and 90 percent are annoying but tolerable,'' he says. ''Below 80 percent, we really have to grit our teeth to continue.''
 In recent years, he has seen two remarkable trends in overall payment rates. The first was a long, slow decline that began in 1992. ''All my friends say: 'Aha! Clinton!''' Paul F. says. ''Although I must say that most of my friends are conservative and inclined to see such things where others might not.'' The second trend revealed in Paul F.'s data was even starker. Entering the summer of 2001, the overall payment rate had slipped to about 87 percent. Immediately after Sept. 11, the rate spiked a full 2 percent and hasn't slipped much since. (If a 2 percent gain in payment doesn't sound like much, think of it this way: the nonpayment rate fell from 13 percent to 11 percent, which amounts to a 15 percent decline in theft.) Because many of Paul F.'s customers are affiliated with national security, there may be a patriotic element to this 9/11 effect. Or it may represent a more general surge in empathy. Whatever the reason, Paul F. was grateful for the boost. He expends a great deal of energy hectoring his low-paying customers, often in the form of a typewritten note. ''The cost of bagels has gone up dramatically since the beginning of the year,'' reads one. ''Unfortunately, the number of bagels and doughnuts that disappear without being paid for has also gone up. Don't let that continue. I don't imagine that you would teach your children to cheat, so why do it yourselves?''
 He is impatient and cantankerous but in sum agreeable. Dressed in jeans and sneakers, with busy eyes and a wavy fringe of gray hair, he awoke this Friday at 3 a.m. Working out of his garage, he first loaded 50 cardboard trays of doughnuts -- a local bakery delivered them overnight -- into the back of his van. He drives an unmarked white Ford E-150 rigged with a bagel-warming compartment. (The van was never stopped during the D.C. sniper attacks, but Paul F.'s tendency to park at the curb caused problems in the near aftermath of 9/11. One customer left a note saying: ''Please park in a parking space. You are freaking a lot of people out.'') 
 After the doughnuts, Paul F. loaded two dozen money boxes, which he made himself out of plywood. A money slot is cut into the top. When he started out, he left behind an open basket for the cash, but too often the money vanished. Then he tried a coffee can with a slot in its plastic lid, which also proved too tempting. The wooden box has worked well. Each year he drops off about 7,000 boxes and loses, on average, just one to theft. This is an intriguing statistic: the same people who routinely steal more than 10 percent of his bagels almost never stoop to stealing his money box -- a tribute to the nuanced social calculus of theft. From Paul F.'s perspective, an office worker who eats a bagel without paying is committing a crime; the office worker apparently doesn't think so. This distinction probably has less to do with the admittedly small amount of money involved than with the context of the ''crime.'' (The same office worker who fails to pay for his bagel might also help himself to a long slurp of soda while he's filling a glass in a self-serve restaurant, but it is extremely unlikely that he will leave the restaurant without paying.)
 After retrieving his hearing aids, he heads for the bagel shop that provides him with roughly 50 dozen bagels, in six flavors, every day. He drives nearly 80 m.p.h. along empty highways and discusses what he has learned about honesty. He is leery of disparaging individual companies or even most industries, for fear it will hurt his business. But he will say that telecom companies have robbed him blind, and another bagel-delivery man found that law firms aren't worth the trouble. He also says he believes that employees further up the corporate ladder cheat more than those down below. He reached this conclusion in part after delivering for years to one company spread out over three floors -- an executive floor on top and two lower floors with sales, service and administrative employees. Maybe, he says, the executives stole bagels out of a sense of entitlement. (Or maybe cheating is how they got to be executives.) His biggest surprise? ''I had idly assumed that in places where security clearance was required for an individual to have a job, the employees would be more honest than elsewhere. That hasn't turned out to be true.''
 Since he started delivering bagels, Paul F. has kept rigorous data -- which, when run through a computer and measured against external factors ranging from the local weather to the unemployment rate, can tell some interesting stories. Other conclusions, meanwhile, are purely intuitive, based on Paul F.'s 20-year exposure to bagel behavior.
 He has identified two great overriding predictors of a company's honesty: morale and size. Paul F. has noted a strong correlation between high payment rates and an office where people seem to like their boss and their work. (This is one of his intuitive conclusions.) He also gleans a higher payment rate from smaller offices. (This one is firmly supported by the data.) An office with a few dozen employees generally outpays by 3 percent to 5 percent an office with a few hundred employees. This may seem counterintuitive: in a bigger office, a bigger crowd is bound to convene around the bagel table -- providing more witnesses to make sure you drop your money in the box. (Paul F. currently charges $1 for a bagel and 50 cents for a doughnut.) But in the big-office/small-office comparison, bagel crime seems to mirror street crime. There is far less crime per capita in rural areas than in cities, in large part because a rural criminal is more likely to be known (and therefore caught). Also, a rural community tends to exert greater social incentives against crime, the main one being shame.
 The bagel data also show a correlation between payment rate and the local rate of unemployment. Intuition might have argued that these two factors would be negatively correlated -- that is, when unemployment is low (and the economy is good), people would tend to be freer with their cash. ''But I found that as the unemployment rate goes down, dishonesty goes up,'' Paul F. says. ''My guess is that a low rate of unemployment means that companies are having to hire a lower class of employee.'' The data also show that the payment rate does not change when he raises bagel prices, though volume may temporarily fall.
 If the payment tendencies that Paul F. has noted so far might be called macro trends, it is the micro trends -- those reflecting personal mood -- that are perhaps most compelling. Weather, for instance, has a major effect on the payment rate. Unseasonably pleasant weather inspires people to pay a significantly higher rate. Unseasonably cold weather, meanwhile, makes people cheat prolifically; so does heavy rain and wind. But worst are the holidays. The week of Christmas produces a 2 percent drop in payment rates -- again, a 15 percent increase in theft, an effect on the same order, in reverse, as 9/11. Thanksgiving is nearly as bad; the week of Valentine's Day is also lousy, as is the week straddling April 15. There are, however, a few good holidays: July 4, Labor Day and Columbus Day. The difference in the two sets of holidays? The low-cheating holidays represent little more than an extra day off from work. The high-cheating holidays are freighted with miscellaneous anxieties and the high expectations of loved ones. 
 As considerable as these oscillations may be, the fact is that a poorly paying office rarely turns into a well-paying office, or vice versa. This has led Paul F. to believe in a sobering sort of equilibrium: honest people are honest, and cheaters will cheat regardless of the circumstance. ''One time when I was cleaning up leftovers,'' he recalls, ''a man came and took a doughnut while I was standing there, and started to walk away without putting any money in the box. I never challenge people about paying, but in that place, despite notes and appeals to management, the payment rate had been abysmal, and I was fed up. I said to the guy, 'Are you going to pay for that?' And he said, 'Oh, I left my wallet in my car,' and started to put the doughnut back. Now I knew, and he knew that I knew, that he hadn't left his wallet in the car, but he was too cheap to pay 50 cents for a doughnut and too brazen to say, 'Oh, I'm sorry, I just wasn't thinking,' which is what anyone with half a conscience would say.''
Once the van is loaded with fresh bagels, sorted by the dozen into white paper bags that Paul F. had earlier labeled with customers' names, he begins his rounds. It is 5:02 a.m. The first stop is an office building in northern Virginia. His routine is nearly always the same. He grabs one of the magnetic ID cards dangling from his rearview mirror, hangs it from his neck, jumps around to the side of the van, loads up a cardboard box with bagels, doughnuts and a cash box and practically sprints inside. In the snack room, he dumps the bagels from their bag, folds back the top of the doughnut tray, plunks his money box on the table and hustles out. Then back into the van, which he drives maniacally even from one office-park cul-de-sac to the next. (When a woman in a Lexus tarries at the entrance to one parking lot, he calls her terrible names.) Another office building, another ID card, another delivery. You can tell the defense contractors by the art on the walls: achingly sensual black-and-white photographs of missiles and armored personnel carriers. Some of the break rooms have vending machines whose offerings -- ''Spicy Chicken Biscuit'' and ''Chopped Beefsteak Sandwich'' -- look so vile that the simple appeal of a warm, fresh bagel becomes all the more apparent.
 By 9 a.m., he has made all his deliveries. At 11, he will start picking up leftovers and the money boxes. Until then, it is time for his weekly Friday morning breakfast with a dozen of his old economist friends. They meet in the ground-floor cafeteria of the office building where one of them now works. They swap gossip, tax tips, Ziploc bags of pipe tobacco.
 These are some of the same friends who 20 years ago told Paul F. that his bagel business would never work. People cannot be trusted, they said. Their conversation this morning continues along those lines. One man cites a story he heard about a toll-collector strike in England. During the strike, drivers were asked simply to put their money into a box. As it turned out, the government collected more toll money during the strike -- which suggests that the drivers were at least fairly honest, but also that the toll collectors had been skimming like mad. Another economist at the table is now a tax preparer. He ticks off a long list of common tax evasions his clients try to use -- lying about the cost basis of stocks is perhaps the favorite -- and reminds the others that the United States tax code is, like Paul F.'s bagel business, largely built on an honor system.
 Amid all the talk of cheating, lying and scamming, Paul F. takes the floor to declare his faith in humankind. ''You guys know the story about the Ring of Gyges, right?'' he says. 
 A man named Gyges, he explains, came upon a cave and, inside it, a skeleton wearing a ring. When Gyges put on the ring, he found that it made him invisible. Now he was faced with a choice: would he use his invisibility for good or evil? The story comes from Plato's ''Republic.'' It was told by a student named Glaucon, in challenge to a Socratic teaching about honesty and justice. ''Socrates was arguing against the idea that people will be dishonest if given the chance,'' Paul F. says. ''His point was that people are good, even without enforcement.''
 But Paul F. doesn't tell his friends how Glaucon's story ends. Gyges actually did woeful things once he got the ring -- seduced the queen, murdered the king and so on. The story posed a moral question: could any man resist the temptation of evil if he knew his acts could not be witnessed? Glaucon seemed to think the answer was no. But Paul F. sides with Socrates -- for he knows that the answer, at least 89 percent of the time, is yes. 


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Jason Fulford)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ETHICS (77%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (77%); DEFENSE SPENDING (77%); CANCER (77%); NAVIES (72%); BAKERIES (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (70%); CHRISTMAS (66%); CONTRACT AWARDS (64%) Bakeries and Baked Products; Robberies and Thefts; Ethics; White Collar Crime; Labor; Bakeries and Baked Products

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (58%); INSTITUTE FOR DEFENSE ANALYSES (57%); NATIONAL CANCER INSTITUTE (56%)

PERSON: Stephen J Dubner; Steven D Levitt

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Maryland; Virginia

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2004



105 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review; The World; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1130 words

HEADLINE: As Oil Prices Soar, OPEC Says 'Not Our Fault'

BYLINE: By NEELA BANERJEE

DATELINE: Beirut, Lebanon 

 BODY:
AT their meeting here last week, members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries seemed to abdicate responsibility for the recent record-high oil prices. Purnomo Yusgiantoro, the group's president and Indonesia's minister of energy, complained in his opening remarks that ''the high prices have been caused by a combination of factors over which OPEC has no control -- speculation on futures markets, tightness in the U.S. gasoline market, geopolitical concerns and higher-than-expected oil demand growth, especially in China and the U.S.A.''
 This is not entirely the case. The 10 voting members of the cartel did help drive up prices over the last 18 months, underestimating world demand and sometimes cutting production to buoy prices. 
 But it is true that the market OPEC has successfully managed over the last five years seems to be slipping from its grip. By pumping less oil OPEC can keep prices from falling, but it has little power to curtail violence and political instability, and so cannot keep prices from spiraling upward on bad news. For consumers, that could mean continual volatility in fuel prices, and the possibility of continued high prices, which have hit $40 a barrel over the last month.
 ''How can they control prices when there are three wars in the Middle East?'' asked Walid Khadduri, editor of the Middle East Economic Survey, a weekly newsletter. ''There is the war on terrorism, Iraq and Palestine.'' He added: ''In talking to a lot of delegates here, I think they have reached the point, except for the Saudis, that there is nothing more they can do.''
 OPEC lives with the ghost of a disastrous miscalculation in 1998. The global economy looked strong at the time, and OPEC increased its production to meet what it thought would be higher demand. Shortly afterward, the Asian economy crashed, demand sank and oil prices plummeted to as low as $10 a barrel. The cartel's member nations recovered by collaborating more closely than they had in years, and mustering the cooperation of non-OPEC countries like Mexico and Norway, to cut production to bolster prices. 
 Over the last four years, the cartel has tried to keep oil within its so-called price band of $22 to $28 per barrel. But the fear of another price plunge was always a factor, and remains so today, even with high global demand and high prices. The reason is obvious: OPEC members are wholly dependent on oil revenue to run their states and maintain internal social stability. 
 Prices did in fact stay below $30 a barrel for several years. But OPEC, like the rest of the world, got the supply and demand balance wrong last year, largely because it underestimated the robust growth in China and the United States.
 OPEC also fretted about the return of the Iraqi oil exports after the war. The production took longer than predicted to recover, but before the war there was no way of telling how much oil would return and when. And OPEC did not want to produce enough to cause a glut in the market when Iraq did pump more.
 Nor did OPEC immediately become concerned about rising prices. The cartel now believes that Western economies and their consumers can thrive with oil that costs more than $30 a barrel, though they may not like it.
 But when the cost hits $40 a barrel or higher, it could slow down the growth of Western economies, lowering oil demand, or even kick off a global recession. And at this level any jolts to the system can send prices soaring. 
 Since May 1, for example, attacks on oil facilities in Iraq and the murders of foreign workers in Saudi Arabia in two oil hubs, Yanbu and Khobar, have driven prices from about $37 a barrel to $42 last week. 
 The fear among traders is that instability will choke off the flow of oil. Terrorists have yet to strike an oil facility in Saudi Arabia but that remains the greatest worry. Sabotage in Iraq could also remove its badly needed oil from the market. And traders fear that political tensions in Nigeria and Venezuela, two other major producers, could crimp oil supplies. 
 In the wake of the attack in Khobar, OPEC members arrived in Beirut last week putting a determinedly brave face on events. One Saudi official shrugged off questions about the killings by saying, ''What events?''
 But analysts who spoke to members in private said they had been thrown into a panic by the attack and the price surge that followed on Tuesday. Prices fell by Wednesday, when traders realized they had overreacted to the attack. But the feeling of vulnerability lingered with members.
 ''If the market is under the influence of a fear factor, it is not our fault,'' said Abdulla bin Hamid al-Attiya, the Qatari oil minister, who said that worries about political risk have added $8 to $10 to the price of every barrel. ''What happened in Khobar was a disaster. I lost a friend there.''
 In last week's meeting, the cartel agreed to increase its daily quota by 2 million barrels a day, or 8.5 percent, to 25.5 million barrels. The problem is that OPEC members are already overproducing by more than two million barrels a day to cash in on the high price, analysts here said, which means that no new barrels of oil are actually coming to the market.
 In fact, only the United Arab Emirates and especially Saudi Arabia still have some additional capacity. Already, the kingdom has opened its taps. The record-high levels of imports to the United States may be the result of that additional production, which could ease prices somewhat. By the end of last week, prices had declined to $38 a barrel from $42 a barrel on Tuesday. 
 This suggests that OPEC's power, right now, is concentrated, even more than usual, in the hands of Saudi Arabia. Some analysts, like Jamal Qureshi of the Washington consulting firm PFC Energy, argue that political tensions between Saudi Arabia and the United States have made the Saudis less willing now than in the past to protect American consumers. Others, like Lawrence J. Goldstein, president of the Petroleum Industry Research Foundation in New York, contend that the two countries have a symbiotic relationship when it comes to stabilizing the oil market. So far, it appears as if the Saudis are trying to bring prices down.
 But another attack on foreign oil workers in their country could reduce whatever influence Saudi officials have on world prices. Moreover, the Saudis are ''comfortably uncomfortable'' with higher prices, in the realm of the mid-30's, said Mr. Goldstein. That means that consumers should get used to such a reality, too.
 ''The Saudis were never price doves or price hawks,'' Mr. Goldstein said. ''They were pragmatists. Now that the market can support prices with a '3' in front rather than a '2,' say in the mid-to-low 30's range, the Saudis are moving up their sights, too.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Stephen Doyle) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); CARTELS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); FUTURES (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (71%); TERRORISM (67%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (64%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (62%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); International Trade and World Market; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%) Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries

PERSON: Neela Banerjee

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (90%) UNITED STATES (94%); LEBANON (92%); CHINA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); INDONESIA (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); IRAQ (79%) Beirut (Lebanon)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2004



106 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 2; Connecticut Weekly Desk; COMMUTER'S JOURNAL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: 20 Hands of Bridge (and That's Just on the Ride In)

BYLINE: By JACK KADDEN. 
Jack Kadden is an editor at The Times. His e-mail address is kadden@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
WHEN Gene Girden and his friends play bridge, they don't shuffle the cards. They don't want to waste the time.
 ''The principle of playing bridge on the train is not whether you win or lose,'' Mr. Girden said, ''but whether you can get one more hand in before you reach the station.'' 
 ''It's kind of like the 24-second rule in basketball,'' said John Cook of Stamford and one of the regulars in Mr. Girden's group.
 On a typical ride from Springdale to Manhattan, they will play 20 hands. Often, they're still finishing a hand long after the train has pulled into Grand Central.
 For Mr. Girden, 73, a lawyer from North Stamford, bridge is a passion. He has been commuting for 46 years, he said, and in that time not more than one day has passed without a game.
 Mr. Girden buys his playing cards in bulk at Costco, where he can get a dozen decks for $10. He is the scorekeeper for the group, and he is also the unofficial manager, making sure there are enough players every day.
 ''My philosophy about it is, hey, you can look at the two-and-a-half hours you spend every day on the train as a minus,'' Mr. Girden said. ''But if you look at another way, its quiet time, it's a plus.''
 His fellow players on the 7:09 a.m. train out of New Canaan share his enthusiasm.
 ''When I first started riding the train, I was far too serious to spend the time playing a game,'' said Tim Benthall, a native of London who has been commuting from Springdale for 33 years. ''But I eventually decided that if I were to survive, I'd have to find something to while away the time.''
 He said his family could vouch for the benefits. ''When I started playing in the game,'' he said, ''my mood when I got home improved considerably.''
 Still, unlike his fellow players, he indulges in a bit of multi-tasking. As Mr. Girden put it, ''Tim is a double-threat because he also reads The Economist while he plays.''
 Mr. Girden and his companions are one of the last vestiges of a great commuting tradition.
 ''When I started 46 years ago, there were four games in the same car,'' Mr. Girden said. ''Now we're lucky to get one. We're always on the lookout for new recruits.''
 As recently as 10 years ago it was hard to get into a game, Mr. Cook said. ''Somebody had to die or retire,'' he said. ''We had principles and alternates.'' 
 Of course, that was before laptops, cellphones and Walkmans provided a new universe of distractions for commuters.
 The games have always been male-dominated, though Mr. Girden insisted women are welcome. ''We're equal-opportunity bridge players,'' he said. ''It's just that in the old days, all the commuters were men.''
 Back then, conductors would provide a deck of cards and a board to play on for 25 cents per person. Today, the bridge players take down advertisements to use as their table, and they write down the scores on the back.
 ''But we always put them back up,'' Mr. Girden said. ''Sometimes when I take one down, I see my scoring on the back.''
 I'm not a bridge player myself, but when I rode with Mr. Girden and his friends, I was impressed by their easy camaraderie, their enthusiasm, and their single-mindedness.
 The games proceeded almost silently. Fierce concentration was evident on each player's face, and even though the stakes are only a tenth of a penny a point, they counted out the change carefully as they settled up at the end of the trip.
 Mr. Girden said that over five decades, ''I'm probably up a couple of hundred dollars.''
 But Bill Harding of Wilton, who has been in the game for 25 years, said with a laugh, ''We might say Gene has been contributing back his winnings over the last few years.''
 The same group assembles for the ride home on the 5:26 p.m. train to New Canaan. The rule is that no hand can be dealt after they pass the Glenbrook station, 17 minutes from the end of the line in New Canaan.
 The game is often the highlight of their day, the players said, and Mr. Cook admitted, ''It would take a bit of an adjustment to ride without the game.''
 Mr. Girden said he has no intention of doing without his daily fix. ''Sometimes I take Friday off,'' he said, ''but if I know we'll have four players, I'll come in for half a day'' just to play. He added that he has no plans to retire.
 ''Not as long as there's a bridge game,'' he said. ''If this ends I might reconsider.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Stuart Goldenberg)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAINS (91%); CARD GAMES (90%); BASKETBALL (71%) Railroads; Commuting; Bridge (Card Game)

ORGANIZATION: Metro-North Commuter Railroad Co

PERSON: Jack Kadden

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2004



107 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 6; SundayBusiness; OPENERS: THE COUNT; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 151 words

HEADLINE: D-Day: A Time To Reflect on Ike, Alec and . . . Geneva

BYLINE: By Hubert B. Herring

 BODY:
Given our sad level of historical literacy (what did you say World War II was about?), many Americans may regard D-Day as the day to dash off to see the first destruction-laden blockbuster of summer. Actually, today marks . . . oh, just ask your parents. 
 History and movies are converging again, with the television film ''Ike.'' So this is a good time to ponder occasions when war and film collided to produce greatness -- or blockbusters, at least.
 One can argue that ''Gone With the Wind'' is a war film, but because it hogs the top of so many lists, a stricter definition is in order. And that puts ''The Bridge on the River Kwai,'' starring Alec Guinness, on top. This was another sort of blockbuster for a different time (1957), but its themes echo down the years -- not just bridge-building, but also the ethics and insanity of war, with the Geneva Conventions having a vivid cameo. Hubert B. Herring


GRAPHIC: PhotosChart: ''Top War Movies''Domestic gross receipts, adjusted for inflation, in millionsBRIDGE ON THE RIVER KWAI, '57: $328SERGEANT YORK, '41: 290SAVING PRIVATE RYAN, '98: 278RAMBO: FIRST BLOOD, PART 2, '85: 150(Source by boxofficemojo.com)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WORLD WAR II (92%); FILM (90%); DRAMA FILMS (88%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (71%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (56%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) World War II (1939-45); Motion Pictures 

PERSON: Hubert B Herring

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2004



108 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; SundayBusiness; DataBank; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 204 words

HEADLINE: As Oil Prices Fall, Stocks Head Higher

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
Buoyed by a drop in the price of oil and by a report that showed the economy expanding smartly, the broad stock market rose for the week, although the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index fell slightly.
 The Labor Department said on Friday that the economy added 248,000 jobs in May, a number that struck some stock traders as being just right -- and not enough to cause the Federal Reserve to raise short-term interest rates very much when policy makers meet this month. 
 The markets were also cheered by a 9 percent decline in oil prices from their peak on Tuesday, to $38.49 a barrel in New York by Friday afternoon, as ministers from the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries agreed to raise global oil production. 
 A broad range of stocks rose. Comverse Technologies, which makes voice mail software, gained 8.6 percent, the best weekly performance in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index; the company's first-quarter profit exceeded expectations.
 For the week, the S.&P. 500 rose 1.82 points, or 0.2 percent, to close at 1,122.50. The Dow Jones industrial average gained 54.37 points, or 0.5 percent, to close at 10,242.80. The Nasdaq fell 8.12 points, or 0.4 percent, to close at 1,978.62. JEFF SOMMER


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''STOCKS IN THE NEWS''Note: Graphs are scaled so that percentage changes are comparable.Delta Air LinesNYSE: DALThe airline, along with bondholders and vendors, sought advice in preparing for a possible Chapter 11 bankruptcy-court filing.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $5.76WEEK'S CHANGE: -5.57%EST. '04 P/E: --Labor ReadyNYSE: LRWThe company, which supplies temporary manual labor to businesses, raised its profit and sales forecast. It said revenue and profit margins for April and May were better than it had expected.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $13.76WEEK'S CHANGE: +13.06%EST. '04 P/E: 22.09AutobytelNNM: ABTLThe operator of the car-shopping Web site told analysts that second-quarter earnings were likely to fall short of estimates.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $8.78WEEK'S CHANGE: -15.98%EST. '04 P/E: 37.05BHA Group HoldingsNNM: BHAGThe company, which designs, builds and sells air quality control equipment, is being bought by GE Energy for $260 million.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $37.78WEEK'S CHANGE: +15.93%EST. '04 P/E: 17.93Fairchild SemiconductorNYSE: FCSThe company said it was on track to meet quarterly sales targets, but it warned of volatility in its businesses.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $17.21WEEK'S CHANGE: -12.73%EST. '04 P/E: 16.42FiatNYSE: FIAThe Italian conglomerate named a chief executive, reaffirmed its commitment to its money-losing car unit and said it would speed up a restructuring plan that aims for a return to profit in 2006.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $7.75WEEK'S CHANGE: +9.77%EST. '04 P/E: --Axsys TechnologiesNNM: AXYSThe supplier of optics and other components for the aerospace and military industries increased its revenue and profit forecasts and declared a three-for-two stock split.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $23.22WEEK'S CHANGE: +20.00%EST. '04 P/E: --Cable and WirelessNYSE: CWPThe British telecommunications company reinstated dividends and narrowed its second-half loss. It also said it had sold its 55 percent stake in Monaco Telecom to Vivendi Universal.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $7.23WEEK'S CHANGE: +7.75%EST. '04 P/E: 27.49(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); BONDS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (72%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (68%); INTEREST RATES (56%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%); EXPORT TRADE (54%) Stocks and Bonds

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (56%)

PERSON: Jeff Sommer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2004



109 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1152 words

HEADLINE: Bush Plan for Group of 8 to Hail Democracy in the Middle East Strains Ties With Arab Allies

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 5 

 BODY:
A Bush administration plan for the world's wealthiest nations to declare their support for democracy in the Middle East has strained relations with several important allies in the Arab world. Some of those allies have spurned invitations to attend a summit meeting in Georgia that starts Tuesday.
 Administration officials said that, no matter who attended or decided not to join the meeting of leading industrial nations, the meeting's participants at Sea Island, Ga., would issue a sweeping declaration favoring democratic changes in the Middle East. Indeed, they said the declaration had been improved in recent weeks because of the suggestions of several Arab countries. 
 But many diplomats say the difficulties besetting plans for a Sea Island declaration are a symptom of how the Iraq war has stirred anger in the Arab world. They say that at least for some Arab leaders, the war has discredited rather than helped the Western call for more democracy.
 To placate its critics, the Bush administration has recently added language in the declaration calling for renewed efforts to settle the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Arab leaders earlier said no call for democracy would be taken seriously without such a statement.
 The declaration also plans to take note of existing efforts for change in the Arab and Muslim world, rather than simply calling for changes to be implanted from the outside.
 The Sea Island meeting, one of several intense American diplomatic efforts in June, will have several Arab leaders as guests, a first for such a summit meeting.
 The meeting is sponsored by the Group of 8: the United States, Britain, France, Germany, Italy, Canada, Japan and Russia. The European Union is also represented.
 Among those scheduled to attend a lunch on Wednesday are King Abdullah II of Jordan, Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey, President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan, President Ali Abdallah Salih of Yemen and the newly designated president of Iraq, Ghazi Ajil al-Yawar.
 But the leaders of several close American allies in the region who were invited, or at least sounded out, have decided not to attend. They include the leaders of Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Morocco, Egypt and Pakistan.
 Countries not attending cited logistical and scheduling problems, but informed Arab diplomats and officials involved in the meeting's planning said that, among other factors, they were uncomfortable with the plans for the declaration, which includes proposals on women's rights, electoral issues and press freedoms, literacy programs and the encouragement of nongovernment civic organizations.
 ''The way the summit has been set up, it's going to be an occasion for Americans and others to lecture the Arab world on reform,'' said an Arab diplomat, asking not to be identified. ''Plus, this is not the time to be seen with the American president.''
 In another source of irritation surrounding the summit meeting, the United States declined to invite the leadership of Qatar, on grounds that it had continued to play host to the broadcast network Al Jazeera, which the administration has accused of inciting anti-American violence in Iraq. 
 American, European and Arab officials confirmed that Qatar, a tiny Persian Gulf country, had not been invited because of American complaints about Al Jazeera. Arab countries and Europeans participants have expressed concern. ''It's strange, having a summit declaration on democratic reforms and not inviting a country because it has a free press,'' one diplomat said.
 One heavily debated part of the declaration is a call for the establishment of a twice-yearly forum at which the West and the Arab world would take stock of progress toward democracy.
 Details of how the forum would operate, and whether it would have a staff, are being worked out, with many Arab countries nervous that it would serve as a kind of system for grading their progress in a way that might be offensive.
 As host of the summit meeting, President Bush has the prerogative of setting the agenda. Administration officials first proposed a broad Middle East democracy initiative several months ago, but when a draft leaked to an Arabic newspaper, several Arab nations, some of them close friends of the United States, expressed outrage.
 President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt said he was ''furious'' about the idea of being dictated to by others. Leaders in Jordan and Saudi Arabia echoed his comments. French officials and some others also expressed dismay.
 The administration denounced the leak, said the plan was a work in progress and shifted strategy, encouraging Arab countries to hold their own forums supporting democratic changes and promising that Sea Island would simply declare its support for them.
 Accordingly, an Arab League summit meeting in Tunis last month issued a modest endorsement for change. Similar sessions of governments and civic groups took place in Sana, Yemen, and Alexandria, Egypt.
 ''There are many leaders who are actually very supportive, and who think reforms are long overdue,'' said the administration official. ''Sure, there are others who are much more cautious. But at least now there's a serious recognition of the need for reform and for change.''
 The main vehicle for economic support from Washington is a program called the Middle East Partnership Initiative, an American aid program that has channeled $250 million to democratic initiatives in the region during the last three years.
 The latest version of the Sea Island declaration has not been made public, but Jordan has led a campaign to shape it and persuaded some Arab countries to attend. The draft has fallen short in the eyes of Saudi Arabia, Egypt and other countries, Arab and European officials said.
 Secretary of State Colin L. Powell has repeatedly sought to assure Arab leaders that the Sea Island effort is intended to support backers of reform in the region, not to dictate from on high.
 Mr. Powell, however, will not be at the Sea Island meeting. He will instead attend a meeting of the Organization of American States in Quito, Ecuador. An aide to Mr. Powell said his absence was not intended as a lack of support for the meeting's declaration, but was a simple matter of scheduling conflicts.
 To broaden the initiative, the United States recently decided to drop the name ''Greater Middle East Initiative'' and call it the ''Broader Middle East and North African Initiative,'' yielding to German concerns that the term ''greater'' in German connoted a tone of imperial ambitions.
 ''We've come a long way from February, when this blueprint was presented as purely a U.S. initiative,'' said an Arab diplomat involved in the Sea Island plans. ''Most of the references are to Arab meetings with other Arabs. Our approach should be that we in the Arab world can do these things on our own, but it's better if they are done in partnership.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); POLITICS (75%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); IRAQ WAR (69%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (67%); WOMEN (64%); HUMAN RIGHTS (60%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (60%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (50%) Palestinians; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Politics and Government; Freedom and Human Rights

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (91%); LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (59%) Group of Eight; Arab League

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (52%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (52%)

PERSON: RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN (51%); HAMAD KARZAI (50%) Steven R Weisman; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: GEORGIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (99%); MIDDLE EAST (96%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); ISRAEL (92%); MOROCCO (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); KUWAIT (92%); EGYPT (92%); IRAQ (92%); JAPAN (79%); YEMEN (79%); QATAR (79%); EUROPE (79%); TURKEY (79%); JORDAN (79%); CANADA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (68%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (68%) Middle East; Israel; Saudi Arabia; Kuwait; Morocco; Pakistan; Egypt; Middle East

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2004



110 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 15; Column 1; Women's Health; FITNESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1320 words

HEADLINE: The Medical Spa: Mixing Mud Packs and Stress Tests

BYLINE: By JULIE FLAHERTY

DATELINE: LENOX, Mass. 

 BODY:
TWO guests settle silently into Adirondack chairs on the white veranda of Canyon Ranch's centerpiece mansion here. Another walks the stone labyrinth for meditation, while another follows the walking trails through the trees. Even the Canadian geese that wander the impossibly green lawn seem calm and contemplative. 
 Now take a deep breath of Berkshire mountain air. It's time to head inside for your 10 a.m. cardiac stress test. 
 In fact, before you hit the salon or the eucalyptus inhalation room, you can have enough exams and tests to make an H.M.O. executive woozy: Blood work to check for cardiac risk markers like homocysteine and C-reactive protein. Genomic testing to point out any hidden genetic risks of atherosclerosis, hypertension and coronary artery disease. A hop on the dual energy X-ray absorptiometry scan to check bone density as well as lean body mass and fat distribution. Throw in an optional cardiometabolic test, and you should be ready to hit the showers. 
 After meeting with one of the seven staff doctors and five registered nurses, not to mention nutritionists, behaviorists and exercise physiologists, the guests -- 70 percent of them women -- are sent home with a prescription for a healthier life and motivation to work on bad habits. At least that is the goal of health spas like Canyon Ranch. 
 Some 500 medical spas are among the 9,000 or so spas in the United States, says Eric Light, president of the International Medical Spa Association, and they represent the fastest-growing segment of the industry. While the majority, he says, are cosmetic medical spas, run by dermatologists or plastic surgeons, an increasing number identify themselves as wellness centers.
 Can spas really make you not just feel better, but get better? Driven by demand and economics, the industry is certainly willing to try. Doctors are joining with chiropractors, aestheticians, massage therapists, trainers and holistic healers to offer one-stop healing for the body and spirit, whether for a two-week stay or an afternoon.
 Some doctors question whether the trend is another example of the overtesting of the overanxious found, for instance, in high-priced ''executive physicals.'' Others wonder whether mixing medical science and the holistic practices favored by spas can lead to some unhealthy confusion. 
 But it may be that the most valuable thing medical spas may have to offer is the simple commodity that in medical offices is in ever-shorter supply: time.
 In an era when the average doctor's visit is less than 15 minutes, the minimum time with a Canyon Ranch doctor is 50 minutes. In private practice, Dr. Mark Liponis used to see 25 patients a day. Now, as Canyon Ranch's corporate medical director, he sees a maximum of 7 or 8. 
 ''Where people used to come just to get a facial and relax and hope they ran into Julia Roberts, now people are coming specifically to address health issues,'' Dr. Liponis said. 
 Even a one-time retreat can make a difference, he said, because his patients are already motivated to make changes. ''You couldn't ask for a better patient on a silver platter,'' he said.
 Some come for the facials but stay for the medicine. Heather Cohen, 27, a radio producer from Long Island, enjoyed Canyon Ranch's massages on several trips, but was reluctant to discuss the arthritis that had plagued her since she was 16.
 ''I didn't really go in for the whole holistic approach,'' Ms. Cohen said. ''I thought it was like hocus-pocus. But my feet were so bad, just trying to lift my foot into the shower in the morning, I would have tears streaming down my face.''
 She met with a Canyon Ranch doctor a year and a half ago. After a battery of tests (including blood, stool and hair analysis), she was told she had 26 food allergies, and put on a strict diet for 12 weeks. The main culprit, it turned out, was an allergy to gluten. She has not taken a pain killer in a year, and says she is 95 percent well.
 At the Cooper Aerobics Center in Dallas, 90 percent of the people who sign up for the wellness program opt for the comprehensive physical. ''You don't have to go to five different doctors, and wait weeks to get all the results,'' said Vicki Dye, marketing director for the program. 
 A complete physical takes on a different meaning at the Kripalu Center for Yoga and Health, in a nearby corner of the Berkshires. There, a medical analysis involves the ancient Indian health science of ayurveda, based on the principle of doshas, or life energies, which reflect a person's physical, emotional and mental constitution. During a 50 or 90 minute consultation, Hilary Garivaltis, an ayurvedic practitioner, evaluates a guest's pulses and asks questions about everything from sleeping habits to bowel movements. When she finds imbalances, she might recommend diet changes, herbal supplements or healing massages.
 Madelyn Freundlich, 52, policy director for a child advocacy organization, came to Kripalu four years ago looking for a retreat from stress. Since then, she has come twice a year, most recently for a three-night ''inner peace'' healing retreat that included plenty of yoga, along with treatments like reiki, stone therapy and deep massages.
 ''Their emphasis is on strengthening your yoga practice on the mat,'' she said, ''and then taking it off the mat and applying that more broadly to your life.'' 
 To many baby boomers, the melding of Western medicine, ancient healing arts and modern cosmetic procedures is perfectly acceptable. At the Mandala Med-Spa in Sarasota, Fla., clients can have plastic surgery at the doctor's office and then enjoy a Thai healing ritual, facial or massage at the spa.
 Even a few hospitals are experimenting with offering spa services, like Beyond, a day spa at the Hackensack University Medical Center in New Jersey. 
 The Condell Medical Center in Libertyville, Ill., north of Chicago, conceived of its year-old Inner Spa as a complement to its maternity services.
 While doctors do not provide treatments in the spa, the staff may connect clients to other parts of the hospital. ''If someone is here for a pedicure, but it's obvious they need to be seeing a podiatrist, we might set that up,'' said Patricia Keegan, the medical center's executive vice president.
 Spa work may pose new ethical challenges for doctors, said Miriam Cotler, director of the Center for Health Ethics and Policy at California State University, Northridge. If a doctor prescribes Lipitor for high cholesterol while suggesting an ayurvedic facial, the patient may take both as doctor's orders. Some treatments may be medical necessity, she said, others may be options, but ''the patient doesn't really know which is which.''
 A separate question, she said, is, ''If this is really beneficial, then should poor people be able to have access to it?'' 
 At Canyon Ranch, the women's comprehensive health evaluation costs $2,665, not including room and board. Most wellness centers do not accept insurance but will provide receipts for guests to seek reimbursement from their insurance companies.
 If you can afford it, a comprehensive medical workup with a few extra tests can't hurt, right? Not necessarily, said Dr. Ned Calonge, chairman of the United States Preventive Services Task Force. 
 The task force does not recommend electrocardiograms and stress tests for average-risk people; women in particular are susceptible to a false reading of ischemia (a condition in which blood flow to the heart is restricted). False-positive results in some tests can lead to more invasive measures like biopsies, which carry their own risks. 
 Tests like the electron beam tomogram, which checks for calcification in the arteries, and the measure of homocysteine and C-reactive protein, or CRP, fall into the category of ''promising but not proven,'' Dr. Calonge said.
 On the other hand, he said, ''If knowing your CRP is high is motivation for you, it's hard to argue with that.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: BE WELL -- At top, a ''serenity'' stone borders a pond near the medical wing of the Canyon Ranch spa in Tucson. Above, Hilary Garivaltis, ayurvedic practictioner, right, with Elizabeth Micisco at the Kripalu Center for Yoga and Health. (Photo by Jodi Hilton for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Chris Richards for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (91%); NUTRITION (90%); MEDITATION (90%); WALKING & JOGGING (90%); COSMETIC SURGERY & TREATMENTS (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (86%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (78%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); HEART DISEASE (76%); HYPERTENSION (76%); MASSAGE SERVICES (76%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (74%); AMINO ACIDS PEPTIDES & PROTEINS (74%); NURSES & NURSING (74%); DIETITIANS & NUTRITIONISTS (72%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (72%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (70%); DERMATOLOGY (69%); CHIROPRACTIC (67%); COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (64%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (55%) Spas; Industry Profiles; Medicine and Health; Diet and Nutrition; Exercise; Women; Special Sections

ORGANIZATION: Canyon Ranch (Lenox, Mass)

PERSON: Julie Flaherty

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (74%) ARIZONA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2004



111 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; FOOD; Pg. 87

LENGTH: 1801 words

HEADLINE: Dough A La Mode

BYLINE: By William Grimes

 BODY:
I recently grabbed a quick bite at Bar Masa, in the new Time Warner Center at Columbus Circle. The bar has a short menu, so ordering was simple. The waiter proposed a plate of assorted sashimi at $85. I accepted. Sea-eel tempura sounded like a nice way to start off, and corn croquettes, in a Japanese restaurant, seemed weird but interesting. My eye wandered to an Asian-style risotto of lobster and black truffles. Irresistible, so why resist? -- although $34 was pushing the upper limit on what was, when you got down to it, a glorified bar menu. The bill for two, with no dessert and no drinks, was about $200. 
 Spending that kind of money on an abbreviated dinner should have elicited at least a twinge of guilt. Two hundred dollars, for the average American struggling to make do in tough times, is no small thing. I did some soul-searching but found that my only regret was not getting a table next door at Masa, where the owner and chef, Masa Takayama, creates menuless meals of five appetizers and a 15-fish main course. The price is $300 per diner. 
 In nearly five years of reviewing restaurants for this newspaper, I spent that much, and sometimes more, on dinner. Invariably, the ensuing review, with its heartfelt evocations of foie gras, caviar, Kobe beef, truffles and Champagne, would provoke outrage in a certain class of reader. The letters, and occasionally the voice-mail messages, all expressed the same sentiment: How could you? In a world where millions of children go hungry, where famine haunts broad swaths of Africa and Asia, where the $200 spent on a bottle of Bordeaux could go far to alleviating a destitute family's misery -- how could you? 
 I wanted to feel guilt. Honestly, I did. But among the many emotions I experienced as a reviewer -- happiness, annoyance, amusement, boredom, bliss, rage -- guilt never figured. I was more likely to get worked up over the price of parking in a garage than I was at the $150 for a splash of 19th-century Madeira or the $50 extra for a sprinkling of white truffles. Parking garages perform a function, but truffles delight the palate, a much higher calling. Unfortunately, in the United States, where even serial killers are considered innocent until proved otherwise, all sorts of harmless pleasures are routinely described as guilty. 
 May I mount a defense? Most arguments against fine dining as frivolous, excessive and somehow morally wrong rest on one of two propositions, both of them false. The first is utilitarian. The food that goes into my mouth comes out of someone else's. In this Malthusian view, the total food supply is seen as a large pie. Rich people push forward to the table and cut big slices for themselves, leaving their poorer fellow citizens to slice the pie thinner and thinner until, in the end, the truly desperate fight over a single cherry. On an international scale, it is greedy Westerners who load up at the expense of everyone else. 
 No one, rationally, believes in the pie-chart model. Food surpluses pose as much a problem as food shortages, and famines, it turns out, usually have political causes that require political solutions. There is food available, but the wrong people, like warlords or autocrats, have wrested control of it. But the pie chart lingers in the collective unconscious, or at least in the minds of readers who write letters to restaurant reviewers. The thought of one man feasting at Alain Ducasse while another eats a bowl of rice is intolerable, an economic crime. 
 There is something amiss in this reasoning. Disparity of incomes and national wealth might or might not be unjust. I'll leave that to others to sort out. But the $500 Manolo Blahnik shoe, the $50,000 car or the $3,000 television set is not, in and of itself, a wrong. And I'm willing to bet that a thorough audit of my impassioned letter writers would turn up one or more of the aforementioned items. For the record, I drove a Honda Civic to many of my dinners, rather than an S.U.V., which means that any potential food guilt should have been prorated by a formula calculating miles per gallon saved. I might also point out that restaurants employ people.
 The second objection to fine dining is moral. It boils down to this: It is all right to enjoy food, but not too much. It is all right to eat out, but not to spend too much money doing it. There are two moral impulses intertwined here, the ancient prohibition against gluttony and the more modern Puritan objection to indulging pleasure for its own sake. Add to this ethical cocktail a twist of American pragmatism, the belief that money not spent usefully is money wasted. And what can be more useless than several hundred dollars applied to a six-course French meal that lasts four hours?
 Feelings on this issue run high. In 1975, Craig Claiborne, The Times's food editor and restaurant critic, bid $300 at a charity auction for the right to eat anywhere in the world, no expense spared, with American Express picking up the bill. His account of the meal appeared on the front page of the newspaper under the headline, ''Just a Quiet Dinner for Two in Paris: 31 Dishes, Nine Wines, a $4,000 Check.'' Angry letters poured in by the thousands. Even the Vatican spoke out, denouncing the meal as ''scandalous.''
 This sort of objection never seems to come up when box seats for the World Series or front-row tickets to a David Bowie concert are involved. Spending vast sums to see the Ring Cycle at the Met is seen as almost noble, like tithing. Art is uplifting. Spending the same amount on food, an object of animal appetite, is somehow degrading. I admit to my own prejudices in this regard. When I hear about fabulously expensive pampering sessions at Manhattan's top spas and salons, something in me recoils. My thoughts turn to Sodom and Gomorrah. I yearn for the cleansing fire of a just but wrathful God. The moment usually passes quickly. Some people see a sheet of seaweed and want to be wrapped in it. I want to see it around a piece of fish. 
 The moral argument falls apart for a couple of reasons. First, most people do not eat at four-star restaurants routinely. A fine meal, for the vast majority of diners, is a special occasion, a splurge. There comes a time, say once every two months, when the usual rules go out the window, all bets are off, price is no object and the gods of mirth and mayhem rule. This impulse is universal. It is the small, irrational motor that drives human beings and separates them from the animals. It's the reason for Las Vegas.
 In the 1930's, when nearly a fifth of England's working class was on the dole, a helpful newspaper ran an article explaining how a family could eat a healthy diet on the approximately 30 shillings a week that the government paid in unemployment benefits. George Orwell analyzed the shopping list and the menus that had been calculated to the last halfpenny and admitted that the writer had done his homework. A family could survive, just barely, on the dole. But only a theoretical family. What the writer failed to take into account, Orwell said, was the need to break routine, to reward oneself with a treat, something ''a little bit 'tasty,''' and hang the cost.
 That's what most people are doing when they eat out, and this is the big fact that my letter writers never considered. On purely rational grounds, human beings would eat only what's necessary to sustain life. Shelter and clothing would limit themselves to keeping out extreme cold or heat. Strictly speaking, anything more would be frivolous. But fallible humans, with their fallen nature, will demand cakes and ale. If given a choice, they'll opt for a cherry on top of the cake too.
 That urge for the little extra, the luxurious touch that separates apple pie from pie a la mode, leads me to the other part of the moral argument against high living. It is not just the rich who indulge themselves when it comes to food. Everyone does. Millionaires may be the exception, but almost anyone can make a millionaire's pie, an old-fashioned dessert I ran across in a small-town cafe in Louisiana several years ago. The pie comes in many variations, but the ruling idea is to throw chopped nuts and fruit into a cloud of whipped cream, which becomes the pie filling. Sometimes the crust is made with crushed cookies and nuts; sometimes with graham crackers. You can use cream cheese to make the pie even richer, a suggestive word in this context. Food is a convenient way for ordinary people to experience extraordinary pleasure, to live it up for a bit. 
 The Donald Trumps of the world can light their Cohibas with hundred-dollar bills. For the rest of us, it's a slice of pie or the molten chocolate cake that is inevitably described on the menu as ''sinful'' or ''decadent.'' Or, in a rare mood, the house cocktail at the World Bar in the Trump World Tower. It is a preposterous drink whose magic ingredient is liquid gold. Like the millionaire's pie, it is a big, fat showoff. It has no redeeming social or nutritional value and therefore enjoys great popularity. Long may it live. 

Millionaire's Pie
18-ounce package cream cheese, softened
1/2 cup sugar, plus 3 tablespoons
Grated zest of 1 lemon
2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
1 cup chopped pecans, lightly toasted
1 cup sweetened flaked coconut
1 cup diced fresh strawberries, plus whole ones for garnish
1 cup diced fresh pineapple or canned pineapple chunks, well drained and diced (do not use crushed pineapple)
1 cup heavy cream
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
19-inch prepared graham-cracker crust.
 1. Beat the cream cheese, 1/2 cup sugar, zest and lemon juice in a large bowl with the mixer at high speed until smooth. Fold in the pecans, coconut, strawberries and pineapple.
 2. Beat the heavy cream, 3 tablespoons sugar and vanilla in a chilled bowl until stiff; fold half the mixture into the cream-cheese mixture. Pour into crust; spread rest of whipped cream on top. Garnish with whole berries. Refrigerate at least 4 hours or overnight.
 Yield: 6 servings.

World Cocktail
1/4 ounce plain vodka
Edible 23-karat gold-leaf sheet (available at baker's supply stores)
1 ounce Remy Martin XO Cognac
1 ounce Pineau des Charentes aperitif wine
1 ounce white grape juice
1 ounce simple syrup (3 parts water to 1 part sugar)
1/2 ounce fresh lemon juice, strained
Dash of Angostura bitters
Veuve Clicquot Champagne, chilled.
 1. Pour vodka in a shallow bowl. Tear off small pieces of the gold leaf with tweezers, avoiding squeezing or folding it (thick pieces will sink). Float the pieces on the vodka. 
 2. Combine the rest of the ingredients (except gold leaf, vodka and Champagne) in an iced metal shaker. Shake vigorously and pour into a trumpet flute, filling 3/4 of the way. Top with Champagne.
 3. Pour in the vodka, letting the gold slide onto the surface.
 Yield: 1 drink with extra.


GRAPHIC: Photo: How could you? Champagne, Cognac, aperitif and gold leaf in the World Cocktail. (Photograph by Henry Leutwyler)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COOKING & ENTERTAINING (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (77%); FAMINE (76%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (74%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); BEEF (66%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (64%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (61%); ETHICS (60%); CHILDREN (50%) Restaurants; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Ethics; Recipes; Cooking and Cookbooks

PERSON: William Grimes

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); ASIA (77%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2004



112 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 1255 words

HEADLINE: Some Stores Cater to Poor But Bill U.S. for Top Prices

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 5 

 BODY:
Federal and state officials are expressing alarm about the proliferation of food stores that cater to low-income people but charge more than other grocery stores, thus driving up the cost of a major federal nutrition program.
 The program, the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants and Children, or W.I.C., helps feed 7.7 million people each month by providing vouchers for infant formula, juice, eggs, milk, cheese, cereal and dried beans. Now a growing number of stores are selling only to W.I.C. families, accepting only W.I.C. vouchers, not cash, for payment.
 About 47 percent of all babies born in the United States each year participate in the program.
 ''The rise in W.I.C.-only stores is a fairly recent phenomenon,'' said Eric M. Bost, under secretary of the Agriculture Department, which runs the program. Analysis of food costs in California and Texas shows that ''W.I.C.-only stores in these states have higher prices, on average, than other authorized retailers,'' Mr. Bost said. 
 The stores have found a niche in the market that Congress did not anticipate. Proprietors said the stores had become popular because they offer convenient locations and superior service.
 Healthy Kids, a ''one-stop W.I.C. shop'' in Virginia Beach, is tucked into a small shopping center, next to a state health clinic that issues W.I.C. vouchers. Every item in the store meets the specification of the program, said a cashier, Tracy Wynne. In supermarkets, she said, the prices may be a little lower but ''it's often a hassle finding the right products and dealing with cashiers.''
 ''I wish they had these stores 10 years ago when I was on W.I.C.,'' Ms. Wynne said.
 The W.I.C. families are not particularly sensitive to shelf prices because their vouchers buy a specific food package, regardless of the amount charged to state agencies, which administer the program with federal money.
 State officials say the prices at W.I.C. specialty stores are typically 10 percent to 20 percent higher than those at supermarkets and other retail grocers.
 Linnea E. Sallack, director of the W.I.C. program in the California Department of Health Services, said: ''We consistently find that prices charged in W.I.C.-only stores are higher, on average, than in other stores. If food prices are high, for whatever reason, it means that our federal grant cannot go as far and cannot serve as many people.''
 Ms. Sallack said California had 659 W.I.C.-only stores, accounting for 16 percent of all stores in the state's program. But they account for more than 37 percent of W.I.C. business in California, she said.
 The increase in the specialty stores coincides with a rise in food prices, which was already squeezing the budget for the program.
 The producer price index for dairy products increased 10.4 percent in April, the biggest monthly rise since July 1946, said Brian C. Catron, an economist at the federal Bureau of Labor Statistics.
 James J. Miller, a dairy economist at the Agriculture Department, said the average farm price for milk reached a record high in May, $20.30 for 100 pounds of raw milk, up from $11 a year earlier.
 Donna T. Seward, director of the W.I.C. program in Virginia, said the prices at some W.I.C. stores ''may be as much as double the prices at Wal-Mart, Food Lion or Kroger.''
 Ms. Seward said that some of the specialty stores bought food at retail supermarkets and resold it, at higher prices, to people in the program. The higher costs are passed on to the federal Treasury, which finances the program with money appropriated by Congress, $4.6 billion this year.
 Congress is considering legislation to limit prices at W.I.C.-only stores, but it does not want to drive them out of the program.
 Senator Tom Harkin of Iowa, the senior Democrat on the Senate Agriculture Committee, said the W.I.C. stores posed ''a growing threat'' to efforts to control the cost of the program.
 Senator Robert F. Bennett, Republican of Utah and chairman of the subcommittee responsible for agriculture appropriations, said, ''It concerns us greatly that many of these vendors charge prices well above other stores.'' 
 In recent weeks, the W.I.C.-only stores have retained a team of lobbyists to press their case on Capitol Hill. The lobbyists include John W. Bode, an assistant secretary of agriculture in the Reagan administration, and Mickey Ibarra, a White House aide to President Bill Clinton. 
 Mr. Bode said the W.I.C.-only stores were ''modestly more expensive than large supermarkets, in part because they have higher product costs and cannot negotiate directly with manufacturers, as major retailers like Wal-Mart and Safeway do.''
 Customers of W.I.C.-only stores say they avoid the possible stigma and embarrassment of using W.I.C. vouchers at a supermarket. Filling out vouchers and separating W.I.C. items from the rest of a customer's order can slow the checkout line in a regular grocery store.
 Latoya R. Varnedoe of Oakland, Calif., a 27-year-old mother of four, said she had had excellent experiences at a W.I.C.-only store. ''It's fabulous,'' said Ms. Varnedoe, a mail carrier. ''It has every item covered by the W.I.C. coupons. At big stores, they may run out of apple juice or grape juice or other items.''
 A study commissioned by the Texas Health Department concluded, ''W.I.C.-only stores tend to be among the most expensive, in Texas and nationally.''
 In California, a similar study found that for the most common food package, which provides milk, eggs and cheese to nearly one million people each month, the specialty stores charged $20.28, or 16 percent more than other stores.
 Arthur W. Burger, executive vice president of Burger, Carroll & Associates, which did the studies, said some specialty stores were ''gouging the government by marking up prices to levels much higher than those charged by mainstream grocery stores.''
 Under federal rules, states set limits on how much they pay for each W.I.C. food item. Those limits must be high enough to ensure that low-income people have access to benefits in isolated rural areas. State officials said that W.I.C.-only stores were more likely to charge the maximum allowable price. Large retailers set prices well below that level so they can attract other customers.
 Douglas A. Greenaway, executive director of the National W.I.C. Association, which represents state and local agencies providing nutrition services, said: ''Normal market forces do not operate in W.I.C.-only stores because they do little if any business with price-sensitive customers. When W.I.C.-only stores charge the government more than other grocers, fewer people can be served.''
 About four million births occur each year in the United States. W.I.C. serves nearly two million infants in the first year of life, plus 5.7 million pregnant women, new mothers and children age 1 to 4. Family income may not exceed 185 percent of the poverty level. For a family of three, the maximum is $28,990 a year.
 Michael A. Amiri, chief executive of Nutricion Fundamental, which runs 32 specialty stores in California, said: ''We are willing to discuss a mechanism for cost control, but it must not discriminate against W.I.C.-only stores. I agree that our prices should be similar to those at grocery stores of similar size in similar locations.''
 To attract customers, the specialty stores sometimes offer free transportation and gifts including baby strollers, bicycles, diapers, pots and pans and baby clothes. Some lawmakers want to ban such incentives, but store owners are resisting.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Stores like this one in Virginia Beach cater to participants in a federal food program. Officials are concerned about prices in some stores. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (93%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); FOOD PRICES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); FAMILY (89%); CHEESE (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); US WOMEN INFANTS & CHILDREN PROGRAM (78%); MATERNAL & CHILD HEALTH PROGRAMS (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); INFANT FORMULA (77%); NUTRITION (77%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (77%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (77%); WOMEN (77%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (71%); ETHICS (69%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (63%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (50%); GRANTS & GIFTS (50%) Food; Women; Children and Youth; Ethics; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Supermarkets; Vouchers; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Food; Diet and Nutrition

PERSON: Robert Pear

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA BEACH, VA, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (91%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2004



113 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: Think Global, Act Local

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
The Wall Street Journal had a front-page story last Wednesday that caught my eye. It was about how the antiglobalization movement seemed to be losing steam, with police not expecting the sort of violent protesters of the late 1990's to show up at the G-8 summit in Sea Island, Ga., this week. If you want to understand why the antiglobalization movement -- which was always a mishmash of groups and ideologies -- has lost its edge, you should study the recent Indian elections. And if the antiglobalizers want to understand how they could again become relevant, they should study those elections as well.
 To everyone's surprise, India's elections ended with the rightist Hindu nationalist B.J.P. alliance being thrown out and replaced by the left-leaning Congress Party alliance. Of course, no sooner did the B.J.P. -- which ran on a platform of taking credit for India's high-tech revolution -- go down than the usual suspects from the antiglobalization movement declared this was a grass-roots rejection of India's globalization strategy. They got it exactly wrong. What Indian voters were saying was not: ''Stop the globalization train, we want to get off.'' It was, ''Slow down the globalization train, and build me a better step-stool, because I want to get on.'' 
 ''Every time an Indian villager watches the community TV and sees an ad for soap or shampoo, what they notice are not the soap and shampoo but the lifestyle of the people using them, the kind of motorbikes they ride, their dress and their homes,'' says Nayan Chanda, the Indian-born editor of the invaluable YaleGlobal online magazine. ''They see a world they want access to. This election was about envy, anger and aspirations. It was a classic case of revolutions happening when things are getting better but not fast enough for many people.'' 
 Indeed, Indian villagers and farmers are just like all other consumers today -- better informed. And they seemed to know, at a gut level, exactly why the B.J.P.'s stress on information technology was not delivering for them. It was because local governments in India have become so eaten away by corruption and mismanagement they cannot deliver for the poor the schools and infrastructure they need to get a fair share of the pie. The Indian masses didn't vote for an antiglobalization strategy, they voted for (among other things) an effective globalization strategy. Sonia Gandhi, the Congress Party leader, seemed to understand this when she chose as prime minister Manmohan Singh, the former Congress finance minister, who first put the Indian economy onto a globalization track in the 1990's. His task now is to make globalization work for more Indians by making government work for more Indians.
 ''Both the Congress and its left allies would be risking India's future if they draw the wrong conclusion from this election,'' said Pratap Bhanu Mehta, an Indian professor of government, writing in The Hindu. ''The revolt against holders of power is not a revolt of the poor against the rich: ordinary people are far less prone to resent other people's success, than intellectuals suppose. It is rather an expression of the fact that the reform of the state has not gone far enough.'' Gurcharan Das, the former head of Procter & Gamble in India, wrote in The Times of India that this election was about better local governance: ''What matters to the rickshawala [scooter driver] is that the cops not take away a sixth of his daily earnings. The farmer wants a clear title to his land without having to bribe the patwari [village accountant]. The sick villager wants the doctor to be there when she visits the primary health center. The housewife doesn't want the water tap to go dry while she is washing.''
 My own recent travels to India have left me convinced that the most important forces combating poverty there today are those activists who are fighting for better local governance. The world doesn't need the antiglobalization movement to go away now -- it just needs for the movement to grow up. It had a lot of energy and a lot of mobilizing capacity. What it lacked was a real agenda for helping the poor. Here's what its agenda should be: Helping the poor by improving governance -- accountability, transparency, education and the rule of law -- at the local level, by using the Internet and other tools to spotlight corruption, mismanagement and tax avoidance. It may not be as sexy as protesting against world leaders on CNN, but it is a lot more important. Ask any Indian villager. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLOBALIZATION (92%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (89%); POLITICS (89%); RIOTS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); CORRUPTION (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (64%); PUBLIC FINANCE (61%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (60%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%) Elections; Politics and Government; International Trade and World Market; Election Issues

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (93%)

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (58%)

PERSON: SONIA GANDHI (55%); MANMOHAN SINGH (55%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (50%) Thomas L Friedman

GEOGRAPHIC: GEORGIA, USA (92%) INDIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%) India

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2004



114 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; SUNDAY MONEY; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1469 words

HEADLINE: The Sweet and the Sour Of 'For Sale by Owner'

BYLINE: By LYNNLEY BROWNING

 BODY:
WE are a do-it-yourself nation. Call it Emersonian self-reliance, bootstrapping individualism or the Home Depot effect, but many Americans would rather take care of the home front themselves, thanks. That applies to selling their houses, too. 
 As home prices have soared across much of the nation, many people of modest incomes have found themselves in half-million-dollar houses -- and have decided to cash in. But because a typical agent's fee is 6 percent, some $30,000 of such a sale goes out the picture window at the closing. It's enough money for a starter BMW, or a year's tuition at many colleges.
 Reaping such a windfall, of course, is hardly automatic. You have to do plenty of homework, not to mention all the agent's legwork. Some sellers lose patience and hire an agent anyway. 
 Still, more Americans are deciding that the potential for rich rewards is worth the headaches. Among the property owners who sold their homes in 2003, some 14 percent -- or one in seven -- bypassed agents, according to the most recent data from the National Association of Realtors, which, naturally, is uneasy about the trend. 
 That is down from the record level of 18 percent, in 1997, but up from 13 percent in 2001. And as rising mortgage rates and a sluggish economy inspire cost-cutting moves, do-it-yourself selling may spread. A proliferation of Web sites devoted to the idea prompted the association to predict last October that ''for sale by owner'' homes could soon account for one sale in four. 
 Ready to try it? Take a deep breath. The first step is to educate yourself, through how-to books or dozens of Web sites, about things like determining your home's value and knowing which legal documents to prepare, where to get them and how to fill them out properly. In addition, you will spend from a couple of hundred dollars to perhaps a few thousand to hire an appraiser, pay a title search company to prepare documents and other forms, and perhaps hire a lawyer to review it all. 
 But no matter how much how-to or professional help you get, showing the property and negotiating the price are still your jobs. 
 The first task can be a nuisance. Basically, it means that you must let any stranger track mud across your carpet and peer into your closets, instead of having an agent screen for serious buyers. The second is a true art -- and one at which experienced agents are usually more skilled.
 But the biggest and most difficult task is finding a buyer, and at a time when 71 percent of prospective homebuyers consult the Internet (versus 2 percent in 1995), yard signs and classified ads may not be enough. That is where new types of Web sites dedicated to do-it-yourself home sellers come in handy.
 Consider the experience of Ellen and Juan Carlos Leon, a young couple with a 4-year-old daughter, Isabel. Ms. Leon is an engineer, and Mr. Leon is a Web site manager. The Leons wanted to sell their two-story colonial-style house in Port Washington, N.Y., so they could rent an apartment in Manhattan and buy a vacation home in the Poconos. An agent's commission would have made a down payment on that second home impossible. So in early March, Mr. Leon paid $199 to ForSaleByOwner.com, a Web site, to advertise the house until it sold. 
 He posted photographs of the house on the Web site. He set a price of $539,000, wrote a detailed description of the property and listed his telephone number at work, at the Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory on Long Island.
 Two weeks later, after receiving dozens of inquiries, the Leons sold the house for $536,000. They paid $5,000 to a lawyer, who worked with the title company and handled the closing, but saved $32,000 in commissions. ''I was shocked,'' Mr. Leon said. 
 If Mr. Leon makes it sound simple, so does Colby Sambrotto, the chief operating officer of ForSaleByOwner.com, based in New York. The company says on its Web site that ''selling a home is not rocket science.'' It says property owners used the site to sell more than 27,000 homes last year. Fees start at $79.95 a month, a sum that lets you post six color photographs and a 3,000-word description. It also lets you track the number of times people look at your page.
 A deluxe package puts your property on a regional multiple listing service -- a way to reach a large number of buyers -- for a one-time fee of $699. 
 Still, plenty of go-it-alone attempts turn sour. 
 In December, Ivan Quijano, 50, a corporate communications consultant, put up for sale his three-story, two-bedroom town house, just blocks from Stanford in Palo Alto, Calif., one of the nation's hottest markets. Mr. Quijano, armed with a Harvard M.B.A. and an A-list of clients, needed the cash to bankroll the start-up of his own consulting firm. 
 He posted a for-sale sign in the window with his asking price -- $889,000 -- and his sister's cellphone number. Then he went on vacation to his native Colombia for three weeks. When he returned, his sister, Claudia Quijano, who lives nearby, had received 25 phone calls -- but mostly from agents who wanted to represent him. 
 ''They were trying to give me all sorts of scary reasons for not doing this on my own,'' Mr. Quijano said. He said an agent warned him that he could be sued later by a buyer if documents were prepared incorrectly. 
 But Mr. Quijano knew that all the standard forms and disclosures were available online or in how-to books: he consulted a publication at the Nolo Web site. He also brushed aside pitches from agents who offered to put his property on multiple listing services. ''I didn't want to waste the money,'' he said.
 BY late January, though, he had shown his town house to only three people and had received no bids. ''I began to think that maybe there was a little bit of the trust factor,'' he said, explaining why buyers appeared skittish. ''Maybe people wanted to do it 'by the book.''' 
 He threw in the towel and hired an agent from Alain Pinel Realtors. The agent recommended an interior paint job and new carpeting and suggested that he rent stylish furniture and sleek appliances from a ''staging company'' -- which, for a fee, spruces up houses to make them more attractive to buyers. Mr. Quijano spent $7,000 to get the place ready.
 By late April, after the agent had held four well-attended open houses, the town house sold for $800,000. Mr. Quijano said he had been happy to pay the agent 6 percent of that: $48,000.
 ''People interested in high-end properties here are used to dealing with a prestigious real estate firm,'' Mr. Quijano concluded.
 About 35 percent of sell-it-yourself homeowners will fail, at first, to find buyers and will resort to paying to have their houses put on Web sites or multiple listing services, said Mr. Sambrotto, of ForSaleByOwner.com. Putting your house on a listing service could cut your savings in half, though, because such services typically require that you pay about 3 percent to any agent who monitors the listing service and finds you a buyer. 
 The most common pitfalls, according to agents and Web sites alike, are pricing your house too high and failing to do enough marketing. Beyond the ''for sale by owner'' sign in the yard and the newspaper ad, they say, it is good to pay a nominal fee for a basic online listing. 
 But Walter Maloney, a spokesman for the National Association of Realtors, said that the sell-it-yourself Web sites' multiple listing services included only tens of thousands of properties, while the association's service, Realtor.com, had more than two million, which is 95 percent of all listings. For that exposure, sell-it-yourself sites can have their houses listed on Realtor.com for a fee and an agreement to pay a commission to the agent representing a buyer who finds your house through that site. Agents also increasingly troll other Web sites for leads. If one finds you a buyer, you'll still be ahead by 3 percent. Oh, well: that's still a semester at college, or a Corolla.

QUICK READ
If you sell your home without an agent, the gains can run to the tens of thousands of dollars -- if it works. Here are some things to keep in mind:

DO your homework on title searches, legal matters and local house prices.

DON'T assume that a handwritten ''for sale'' sign will do. It's better to list your home on a ''for sale by owner'' Web site. Some popular ones are FSBO.com, ForSaleByOwner.com, FSBONetwork.com and SellYourHomeYourself.com.

KNOW your state's disclosure laws for problems like termites and leaky roofs, to avoid being sued later. Some states expect you to reveal ghost tales or crimes linked to the house. Check arello.org for a breakdown of laws in many states.

DON'T overprice and scare away potential buyers.

LEARN to be a good bargainer.

FACE the inconvenience, even the fear, of allowing total strangers to peer into your deepest closets, often on short notice.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Juan Carlos Leon, right, at the Port Washington, N.Y., house he sold without a broker. Orion Duckstein, left, was the buyer. (Photo by Kirk Condyles for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DO IT YOURSELF HOME IMPROVEMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); TUITION FEES (75%); TITLE ABSTRACT & SETTLEMENT SERVICES (75%); TRENDS (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (70%); INTERNET & WWW (69%); INTEREST RATES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (63%); LAWYERS (60%); MORTGAGE RATES (50%) Housing; Brokers and Brokerage Firms; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: HOME DEPOT INC (93%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (55%)

TICKER: HD (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS444120 PAINT & WALLPAPER STORES (93%); NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (93%)

PERSON: Lynnley Browning

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2004



115 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; CITY LORE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1185 words

HEADLINE: A Neighborhood of Their Own

BYLINE: By EDWARD T. O'DONNELL. 
Edward T. O'Donnell is the author of ''Ship Ablaze: The Tragedy of the Steamboat General Slocum,'' published in paperback this month.

 BODY:
ONE century ago this June 15, Philip A. Payton Jr. realized his dream. For four years he had been working hard to place black families in apartments in Harlem, an area recently developed as an upscale, whites-only neighborhood. He had enjoyed some success, but nothing approaching his goal of making it home to the city's growing African-American population. So on that day he established the Afro-American Realty Company with a simple mission: erase the color line in Harlem and make lots of money in the process. 
 In the late 19th century, Harlem was the next big thing in Manhattan real estate. In 1889, Oscar Hammerstein opened an opulent opera house on 125th Street. In 1892, at West 112th Street and Amsterdam Avenue, the Diocese of the Episcopal Church began construction of St. John the Divine, the world's largest Gothic cathedral. And in 1897, Columbia University completed its new campus at 116th Street and Broadway. 
 From West 110th Street north, developers built row upon row of elegant brownstones and well-appointed apartment buildings. ''Great care is taken of the property to preserve its exclusive appearance,'' noted a newspaper ad aimed at the city's white elite, ''and a general air of being well looked after pervades the surroundings.'' While rents in the city's working-class neighborhoods typically ranged from $10 to $18 a month, in upscale Harlem they started at $80. Still, many developers reported long waiting lists of prospective tenants. ''It looks as if everybody will be rushing up here from downtown before long,'' one observer predicted. 
 The development peaked just after 1900, when the city began construction of the subway up Manhattan's west side. With easy access to the downtown business district, who wouldn't want to live in Harlem? Speculators built more housing, and dreamed of the fortunes would soon accrue. 
 By 1904, the boom had turned to bust. Hundreds of new homes stood unsold, and thousands of apartments remained vacant. But for Mr. Payton, it was an opportunity.
 Born in Westfield, Mass., in 1876, a barber by trade, he arrived in the city in 1899 and struggled to earn a living as a barber, handyman and custodian. Eventually, a custodian's job in a real estate firm led him to his calling. He opened an office and scraped together the last of his savings to take out ads in several real estate publications:
 ''COLORED TENEMENTS WANTED/Colored man makes a specialty of managing colored tenements; references; bond./Philip A. Payton, Jr., agent and broker, 67 W. 134th.''
 By 1900, the energetic Mr. Payton had begun to manage several buildings housing African-American tenants, but he still struggled not only to cover his costs but also to remain confident. ''All my friends discouraged me,'' he later remembered. ''All of them told me how I couldn't make it. They tried to convince me that there was no show for a colored man in such a business in New York.''
 His perseverance eventually paid off. Within two years he was managing nearly a dozen properties and had begun to buy his own buildings. By 1904, he was the most prominent black in New York real estate, a friend of Booker T. Washington and others in the black elite. He turned to them for investment in his visionary enterprise -- the Afro-American Realty Company. 
 The city's blacks had never had a neighborhood entirely of their own, typically sharing areas with the very poorest whites and immigrants. In the early 20th century most of Manhattan's black population lived in a crowded district in the West 50's and 60's known as San Juan Hill, coexisting uneasily with the poorer Irish. Housing was run down and overcrowded, and there was frequent violence. The worst occurred in the summer of 1900 after a black man fatally stabbed a white policeman. White mobs, aided in many cases by vengeful policemen, terrorized African-Americans for a week. In the aftermath, many in the black community concluded that it would be best to move. The question was, where? 
 Mr. Payton's answer was Harlem. His real estate company was chartered on June 15, 1904, and capitalized at $500,000 (50,000 shares sold at $10 each). As Mr. Payton made clear in one of his ads, it would pursue the twin goals of profit and justice: ''The books of the Afro-American Realty Co. are now open for stock subscription. Today is the time to buy, if you want to be numbered among those of the race who are doing something toward trying to solve the so-called 'Race Problem.''' 
 Some whites fiercely opposed Mr. Payton's plan, and he had to rely on his wits to achieve his ends. One time, the Afro-American Realty Company sold three buildings on West 135th Street to the Hudson Realty Company. The white-owned company promptly evicted the black tenants and filled the buildings with whites. Mr. Payton retaliated by buying two adjacent properties and evicting the white tenants in favor of blacks. 
 BEFORE long the Hudson company gave up its re-colonization effort and resold the original three buildings back to Mr. Payton at a big loss. ''The fight I am making,'' he said after the incident, ''has got to be made sooner or later and I see no better time than now.''
 The incident boosted Mr. Payton's reputation and drew more investors to his company. Soon its assets exceeded $1 million, with annual rent receipts of $114,000. But the Afro-American Realty Company soon fell victim to Mr. Payton's overeager buying and the same problem that faced white landlords -- empty buildings. As the company faltered, stockholders grumbled about Mr. Payton's management, and what was left of the enterprise died in the 1907-08 recession. 
 By then, the die had been cast. Harlem was well on its way to becoming the world's largest black enclave outside of Africa. Some white property owners resisted, forming block associations and requiring buyers of their houses to sell only to whites, but they were fighting superior numbers. ''Although organizations to prevent the settling of colored citizens in certain sections of Harlem mushroom overnight,'' one black newspaper noted with glee, ''the colored invasion goes merrily along.'' 
 Before long the black elite had moved there, bringing with them their institutions, like St. Philips Episcopal Church (1910) and the Harlem YMCA (1913). By then, 50,000 African-Americans called Harlem home.
 Mr. Payton's Harlem, a product of both African-American ambition and white racism in the form of segregation, reached its peak of promise in the 1920's. By that time, Harlem had been transformed from a residential haven to a place of cultural ferment, as African-American artists, writers and musicians flocked there and produced what came to be known as the Harlem Renaissance. 
 Mr. Payton never lived to see that historic moment. He continued to work in real estate after his company failed, but he suffered from poor health and died in 1917 at age 41. 
 Even before his death, however, people had begun to refer to Harlem as the ''Capital of Black America.'' And so, although few remember his legacy, Mr. Payton doubtless was aware of the great shift that his real estate efforts began. 


GRAPHIC: Photos: Central Harlem looks a little the way it did in the late 19th century, when it was the next big thing in Manhattan real estate. Philip A. Payton Jr. capitalized on it. (Photos by Graham Morrison
 inset, Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (74%); RELIGION (73%); PRINT ADVERTISING (71%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (66%) Blacks

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%) Afro-American Realty Co

PERSON: Philip a Jr Payton; Edward T O'donnell

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City; Harlem (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2004



116 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 2500 words

HEADLINE: Throwing Away The Key

BYLINE: By Mark Costello. 
Mark Costello is a former prosecutor and the author of the novel ''Big If.''

 BODY:
Nine years as a prosecutor taught me this: given time, people will get used to anything. A criminal proceeding can drag out for a year over dozens of appearances in court. Very quickly everyone involved grows strangely comfortable. The defendant will get used to being the defendant. He'll nod at the D.A. and say hello. He'll rise before the bailiff says to rise. He'll know which jailer (usually the sergeant) holds the keys to the cuffs. As the sergeant comes across the courtroom in the morning, the defendant will know why and, barely pausing in his chitchat with his lawyer, lift his hands together in the gesture of a begging dog. When outsiders attend trials, hoping for a glimpse of something true, they peek at the defendant and are often disappointed with the picture of a man who is totally relaxed, in fact a little bored with his own defendantness.
 A better way to see the truth inside a prosecution is to be there at arraignments, post-arrest, when the thing is fresh. The judge speaks in a monotone: State your full name. . . . Sir/Ma'am, you are charged with a violation of. . . . Bail is set. Next. 
 When I was a young prosecutor, New York County ran arraignments deep into the night: burglars and prostitutes, token-sucking teens, druggies and gang members, a River Styx of disconnected rituals, oddly like a wedding chapel in Las Vegas. White-collar defendants were as rare as meteors in night court. They could be spotted long before the judge read the charges. The crooked lawyers, the triple-dipping city clerks, always looked rumpled in their suits and ties, slow-moving and bewildered, as if the lights in arraignments were too bright. (They weren't; they were bus-depot dim.) These defendants looked, in short, like people shaken out of a deep sleep and a happy dream.
 Fraud is the happiest of dreams. It's a happy dream to say that I'll pad my expense account because the lousy office owes me anyway for all the gas mileage I've never been reimbursed for, and everybody does it, and nobody gets caught. One transaction breeds a practice of transactions and soon, with the helplessness of dreaming, you've embezzled a quarter-million dollars.
 We've seen a lot of such helpless dreaming these days as one corporate scandal after another unfolds. When I left the D.A.'s office for the U.S. Attorney's office in New Jersey, I noticed a strange thing about business, crime and money. We like to think of fraud as stealing by deception, as taking without earning, as the opposite of true commercial virtue. But in the late 90's, as the market soared, the line between tough-minded business acumen on the one hand and lunatic, hubristic overreaching on the other seemed to be quite thin. Who's to say that some goal -- some ambition or idea -- is impossible, too gossamer and risky and, finally, too dreamlike? The fantastic was occurring all the time. 
 Ponder, for example, the improbable career of a former lowly Conoco salesman named Chuck Watson. In the mid-1980's, Watson helped create a company to trade in gas and power contracts. Watson's company -- driven, dynamic, energetic -- would be run by salesmen who, being equally dynamic, driven and energetic, were never really fond of the company's nondriven, nonenergetic name, which was U.S. Natural Gas Clearinghouse. In 1998, Watson changed the name to a perfect Joycean sound word of corporate neologism. Goodbye, Natural Gas Clearinghouse. Hello . . . Dynegy.
 It might seem a bit silly, this love of faddish buzz and inch-deep management cliche -- except for one thing. By the year he changed the name, Chuck Watson had built Dynegy into a multi-billion-dollar corporation. 
 Dynegy's slogan was ''We believe in people.'' Many people working there idolized Chuck Watson and his downright dynegistic saga. One fellow in particular, a pudgy middle manager, had an especially inspiring biography. Born in Korea to a Korean mother and a G.I. father who abandoned the family, the young man came to Texas as a child. He lived in a shack in the wash of an often-flooded gully. At school, the other children beat him and made fun of him. But the lad was bright and resolute, and this is America, where every dream is possible. He went to college on full scholarship. He became a lawyer and a C.P.A. He married, had a child, and at the age of 36 enjoyed the corporate plumage of a throat-clearing title: senior director, Tax Planning and International. 
 His name is Jamie Olis. Two months ago, he was sentenced to 292 months (let's call it 25 years), one of the longest prison terms for fraud conspiracy in U.S. history. 
If an arraignment is one place to see the truth about a prosecution, a second place would be the other end of the great and ceremonial intestine of the courts -- namely, sentencing. Sentencing is where the state can make a statement. We like to think the statement is about right and wrong, the certain bedrock of our values. This would be resonant and satisfying, a good end to the movie. But sentencing, in fact and practice, is a thing of fault lines, feeling versus theory, science against sympathy. We don't often get what we want from the drama of a sentencing, because we don't always know what it is that we want. More pain in punishment, like the record whack received by Jamie Olis, and those who'll follow Olis, will only put more pressure on these fault lines.
 We are well into a season of C.E.O.'s on trial: Martha Stewart, L. Dennis Kozlowski of Tyco International, Richard Scrushy of HealthSouth, Bernard Ebbers of WorldCom, among many others. The biggest showdown of them all will probably come later this year, the United States against Jeffrey Skilling, the former chief executive of Enron. In legal circles, the Olis prosecution has been viewed as a dress rehearsal for the Skilling case. There are many parallels. In the late 90's, Dynegy was Burger King to Enron's McDonald's. As the recession deepened in 2001, both embarked on a nifty bit of fiscal inflation.
 Dynegy's version of the Enronesque refinancing was known as Project Alpha. There is more than a whiff of office bathos in the details of the lame affair. We have the specter of executives agreeing to construct a major fraud and, being good corporate chipmunks, keeping a detailed record of their crime. Jamie Olis joined the chorus. ''Probably already know this,'' he e-mailed his boss, ''but huge issue to us so I'll nag. It is very important that we keep structure charts and other written information to an absolute minimum on this deal. Therefore, please do not forward the attached manual in its entirety to anyone else. . . . Finally, the charts should never, never, never go to anyone.'' 
 O.K., O.K., we get it -- it's a fraud. Never, never, never tell anyone (cc: Mary).
 Eventually, of course, the charts would go to everyone, reporters and shareholders, the S.E.C. and the F.B.I. Chuck Watson resigned. Three members of the Alpha team were indicted. Two were offered deals and could receive up to five years in prison. Only Jamie Olis went to trial. 
 ''I take no pleasure in sentencing you to 292 months,'' the judge told Jamie Olis, ''but my job is to follow the law. Sometimes good people commit bad acts. I hope you will be able to salvage some of your life and some of your family's life.''
I take no pleasure, said the judge. If you were to spend a month hanging out at the courthouse, you would hear this speech, or something very similar, more often than you'd think. I heard it many times, sitting at the state's table, fingering my tie, waiting for a hammer to be dropped on a head across the courtroom. I heard it so many times that I actually began to listen to it, to wonder at its parts and its construction, rather in the way that you only really ''hear'' a Charlie Parker album the 40th time you listen to it.
 I take no pleasure. Why would a judge feel the need to say this? Our culture insists on complete separation of pleasure and pain. We are, therefore, uncomfortable with the idea that Jamie Olis, once convicted, might go for punishment before a judge who smiled in his robes and said: ''Hmm, let me see, what will give me pleasure today? Hot pokers or the rack? A hundred years or mercy?'' This is the Caligulan mentality -- your pain is my prankish pleasure. As the face of the state it is one of our two or three deepest nightmares.
 A key moral credential of punishment, then, is that it give no pleasure to the punisher, that it be carried out with a sort of dutiful remoteness or disinterest. This is surely the tone of most white-collar sentencings. In my time as a fed, I knew only one judge who took pleasure in sentencing. This judge was smart and very hard-working. He said he believed that male prosecutors should wear only white shirts. If you came in with a blue or, God forbid, a patterned shirt, you would be admonished from the bench. He didn't care what defense attorneys or female prosecutors wore in terms of shirts, which some women found a relief and others considered insulting. The fact that the judge had us all thinking about the meaning of shirts, and the rules about shirts, gives you some idea of the unique psychic force field that was the man's courtroom. When the judge rendered a sentence on an embezzling bank executive, you could see him up on the bench, going over the sentencing memo submitted by the defense, reviewing the various grounds for mercy:
 Your Honor, my client has given generously to the Temple Beth Emmanuel. He is a Little League dad. Last month his wife lost a breast to cancer. He has never embezzled before and will never embezzle again. He is sorry, Judge. He is human, Judge. He is ruined, Judge. 
 I could see the judge reading down the paragraphs, his neck cords working. For him, each of these things was an advantage the banker had that a black kid from Newark's Fourth Ward didn't have. These kids were the krill of the system. Twenty years old, two carjacking raps, plus a handgun enhancement at sentencing -- any way you do the math, the judge was obliged by the law to send such kids to jail for, essentially, ever. I don't think this especially bothered him. But Mr. Embezzler, coming in with his wife in her black silk dress, and the sad, sad kids, and the appreciative letters from Little Leaguers, trying, through these things, to worm his way out of a scant year or two at a camp without fences -- this act, this ''worming out,'' this use of white-collar establishmentarianism to humanize and generate the perfume of sympathy, was physically repulsive to the judge. The only way to purge disgust was to blast Mr. Embezzler, to annihilate him in words, dress him down, rub his nose in his crime, then to max Mr. Embezzler under the guidelines (that is, to give him a year and a half, instead of a year), then to blast the defense attorney for having 16 typos in his sentencing memo. Disgust and anger were ebbing now, and with them, the pleasure of release. The judge would then remember to appear evenhanded. He would turn to me and find something in me that repulsed him as well.
 Despite his solid sentences, prosecutors hated being ''wheeled out,'' or assigned, to his courtroom. We much preferred the gentler, more dignified, more scholarly judges. One judge was particularly beloved. He was literally courtly, the very picture of a judge. Born wealthy, this judge had never grubbed for money. Being a rational man, he proceeded cautiously when dealing with any phenomenon that he did not feel he understood. I think that is why this judge was a relatively timid sentencer, afraid to really ram a defendant.
 I once had a securities fraud in front of him, a spectacular debacle involving millions of dollars in fake or inflated real estate projects that indirectly led to the failure of a big insurance company. One particular investigator, an old-school F.B.I. man, spent three years tracing every fax and phone call, every meeting, every letter, every wire transfer to the Caymans, recreating in his mind and on his office wall the great chrysanthemum of paper that is every complex fraud. The agent knew the judge's reputation as a cushy sentencer and said that he would consider it a victory if the defendant received at least three years -- one day in jail for every day the agent had spent in the mental jail of obsession with another person's crime. 
 The defendant was once a successful businessman. But he had been sucked up in a credit crunch and forced to desperate measures, and the whole thing had spiraled, as the dream of fraud will spiral, and now the man was on his way to jail. He'd been able to keep just enough money to pay for several excellent lawyers who had filed a sentencing memo, a plea and a play for sympathy, a portrait of a hateful man's humanity that was, in its way, as complex, as gripping, as twisted, as involved and as fundamentally fictional as anything by Dostoyevsky. There were many letters from bishops and sheriffs and Shriners -- the usual stuff. I wasn't worried. 
 But there was also an entire section in the defense presentation on the man's son, who was about 7. The defendant was a single father. He and the son were unusually close. The child was afflicted with a gruesome disease that required him, the memo claimed, to have his stool tested daily. For the tests to be accurate, they had to be performed immediately. Essentially then, the defense continued, every day the son defecated into his father's waiting, loving hands. Sending the father to prison would force the son to undergo this humiliation with a stranger.
 Being a young man then, I didn't understand that a parent like the judge would find this image of headlong and total parental devotion completely human and persuasive, beyond all argument and words. I turned to the old agent and whispered something about the defense having no shame, dragging the kid into it. But the agent, the father of teenage soccer-playing daughters as I recall, watched the judge, saying nothing. The agent already knew that we wouldn't be getting our three years.
 The agent went back to his office, leaving me with a question: was this justice? This is the bugaboo of right and wrong again. But in truth, sentencing is more often about wrong and wrong, relative crimes and comparative punishments, the sins of Jamie Olis (who got 25 years) versus those of his co-workers (who could get 5 years), the sins of Mr. Embezzler versus those of the kids from Newark. Everyone is equal and should be treated equally, yet everyone's unique, or so we think. 
 As Dickens once said, 'tis a muddle. As we prepare to ratchet up the ''war'' on corporate fraud with new shock-and-awe-type sentences, perhaps we should pause, or go slowly at least. Perhaps we should respect the muddle, the humane confusion underneath the act of punishing all criminals -- the violent and nonviolent alike. Nine years as a prosecutor taught me this: when we use force (here, a jail cell) without the calm of a theory, the result is rarely something we are proud of. 


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Dan Winters for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); BURGLARY (78%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (78%); LAWYERS (78%); BAIL (73%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (71%); ADOLESCENTS (70%); ETHICS (67%); SCANDALS (67%); EMBEZZLEMENT (66%) Executives and Management; Frauds and Swindling; White Collar Crime; Sentences (Criminal); Crime and Criminals; Ethics

PERSON: Mark Costello

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2004



117 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; THE HUNT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1016 words

HEADLINE: A Long Search for a Home Ends at the Beginning

BYLINE: By JOYCE COHEN. 
E-mail: thehunt@nytimes.com

 BODY:
IT was eight years ago that Catherine and Doug Guiley sold their big, beloved Upper West Side apartment so she could take a great job in San Francisco. It was last fall that they prepared to move back so he could take a great job in New York. 
 And it was pure serendipity that -- three months into a tedious hunt for a home, during which they would longingly walk by their old building, reminding the doormen how much they loved it -- they got the call. 
 ''Their'' apartment -- the very same unit -- was for sale. ''I just about fell out of my chair,'' Mr. Guiley said. 
 Later, crossing the threshold for the first time since they had waved goodbye, his wife had tears in her eyes.
 ''This is the first place we ever bought,'' she said. ''I was just thrilled to be in it again. Back then, the interest rate was 10 percent and we borrowed from our parents and used all of our savings. We were in love with it.'' 
 The Guileys, both 41, moved in two weeks ago, just in time to prepare the nursery for their first baby, due later this week.
 The apartment was almost just as they had left it, except for renovations in the kitchen. 
 ''It was an old kitchen that they completely upgraded,'' with new appliances, countertops and cabinets, Mrs. Guiley said. 
 Each came to the city after finishing college 20 years ago, seeking jobs in the retail clothing field. Catherine Cossey was hired as a buyer for Macy's. Doug Guiley was the assistant who came along with the job. 
 As it happened, they lived in rentals a block apart on West 85th Street. She roomed with a cousin; he with a colleague. They kept running into each other on the street. 
 Mr. Guiley left for another job a few months afterward, but ''we kept having dinner,'' he said.
 They married in 1989, living first in his 85th Street rental -- a sixth-floor walkup -- and then moving into a one-bedroom rental on West 96th Street. 
 In 1994, they started looking to buy. Back then, they loved the process. ''Every place you looked was different, and we were not under pressure to find a place,'' Mrs. Guiley said. ''We knew if we looked long and hard, we would find what we wanted.'' 
 They ended up beyond the 96th Street barrier, Mrs. Guiley said. ''We found that the farther north you went, the cheaper it was.'' And they found more than they wanted -- an airy, 2,100-square-foot co-op with three bedrooms. All it needed was paint. 
 The previous occupants, a minister and his wife, ''had pink taste,'' having painted the walls ''that chalky Pepto pink,'' Mrs. Guiley said. 
 They bought it for $360,000 and acquired Gus, a yellow Lab. 
 Two years later, Mrs. Guiley jumped at a job opportunity with a rapidly expanding clothing retailer. The job was in San Francisco. The couple sold their apartment for $620,000. 
 In San Francisco, they bought something typical -- a four-bedroom Victorian house -- and remodeled the inside. Just when they learned a baby was on the way, Mr. Guiley -- also still in the retail clothing field -- got the chance to transfer back to New York at a higher level. 
 He took a month-to-month rental and started the hunt for a permanent place, while his wife stayed on the West Coast. Their objective: a three-bedroom (one room for their frequent guests) in their old neighborhood, for less than $2 million.
 This time, they hated the process. ''Everything at $1.5 million was disgusting,'' Mr. Guiley said. ''Everything at $1.7 million was disgusting.''
 They toured one place that had been unoccupied and untouched for three decades. (It was being used for storage.) They peeked at another that had so much clutter they could barely see the floors. 
 ''One place was beautiful, but it was two bedrooms for $1.8 million, and we didn't want to pay that for two bedrooms,'' Mr. Guiley said. 
 And the beautiful three-bedroom places were out of their range -- $2.5 million or more. 
 ''We were really discouraged,'' Mrs. Guiley said. ''Everything was really expensive and not as good as our old place.'' 
 With the help of Madeleine Dale, a real estate agent at Halstead Property, Mr. Guiley visited nearly 70 places. 
 ''Every place we looked at, the kitchen wasn't big enough, there wasn't enough air, the ceilings were too low,'' Ms. Dale said. ''Nothing could shake this image they had of their old place.''
 Mr. Guiley knew that, too. ''Everything we looked at, we judged it against what we had left,'' he said.
 He often went past their old building and told the doormen, all of whom were still there, of their interest in any vacancies that might arise. 
 One did. It was the couple the Guileys had sold to. They had decided to downsize. 
 Mr. Guiley called his wife in San Francisco. ''You are not going to believe this,'' he said. He ran over with a friend and a digital camera, and sent an e-mail to his wife with a slew of pictures of the apartment. 
 She didn't hesitate. ''What could someone have done to it that would make us not love it?'' she said. ''I said, 'Let's just buy it.' '' 
 The asking price was $1.695 million. The Guileys overbid. ''We didn't want to get into a bidding war,'' Mr. Guiley said. ''In California, you always bid higher than asking price -- that's been going on since we moved there. Based on what we learned, we were willing to pay more to keep it off the market.'' 
 They ended up at $1.86 million with the condition that they be settled in before the baby's due date.
 In the meantime, the San Francisco market had seen increases on the same scale, so they made a handsome profit on their Victorian, which was in Lower Pacific Heights. They sold that house for $1.89 million.
 ''It was such a beautiful home in San Francisco, but I like this apartment better,'' Mrs. Guiley said. ''That was just too much space for us. The ceiling heights were, like, 16 feet. It was not as warm and inviting.''
 Even Gus is settling in now; he's getting his old dog-walking service back. Does he remember the home of his puppyhood? Unclear. The first time he stepped off the elevator, he looked both ways. 
 ''The second time,'' Mrs. Guiley said, ''he turned left on his own and knew exactly where we were going.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photos: Doug and Catherine Guiley, with Gus, settling back into their new home.
Three bedrooms, three bathrooms 215 West 98th Street, New York
Three bedrooms, 2 1/2 bathrooms 173 Riverside Drive, New York
Three bedrooms, three bathrooms 333 Central Park West, New York
Four-bedroom Victorian, 2 1/2 baths1900 Webster Street, San Francisco (Photographs, from top left, by Susan Ragan for The New York Times
John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times
and Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times. Photographs of West 98th Street, Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times.)(pg. 8)
 Two bedrooms, two bathrooms101 West 79th Street (Photo by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (73%); INTEREST RATES (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (50%) Housing; Biographical Information

PERSON: Joyce Cohen; Catherine Guiley; Doug Guiley

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2004



118 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; HOUSING; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1451 words

HEADLINE: Over the Rainbow, a Melting Pot

BYLINE: By KEVIN CAHILLANE

DATELINE: Mountain Lakes 

 BODY:
WHEN the train station was erected in Mountain Lakes almost a century ago, the borough's leaders left a message in stone for future dwellers:
 ''That the Mountain Lakes which you shall know, shall have fulfilled the splendid promise of the Mountain Lakes of 1912; that Mountain Lakes in the maturity of her charms shall give to you the pleasure and the joy she has given us in her youth.''
 If any place in New Jersey has retained a sense of timelessness, it is surely Mountain Lakes, a picture postcard town of about 4,300 tucked into the rolling hills between Interstates 80 and 287 in Morris County. It is a 2.7-square-mile patch where residents still swim the man-made lakes, walk the tree-lined boulevard and live in the original two- and three-story stucco homes much as they did when Woodrow Wilson was president. 
 It is not merely the physical landscape, though, that gives Mountain Lakes its enduring character. It is also a place where the high school has an honor code, the mayor leaves his door unlocked and families still supper at the Mountain Lakes Club. 
 ''It's a community that seems to have stood still in time and values,'' said Dr. John Kazmark, the school superintendent, who left Princeton for Mountain Lakes three years ago. ''It's a wonderful thing.''
 To outsiders, however, the wonder comes with a caveat. Mountain Lakes has also remained one of the more racially segregated communities in the state, with only 16 African-Americans living in the borough, according to the 2000 census. Though 14 percent of the state and nearly 3 percent of the county is black, African-Americans account for less than half of 1 percent of all residents in Mountain Lakes. What's more, the town does not quite roll out the red carpet for new residents -- the million-dollar houses change hands infrequently, and the borough, like a handful of others in the state, does not allow ''For Sale'' signs. 
 But Mountain Lakes is far from the only community that is so uniform, according to a Harvard study released last year. And as statistically insignificant as 16 black residents may seem, it is still 16 more than in 1990, when no blacks lived in the borough. 
 ''It's a difficult issue,'' said Jud Breslin, the former three-term mayor and current councilman who has raised five boys in town with his wife, Wendy. ''We're always looking to increase our diversity. We have to make an effort to get our kids to understand that the world outside Mountain Lakes looks different than the one inside. And in terms of nationality and religion, we're the most diverse we've ever been.'' 
 He is right. Whites now make up just 93 percent of the total population of the borough as compared with about 97.4 percent a decade ago. Mountain Lakes, to be sure, is not the only predominately white town in Morris County, one of the 10 wealthiest counties in the country. It is, however, one with a famously exclusionary reputation. 
 In Dr. Rita Heller's 1998 documentary ''Chanceman's Brothers and Sisters: The Origins of the 20th Century Morris County Black Community,'' Gwendolyn Boyce, who was the daughter of live-in domestics in Mountain Lakes in the 1930's, offered this recollection of life there: ''When I lived in Mountain Lakes, I don't know if it was written but everyone seemed to know that there were no blacks to live there, no Jews to live there, no Catholics to live there. It was a very closed, restricted community.''
 Dr. Heller, an associate professor of history at the County College of Morris, believes that Mountain Lakes was hardly an exception in its degree of segregation. ''Residential diversity is of a very recent vintage in WASP America,'' she said.
 George Wilson, 77, remembers going to school with the black children of servants in Mountain Lakes. Mr. Wilson, who was born and raised in Mountain Lakes but is perhaps best remembered for coaching the high school basketball team to two state titles, says he realized the town was unusual only after he left for several years to play professional baseball.
 ''It wasn't ever discussed,'' he said about the town's uniformity. ''We thought that was the way it was across the world. If something didn't happen in Boonton or Mountain Lakes, you just didn't know about it. It was our own little Shangri-La.'' 
 Mr. Wilson, who now lives in Boonton Township, says the only color that matters in Mountain Lakes today is green. ''Maybe I'm naive, but I think that anyone can live in Mountain Lakes that can afford to live in Mountain Lakes,'' he said. 
 Cost is certainly a factor. Buying a house in Mountain Lakes is not for the faint of pocketbook. The average home in the borough sold for about $800,000 the past year, according to Cindy Grebenstein, a long-time Mountain Lakes real estate agent. There are now 34 houses on the market, and 18 of them dangle a price tag north of $1 million. There is little chance that more housing will be added. More than two decades ago, the state public advocate sued the town and others for exclusionary zoning and failing to provide opportunity for low-income housing, but dropped the case before trial. 
 Price alone does not account for the dearth of diversity. Boonton Township, which sends its children to Mountain Lakes High School, shares a similar socioeconomic backdrop yet has more than three times as many blacks as Mountain Lakes. 
 There is also something of a wild card in the Mountain Lakes real estate market. Because of a ''gentleman's agreement'' between the borough council and local real estate agents, no ''For Sale'' signs are permitted on the ample lawns. (Local officials say this is for aesthetic reasons, but contractors are not held to the same standard, and landscaping, painting and building signs are on conspicuous display.) Many houses, in fact, never even hit the open market.
 While deep pockets may be all that is required to secure a mortgage, it may not ensure a welcome Wagoneer for people of color, says Loreine Ghani. The daughter of Egyptian parents, Ms. Ghani, 34, lived in Mountain Lakes twice before graduating from its high school in 1988. Though she loved the natural beauty and safe haven of the town, she objected to what she calls the ''parochial attitude regarding race and ethnicity.'' She said she endured racial slurs in grammar school and awoke one morning to find an unkind epithet on the garage door.
 Why did the Ghanis choose Mountain Lakes with eyes wide open? ''My parents cared about the reputation of the school system,'' Ms. Ghani said. 
 While Wildwood Elementary School and Briarcliff Middle School are held in high esteem, it is the high school that seduces. Last year, the average combined College Board score was a combined 1174, compared with the state average of 1018, with 97 percent of the graduating class attending college. 
 Yet the high school is experiencing its own brand of turmoil. In May 2001, Mountain Lakes filed a petition with the education commissioner to sever its relationship with Boonton Township, whose students account for almost 40 percent of the student body, citing concern over the school's growing size. Boonton Township filed a counter motion, and for now, state officials have ordered the two boards and their lawyers to resolve the dispute themselves. 
 Though the two towns are virtual mirror images of each other, Boonton Township does seem to offer the high school an added dollop of diversity. 
 ''I really like having Boonton Township kids,'' said Katie Chambers, a senior bound for Middlebury College in the fall. ''It brings people from all different backgrounds and makes the high school better.''
 Perhaps after all these years, Mountain Lakes is better described as set in its ways than somehow rooted in the past. With a median household income of about $140,000 a year and the accessories that accompany such good fortune, Mountain Lakes residents are not churning their own butter. Either by inertia or design, the borough remains exclusive, if only economically.
 Peter Holmberg, 36, a marketing executive and avid marathon runner, is not an atypical Laker. He was raised in Mountain Lakes, saw Kathleen Davis across a crowded school cafeteria and imagined a life beyond the small town together. Four children later, they live in the Village area near the storefronts and offices that comprise ''downtown.'' Though he feels a certain challenge raising children amid an idyllic backdrop of wealth and consumption, he is also surprised and delighted to be living among family, in-laws, friends and the children of his childhood friends. He likens it to a great song that never gets old.
 ''There are meaningful connections here,'' he said. ''I love and appreciate Mountain Lakes for what it is and what it is not.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The average price of a home in Mountain Lakes, above, was $800,000 last year. The community's demographics have shifted little since 1911, when residents attended a picnic, left. (Photo by Tom Madden for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOUNTAINS (90%); LAKES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (86%); TRENDS (68%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (67%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (67%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (67%); CENSUS (51%); RESEARCH REPORTS (50%) Geographic Profiles; Social Conditions and Trends; Blacks

PERSON: Kevin Cahillane

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Mountain Lakes (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2004



119 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 4; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2385 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey Public TV, Small but Ambitious

BYLINE: By ROBERT STRAUSS

DATELINE: TRENTON 

 BODY:
IN New York, the newscasts offered by the network affiliates were all about Friday night traffic snarls and local homicides of various sorts. About 100 miles to the south, in Philadelphia, the stations warned about an impending cicada infestation and seemingly ubiquitous fires and murders. It was sweeps month, when television stations vie for top ratings and the phrase, ''If it bleeds, it leads,'' is carved on the inside of every anchor's forehead.
 Yet on the New Jersey Network news that night, which reaches more than 100,000 households, the top story was a three-minute update on the uproar surrounding the proposed legislation to limit development in the Highlands. And on this Friday night in May -- a week before the Memorial Day weekend -- there was a long segment on ocean safety. While there was, indeed, a report on the murder trial of Jayson Williams, it did not include the histrionics and near-shouting that the reporters on the other networks felt obliged to resort to.
 ''With commercial TV going in the direction it has been going -- pretty earnestly, particularly at the local level -- it makes us easier to distinguish from the crowd,'' said William Jobes, NJN's director of news and public affairs. ''What you see there is traffic, weather and overnight crime. That is the field they have chosen to play on. We have chosen to play on an issues-centric journalism.'' 
 The news operation is the centerpiece of New Jersey Network -- the public television network whose reach spans the entire state -- praised by many and even grudgingly tolerated by critics who say coverage tends to be dull and leans toward the political. With 30 full-time staff members dedicated to gathering news, NJN says it has the largest such operation of any public television station in the country. 
 ''You could consider us the only full-service statewide news operation on public television,'' Mr. Jobes said. ''Other states have newsmagazines, so you could count them, but ours is the only regularly scheduled nightly newscast.''
 Yet even as distinguishable and distinguished as it is, the question is whether this is enough on which to base a network with an annual budget of $17.6 million -- rather small when compared with that of WHYY in Philadelphia, which is $27 million, or WNET in New York, whose budget is a whopping $180 million. In the increasingly crowded broadcast and cable television landscape, is a statewide public network necessary for New Jersey? With highly competent, and larger public broadcasting services in New York and Philadelphia reaching into all corners of the state, and quality documentaries showing up on many cable networks, does the blueprint designed for New Jersey Network three decades ago matter anymore?
 ''There is certainly more competition for all eyes,'' Gabriella Morris, board chairwoman of NJN and president of the Prudential Foundation in Newark, said in a recent interview. ''There are more things on the air. And people are more distracted and harder to reach than ever. But we strongly believe in public television. And in New Jersey in particular, it is a voice we don't have in the major markets that surround us. It gives us a connection to the community that mainstream TV just doesn't have.''
 New Jersey Network went on the air on April 5, 1971, three years after the State Legislature established the New Jersey Public Broadcasting Authority and voters approved a $7.5 million bond to build broadcast facilities and transmission towers around the state. (Though WNET, New York City's public television station, was technically licensed to operate in Newark and include some coverage of New Jersey when it was established in 1961, it has long broadcast primarily out of Manhattan -- though as a sop to the Garden State it reruns NJN's half-hour newscast at 5:30 every night.)
 Year after year, NJN would go to the State Legislature with hat in hand, begging for money to keep operating. Television -- even on a public level with moderate salaries -- is expensive to produce, and in the late 1980's and early 90's the state was contributing two-thirds of the network's budget. But then a recession came, along with persistent tax challenges by voters and precipitously declining ratings prompted by a boom in cable TV, leading some legislators to mutter about dropping the state subsidy for the network.
 With that scare, NJN executives and legislators got together and created the NJN Foundation for Public Broadcasting, which now raises as much as $8 million a year from individuals and foundations, to supplement the $7 million state subsidy as well as other revenue from subscriptions, donations and the sale of promotional items.
 ''We would like to move it as much as we can toward not needing state support,'' said State Senator Diane Allen, a Republican from Burlington County. ''In many respects, it would free the network, and we want to see it flourish.''
 Senator Allen has an unusual perspective on such things. As a young television reporter, she worked for NJN in the 1970's. Today Ms. Allen, a long-time legislator, is one of the network's more energetic advocates, both for its newscasts and other programming.
 ''My sense was in the beginning, it was more of a routine public broadcasting station, with less of a state orientation,'' she said. ''Having said that, it is doing a better job now, and doing it for the people of a state that has no other real broadcast outlet.
 ''It is fortunate for people in the state, when other broadcast stations have cut back so much on political news, that NJN exists,'' she continued. ''And it still does its service by having other state programming and its educational shows and all of the children's shows you expect from a public broadcasting station.''
 Still, even its signature program -- the evening newscast -- gets relatively scrawny ratings numbers. The average daily viewership of ''NJN News'' is about 107,000 of the state's three million households. By comparison, the newscasts of network affiliates in Philadelphia get about three times that many, and the New York affiliates attract five times as many viewers. 
 Still, legislative support for NJN is robust today; some lawmakers go so far as to say that the network's presence is vital to the state. Even critics concede that it provides the one televised newscast they can appear on and reach every voter in the state. And as any candidate for statewide office can attest to, that free exposure is invaluable. 
 ''From my perspective, I see a great deal more coverage of the governor than I'd like,'' said the Senate minority leader, Leonard Lance, a Democrat from Flemington.
 Yet even Mr. Lance, a harsh critic of Governor McGreevey who is himself contemplating a gubernatorial challenge, was quick to add: ''But Trenton is probably the last state capitol whose coverage is dominated by the print media. Even in Des Moines, the network affiliates dominate. To the extent that it offers an alternative, I want to see NJN thrive here.''
 And since the network has been making strides toward obtaining more and more of its own financing through the NJN Foundation, Senator Allen said, it has been enjoying greater bipartisan support.
 ''I know of no move to eliminate it, no one who doesn't support its goals,'' she said. ''They have capable leadership, and I can't imagine anyone wanting to see the network go away.''
 Since June 1994, that leadership has been headed by Elizabeth Christopherson, the network's sixth executive director, who had been a vice president of Bloomfield College and chairwoman of the New Jersey State Council on the Arts.
 Ms. Christopherson -- a commanding presence who makes laser-like eye contact with people -- has been pushing the network into as many paths as possible, particularly as the technology has advanced.
 Indeed, NJN was one of the first public broadcast entities to convert to digital signals, giving the network the ability to appear on the Internet as well as the airwaves and allowing it to offer services in an effort to make it indispensable to New Jersey residents. 
 For instance, the program ''NJ Works'' offers online job help and training for those looking for employment in the state. And the network's four television transmitters and other digital equipment are being used by local, state and federal governments as part of the homeland-security warning system, linking law enforcement agencies. In addition, there are online and over-the-air educational offerings. As broadband becomes more popular in homes, the network says, it will offer multiple channels, much the way HBO does for cable subscribers.
 ''We have had a history in recent years of being involved in strategic planning for the future, and we view it as our mandate to offer as much as we can in the way of local and statewide services,'' said Ms. Christopherson, a 1971 Wellesley graduate who also serves on the national Public Broadcasting Service board.
 Many of the employees could earn more money at commercial broadcast outlets -- even Ms. Christopherson makes only $116,000 a year, which is a half to a third of what the heads of stations in major markets earn. Yet many seem to stay at NJN for a lifetime.
 Janice Selinger, a producer who has won several Emmy Awards since coming to NJN, left WCBS-TV 24 years ago. And the primary news anchor, Kent Manahan, has been in her chair since 1975. Michael Aron, a former editor of New Jersey Monthly magazine, joined the network in 1982 to report on politics and has since been the host of several newsmagazine shows. And John Wynne, a member of the camera crew, started working at NJN in 1980, when it was operating out of a ramshackle building on the outskirts of the city and a decade before it moved to modern quarters in downtown Trenton, where its huge rooftop satellite dishes compete with the gold State House dome for a place in the capital's modest skyline.
 ''Look, would I want bigger budgets and more money?'' Ms. Selinger said. ''I wouldn't lie, who wouldn't? But I've done work like 'The Race for Open Space' (a documentary about development in New Jersey) with Charlie Gibson as a narrator. It was great, in-depth work that few people do anymore, and I got to use network talent. Even with lesser money, we find the way to do this kind of thing. So people stay and, because of that, we know the landscape.''
 Harvey Fisher, now the editor of New Jersey Lawyer and Ms. Christopherson's predecessor at NJN, says the network does well with the money it has to work with.
 ''Look, it is really expensive to do local programming,'' Mr. Fisher said. ''You couldn't possibly fill your schedule with it, no matter what you would like to do. You will have duplication of some programs in New York and Philadelphia, but that is to be expected.''
 Because of NJN's slimmer budget and smaller viewership, the station often loses out to New York and Philadelphia when it comes to broadcasting the more popular public shows. Frequently, programs like ''Nova'' and ''BBC World News'' are shown first on WHYY in Philadelphia or WNET in New York. If there is one complaint about NJN as a service, it is the duplication of programming, something Ms. Christopherson at once acknowledged but largely dismissed as a function of public television all over the country.
 ''Public television is, in a sense, an alternative service,'' she said. ''I see nothing wrong in something airing in Philadelphia at 8 p.m. and, if you miss it, getting to see it at 10 p.m. on NJN. The affiliates are good about working together like that. We aren't competitive when it comes to getting good programming on the air.''
 For his part, William Marrazzo, the president and chief executive of WHYY-TV and radio, Philadelphia's public broadcasting services, says he and Ms. Christopherson talk regularly about overlapping programming.
 ''Our mandates are the same, to do the best we can in localizing programming,'' Mr. Marrazzo said. ''On a good day, NJN might take the same 'Nova' we do at a different time and package it differently than we would based on a unique relationship that it has in New Jersey that doesn't exist for us, say, in Reading. On a good day, we would both localize it through Web sites and off-air outreach activities that truly add additional value.''
 For example, Mr. Marrazzo has changed the reach of WHYY radio, wiping out almost all of its music programming and going mostly to news, interviews and literary performances. Each weekday morning, the station produces inserts for ''Morning Edition,'' the news program produced by National Public Radio, and a two-hour local interview show, ''Radio Times.'' In addition, the nationally syndicated program ''Fresh Air'' is produced at WHYY.
 Ms. Christopherson says she has set a similar goal for NJN radio, which broadcasts on seven different FM frequencies around the state, from Sussex (88.5) in the north to Cape May Court House (90.3) in the south. With the exception of ''NJN News,'' which is broadcast on television, and infrequent hourlong arts and business shows, all of NJN radio consists of programming that is picked up from other public radio affiliates.
 ''We would love to have an hour news magazine or a talk show, something uniquely New Jersey,'' said Pharoah Cranston, the operations manager of NJN Radio, who oversees the small studio in Trenton. ''But until someone earmarks money for that, we will just have to keep the operation small.''
 The network is already doing that on television. NJN produces eight regular programs, including the Hispanic-oriented ''Images/Imagenes;'' ''On the Record'' with Mr. Aron, a favorite of political junkies around the state; and the Emmy-winning ''State of the Arts,'' a half-hour newsmagazine. All of those programs are underwritten largely by foundations and privates companies that cannot dictate how their donations will be spent. 
 For instance, the New Jersey State Council for the Arts and the Geraldine R. Dodge Foundation finance ''State of the Arts,'' and Public Service Electric and Gas finances ''On the Record.''
 ''I would say that when we go to the community, people are not unwilling to commit to NJN,'' Ms. Christopherson said. ''If we continue to approach them correctly, we will keep our niche of providing local service for an incredibly rich and diverse state.''


CORRECTION-DATE: June 13, 2004

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article last Sunday about the ambitions of the New Jersey Network, the state's PBS television affiliate, misstated the political party of State Senator Leonard Lance, who said he would prefer to see less news about Gov. James E. McGreevey, a Democrat. Mr. Lance is a Republican, not a Democrat. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: NJN produces eight regular programs, including ''Classroom Close-Up, NJ'' with Joyce Powell, left. Her guest is James McCall of the Education Department. (Photo by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
A cameraman, Ed Waters, during the taping of ''Classroom Close-Up, NJ.''
 The New Jersey Network operates out of modern headquarters in downtown Trenton, above. Elizabeth Christopherson, left, is the sixth executive director since the network began broadcasting on April 5, 1971. (Photographs by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)(pg. 8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (94%); MURDER (90%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (90%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (90%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); HOMICIDE (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (89%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (78%); CABLE TELEVISION (77%); JOURNALISM (77%); NEWS REPORTING (72%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (65%); BUDGETS (64%); LEGISLATION (55%) Television; Public Television

ORGANIZATION: New Jersey Network

PERSON: Robert Strauss

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (96%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2004



120 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION/New Jersey; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1113 words

HEADLINE: In Bankruptcy, but Avoiding Foreclosure

BYLINE: By ANTOINETTE MARTIN

 BODY:
FOUR years ago, Alfred and Elizabeth Metta of Brick were forced to file for personal bankruptcy to avoid foreclosure on the four-bedroom home they had bought for $147,000 in 1994.
 For five years they had fought vainly to keep up with their bills after Mr. Metta, a paramedic, was seriously injured on the job and needed rehab, and Mrs. Metta, a nurse, took maternity leave. They filed for Chapter 13 bankruptcy protection, which structured their debt into one big monthly payment, although it did not dissolve it. 
 ''We kept the house,'' Mrs. Metta said. ''That was the key to everything as it turns out.''
 While the Mettas struggled to keep to a court-ordered schedule of payments on their debt, something wonderful and unexpected happened: the value of their home began rising. In a pattern familiar to most people owning homes in New Jersey since the turn of the millennium, an ailing national economy brought the balm of lower interest rates, which helped to fuel home-buying frenzies in numerous communities. Because the demand for homes outstripped the number for sale, the value of virtually all houses rose sharply.
 When the Mettas had their home reappraised in 2001, they found its value had nearly doubled, and the most recent appraisal, in April, put the house's current value at $300,000.
 ''Real estate has really created new-found equity for people -- even the bankrupt,'' observed Brian Riccioni, the founder of the First Hallmark Mortgage Corporation of Somerville. Mr. Riccioni's mortgage company is one of several dozen in the region that provide ''subprime'' mortgage loans for people in positions like that of the Mettas.
 But First Hallmark is unusual in that 50 percent of its business involves such loans, and the company considers them its primary product. The Golden Mortgage Corporation of Bridgewater, by contrast, does about 10 percent of its business in subprime loans, said the chief executive, Ted Ark. ''They are extremely time-consuming,'' he noted, ''because of the complex paperwork.'' 
 Several mortgage companies mentioned that tough ''predatory lending'' statutes in New Jersey make it more difficult to operate in the state's subprime market. Since lenders face relatively high risk in offering subprime loans, they charge borrowers higher interest rates and fees.
 The national chain H & R Block makes subprime loans here, and Champion Mortgage, a division of Key Bank U.S.A., is a major player. Champion does not disclose what percentage of its business is made up of such loans, a spokesman said. 
 Mr. Riccioni set up First Hallmark five years ago while still in his 20's with the support of his father, who owned Sterling Mortgage of Somerville, a conventional mortgage company that has since dissolved.
 ''We set up a streamlined process specifically designed for people who have been in bankruptcy for a year, and who have shown they can make the payments on time,'' he said. 
 ''We can lend as much as 85 and sometimes 90 percent of the value of an owner's home in an effort to reorganize their debt, typically at 2 percent above the going conventional rate,'' Mr. Riccioni said. ''We have been using an adjustable rate loan option while rates have stayed low, in hopes of re-establishing credit so that if the new mortgage is paid on time, the borrower can come back to us after another year and we see if we can further improve the situation.''
 The Mettas had begun efforts to refinance with two other companies before being contacted by First Hallmark, and in each case, Mrs. Metta said, paid for an appraisal and spent a great deal of time gathering paperwork before the companies abruptly stopped answering their calls. 
 First Hallmark actively solicits the business of homeowners who have managed a year of timely payments under Chapter 13, said the company's president, Bruno Viscariello. ''In addition, we created a financial strategy for the borrower to plan for the future,'' he said. 
 For the Mettas, this was a productive approach. Last year, their brokers at First Hallmark -- which makes a profit by bundling a number of such loans and retailing them as investments -- refinanced their debts through an adjustable rate mortgage, with an interest rate fixed at 8.55 percent for the first two years. That cut the Mettas' payment under Chapter 13 by $1,000 a month.
 The brokers told them that if interest rates stayed low, home values kept rising and they kept making payments on time, their credit rating would repair itself and at some point they could refinance again at a conventional rate, the Mettas said.
 Last month, they did so, obtaining a 6.25 percent interest rate and borrowing enough additional money to add on a longed-for family room.
 Another borrower in Chapter 13 protection, Len Irvine of Belvedere, tells a similar story. His wife became disabled with multiple sclerosis as he was trying to open a business. Mr. Irvine created Infotel Communications to provide telecommunications systems to large companies, but then received only half what he had expected in Small Business Administration start-up funds. He quickly found himself facing the loss of his home, not to mention the business.
 After receiving a flier in the mail, he decided to use First Hallmark to refinance his debt. Mr. Irvine closed in mid-May on a $200,000 mortgage on his house -- built in 1983 for $110,000 and currently appraised at $300,000 -- with a 6.95 interest rate, providing him the operating capital he needed to double his business.
 There were 41,730 Chapter 13 personal bankruptcies in New Jersey last year, according to John Tylutki, the chief operating officer at First Hallmark, and 40,940 the year before. He said his firm closes 110 to 120 refinancing loans a month for homeowners in Chapter 13, and he expects business to grow.
 ''The subprime business is a growing business,'' agreed Melissa Cohn of the Manhattan Mortgage Company, which has an office in Freehold, ''because, for one thing, 'A' lenders are now using more restrictive credit guidelines. No-money-down mortgages are still available, but you must have good credit, be able to verify income and meet the bank's liquidity requirement,'' thereby showing that assets are available in an emergency.
 That has increased the flow of borrowers who do not fit the creditworthy profile but have nonetheless benefited from the strong appreciation of their homes and want the benefit of interest rates that, while rising slightly, are still near record lows, Ms. Cohn said.
 ''Frankly, I just don't understand all that stuff,'' Mrs. Metta confessed, but she added, ''What I get is that we are in a way, way better situation than we were three, two and even one year ago.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: CREDIT RATING RESTORED -- Elizabeth and Alfred Metta with Joshua, Danielle and Kimberly. (Photo by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (93%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SUBPRIME LENDING (89%); PREDATORY LENDING (89%); INTEREST RATES (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (86%); MORTGAGE BANKING (86%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); US CHAPTER 13 BANKRUPTCY (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (75%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (72%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (72%); PARAMEDICS (72%); MATERNITY LEAVE (71%); FAIR LENDING (69%); OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS & INJURY (57%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Mortgages; Bankruptcies

COMPANY: H & R BLOCK INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: First Hallmark Mortgage Corp

TICKER: HRB (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (51%); SIC7291 TAX RETURN PREPARATION SERVICES (51%)

PERSON: Antoinette Martin; Brian Riccioni

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2004



121 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; TRAVEL ADVISORY: CORRESPONDENT'S REPORT; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: Environmentalists Wary Of Seattle Port's Growth

BYLINE: By SARAH KERSHAW

DATELINE: Seattle 

 BODY:
AS the spring and summer cruise season gets under way, this increasingly cruise-friendly city is the port of call to a record number of large vessels, most of them bound for to Alaska. 
 The 50 percent increase in cruise traffic over the last year thrills Seattle port and tourism officials, but environmentalists are concerned about the effect of waste water and other pollutants from the ships on area waters and marine life. That worry was prompted in part by a major spill in May 2003: 16,000 gallons of sewage sludge from a Norwegian Cruise Line ship, on its first trip from here to Alaska, was dumped -- illegally, according to the state -- into the Strait of Juan de Fuca, near the entrance to Puget Sound, an already environmentally troubled body of water. 
 An estimated 150 ships carrying about 276,000 passengers will call at Seattle from May-to-September, according to Seattle's Convention and Visitors Bureau, up from 99 last year. Only six large cruise ships left for Alaska from Seattle's port in 1999. 
 Several major cruise lines -- Holland America and Princess among them -- have added a second cruise ship this year to make the trip from Seattle to Alaska; the average large cruise ship carries between 3,000 and 5,000 passengers and crew. Seattle has responded by expanding its cruise capacity at the waterfront: In 2000, the Port of Seattle, the public corporation that operates transportation facilities in the area, opened the Bell Street Cruise Terminal at Pier 66 and last year completed a $16 million two-berth facility at Terminal 30. 
 Passengers are enthusiastically embracing the convenience and affordability of setting out from Seattle instead of Vancouver, British Columbia, where most Alaska cruises had embarked until a few years ago. 
 There are relatively few inexpensive direct flights from the eastern United States to Vancouver; as a result, many passengers bound for Alaska had to take ferries or connecting flights to Vancouver. And with the increased speed of the newer cruise ships, the trip from Seattle now takes no longer than it once did from Vancouver, which is over 100 miles closer to Alaskan waters. 
 The cruise business is bringing much-needed money to the Seattle area. While the port has spent more than $50 million to expand its capacity, according to a recent economic study by the Port of Seattle, cruise ships calling at Seattle last year brought $124 million in business revenue, $39 million in payroll and $3.8 million in taxes into the regional economy in 2003. The revenues are expected to increase by 50 percent in 2004, the agency said. 
 After last year's sewage spill by the Norwegian Sun, which the cruise line said was accidental, the Washington State Department of Ecology negotiated a memorandum of understanding with the Port of Seattle and the North West Cruiseship Association, which represents major cruise lines that dock in Seattle. The accord, signed in April, requires that all ships be equipped with advanced sewage treatment systems certified by the Coast Guard before waste water can be discharged into Washington state waters. 
 With those systems in place and the required certification ships can release waste water at speeds of six knots or more and when at least one mile from berth at the Port of Seattle. 
 Discharges of sludge, which unlike waste water contains solid material, are permitted 12 nautical miles or more from shore, but discharges of untreated waste water and sewage treated by older methods can occur only outside state waters.
 State environmental officials said that the agreement would prevent sewage spills like the one last year from the Norwegian liner and that the accord goes much further than current federal maritime law, which allows ships to release conventionally treated waste water anywhere and untreated sludge within three nautical miles from shore. 
 ''The cruise industry has accepted a very high set of treatment standards and reporting standards for their vessels,'' said Larry Altose, an ecology department spokesman. 
 But environmentalists say that the state and the cruise industry have fallen far short of what is necessary to protect Washington state waters and marine life, especially in light of probable increases in cruise ship traffic, and they are leery of a voluntary memorandum of understanding. They say that the state should enact a stringent law with real enforcement teeth. One attempt at passing such a law failed earlier this year in the state legislature. 
 ''The state has taken the cruise industry's word,'' said Fred Felleman, northwest director of Ocean Advocates, a maritime environmental group. ''I think we are setting ourselves up for a bad mistake. ''
 Referring to the memorandum of understanding, Mr. Felleman also asked, ''What's the likelihood that they are going to comply? My confidence is next to zero given their international and local track record.''
 But John Hansen, president of the North West Cruiseship Association, which is based in Vancouver, insisted that the cruise lines would comply with the accord and that ''we are happy to have it.''
 He added that most of the waste-water treatment equipment on ships is far better than shore-based facilities. ''For the most part, they are well beyond the standards required,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Norwegian Sun docked in Seattle in April. (Photo by Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRUISES (92%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (91%); WATER POLLUTION (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); HARBORS & PORTS (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (89%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (78%); FERRIES (78%); MARINE SHIPPING (78%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (76%); WATER QUALITY (73%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (73%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (72%); TOURISM (72%); AIR SERVICE (69%) Ships and Shipping ; Cruises; Water Pollution

COMPANY: NORWEGIAN CRUISE LINE HOLDINGS LTD (57%)

TICKER: NCLH (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (57%); NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (57%)

PERSON: Sarah Kershaw

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (99%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (94%) WASHINGTON, USA (99%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (94%); ALASKA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (99%); CANADA (94%) Seattle (Wash)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2004



122 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 4; Real Estate Desk; STREETSCAPES/131-135 East 66th Street; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1033 words

HEADLINE: It's 3 Blocks From Fifth Avenue, But It's Just Like Fifth Avenue

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER GRAY

 BODY:
THE rich limestone facade at 131-135 East 66th Street, built in 1906 at the northeast corner of Lexington, exudes the confidence of Fifth Avenue apartment houses built for bankers, brokers and lawyers.
 Inside, the early tenants decorated sumptuously -- photographs of one apartment, lived in by the building's architect, Charles A. Platt, reveal couches in tufted velvet, silk wall hangings lining the upper walls, and a beamed ceiling painted in Renaissance style.
 Some idea of the scale of entertaining can be found in a New York Times account of a party in December 1933. Guests at a ''circus party'' arrived as acrobats, animal tamers, trapeze artists and sword swallowers. The apartment was done in circus decor, with a large tent covering its double-height studio space. 
 That month, one tenant, John Woolsey, a federal judge, made his historic decision that James Joyce's ''Ulysses'' was not obscene and could be brought into the United States. Judge Woolsey noted that, regarding the book's many sexual references, ''it must always be remembered that his locale was Celtic and his season spring.'' 
 The building's roots can be traced to just after 1900, when a group of artists began construction on the famous ''studio block'' of West 67th Street just off Central Park West, putting up high-rise structures that combined studios and dwelling spaces. The new buildings were successful beyond the artists' expectations, and in 1905 a syndicate that included the painter Walter Russell, one of the West 67th Street veterans, began work on an East Side version closer to the moneyed class.
 For the site at the northeast corner of 66th and Lexington, Russell's group at first planned a building of light brick. It retained the architects Pollard & Steinam and B. Hustace Simonson, who had worked on many of the West 67th Street studios. Those names appear on the East 66th Street building application. 
 But when the completed building's design was published in many architectural journals in 1908, Platt was the only architect associated with it. Born in 1861 to a patrician, cultured family, Platt studied art in Paris and by the 1890's began designing for neighbors in the summer colony of Cornish, N.H. -- at first gardens, and soon whole houses. 
 Platt had published a book, ''Italian Gardens,'' in 1894. In 1907, he designed the double house built by Sara Delano Roosevelt for herself and her newlywed son and daughter-in-law, Franklin and Eleanor, at 47-49 East 65th Street. 
 Perhaps Platt was brought in by the real estate investor Frederick Culver, who came late to the project; Platt had already designed a house for Culver's wife, Anna. Or perhaps Platt was in on the project at the beginning, but was not considered a ''real'' architect. Either way, he produced a ''real'' building, with a chaste, authoritative English renaissance-style limestone facade, sumptuous in its cool reserve. It was a sharp contrast with the typical New York apartment house encrusted with assembly-line ornament. The new 131-135 East 66th Street was like Le Cirque compared with Nedick's. 
 Writing in The Architectural Record in 1908, the critic Arthur C. David said that ''out of the thousands of apartment houses which have been erected in New York during the past 30 years, probably less than 25 have been designed by really competent architects'' -- and Platt's building was definitely one of these. David praised Platt particularly for eschewing the showy marble lobbies favored by speculative buildings and instead employing a ''strictly economical propriety of treatment.'' 
 Although the architects who filed the plans did not get official credit, they had some influence on the design. The apartment layouts repeat almost exactly the double-height studio plan used on West 67th Street, with single-height rooms on the south face connected to double-height ''studios'' on the north. The north-facing studio windows, many with leaded glass, are visible from the rear courtyard, which is usually left unlocked during the day and is accessible from Lexington Avenue.
 The building was built as a partial co-op, with some units held for rental. Sale prices are not known, but an early advertisement offered some of the 9-to-11-room duplexes at rents of $300 to $350 a month. David described the studio spaces as ''positively exhilarating.'' The building has a nominal twin at 130 East 67th Street, built a year afterward; the architects listed on the building permit are Rossiter & Wright.
 The 1910 census indicates that not all artists led lives of penury. Platt, 48, is listed with his wife, Eleanor, four children and four servants. A portrait painter, Florence Thaw, 46, had three servants: butler, waitress and seamstress. Another tenant was Howard Russell Butler, 54, who gave up his law practice in the 1880's to study under the artist Frederic Church, ran Carnegie Hall and supervised the construction of Andrew Carnegie's mansion at 91st and Fifth, now the Cooper-Hewitt Museum. 
 Today, the building is as discreet as ever. The co-op has resisted the temptation to cut storefronts into the Lexington Avenue frontage, chop out the facade for air-conditioners or rip out the original wooden windows. 
 James Torrey, the co-op's president, says that it is about to embark on a multiyear renovation program, starting with the roof and including the parapets, windows and limestone facade, which is soiled and lusterless. The great two-story columns at the entrance are in their natural state, and offer an idea of the facade's potential majesty.
 But the projecting metal cornice will need substantial work, he says: ''It's become a pigeon hotel.''

Look For
Although the rear courtyard, usually accessible from Lexington Avenue in the daytime, is a typically barren space, look up to the huge, leaded glass windows lighting the double-height studio spaces. The building was designed by Charles A. Platt (photo).

BUILT -- 1906.

ADDRESS -- 131-135 East 66th Street, northeast corner of Lexington Avenue.

HOW TO GET THERE -- By subway, take the No. 6 train to Lexington and 68th. By bus, take the M101, M102 or M103, or the M66 crosstown, to Lexington and 68th, or the M1, M2, M3 or M4 to Madison and 68th.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A FACADE THAT EXUDES CONFIDENCE -- The building at 131-135 East 66th Street in 1943. Its architect, Charles A. Platt, had his studio in the building, shown about 1908. (Photo by Office for Metropolitan History)
 (Photo Courtesy of the Platt family)Graph tracks Mortgage rates in the region since 2001. (Source by HSH Associates)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); JUDGES (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (72%) Housing

PERSON: Christopher Gray

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (79%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2004



123 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; SQUARE FEET/Flatbush; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: A Richer Mix of Stores For a Once-Rough Area

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA

 BODY:
SOME neighborhoods, SoHo most notably, find that their mix of stores changes as wealthier residents replace old-timers and have more desire to buy designer clothes than 60-cent coffees.
 Something similar is happening in the Flatbush Avenue section of central Brooklyn, although the shift is still subtle and the residents are not moving out. Rather, as young people move to the neighborhood from Manhattan and from other parts of Brooklyn, and as the immigrants from the Caribbean who live in the area become more affluent, the stores are becoming more vibrant and more varied to meet their needs. 
 Timothy Guillen, for instance, said he used to sell mainly athletic shoes in his Stride Rite shoe store on Flatbush Avenue. Today, he displays mostly boys' and girls' dress shoes. ''We are more family oriented now because there is less crime,'' he said. 
 Not long ago, the street was a low-income shopping area with a number of boarded-up storefronts and merchants featuring products priced at less than a dollar. ''These guys didn't invest anything in their stores, and they would disappear in the middle of the night, owing the landlord several months rent,'' said Jack Katz, executive director of the Flatbush Avenue business improvement district.
 He said chain stores, including Lane Bryant, Radio Shack, Petland and Ashley Stewart, had moved in recent years into spaces formerly occupied by local retailers. 
 The growing economic strength of the neighborhood, which is bracketed by the Q subway line on one side and the 2 and 5 on the other, is not only encouraging local retailers to change their offerings, but also attracting national retailers. As a result, commercial rents are increasing, according to real estate executives.
 ''Eight years ago, I was involved in leasing some of these stores, and Flatbush Avenue had a 10 to 15 percent vacancy rate,'' said John G. J. Ritter, an executive vice president of Sholom & Zuckerbrot Realty, a brokerage firm active in Queens and Brooklyn. At that time, he said, ''rental rates were in the high teens'' in terms of dollars per square foot annually. ''Now,'' he added, ''the local rental rates match those of suburban malls, $30 to $40 a square foot.''
 It was those rising rents that persuaded Mr. Guillen, a native of the Dominican Republic, to acquire a building and move his store to its current location about four years ago after nearly a decade in the neighborhood. ''The rent was getting very high, so I moved here and bought the building,'' he said. ''Now I pay a mortgage, not rent.''
 Mr. Ritter, who recently brokered the sale of three retail properties in Flatbush totaling 30,000 square feet for $3.5 million, said the neighborhood is experiencing tremendous growth. 
 On Flatbush Avenue, a business improvement district on the stretch between Cortelyou Road and Parkside Avenue provides security, sanitation and promotion services, and changes are also evident on streets leading out of Flatbush Avenue. 
 Five blocks away, Nicholas Correra said he had been expanding the selection of wines in his liquor store facing the Newkirk Avenue subway station on the Q line. ''I'm selling a lot more good wine than in the past,'' he said. He said residents who commute to Manhattan are increasingly stopping by to buy a bottle of wine for dinner. 
 Mr. Correra's store is in Newkirk Plaza, which opened in 1913. The shopping center has recently been improved, with new ironwork fences replacing crumbling concrete walls and new light fixtures and poles for promotional banners.
 John Broderick, executive director of the Flatbush Development Corporation, an economic development agency, said the city-financed project involved ''$1 million in amenities and $2 million to $3 million in construction underneath.''
 Mr. Broderick said that making shopping areas like Newkirk Plaza and Cortelyou Road more attractive was important to attract the younger people who are moving into the neighborhood. 
 ''The people coming here from Manhattan and Williamsburg are in their 30's, and they are looking to buy,'' he said. He said that three-story Victorian houses in the area are priced in the $800,000 range and that condos in the six-story apartment buildings that house the majority of residents are rapidly appreciating in price.
 ''Stores in Flatbush are changing to tap into this new income,'' Mr. Broderick said. He said the Dunkin' Donuts chain recently invested $500,000 to refurbish a store in Newkirk Plaza. An old barbershop on Cortelyou Road is being converted into a white tablecloth restaurant, and a farmer's market now operates on Saturdays at the nearby Public School 139. ''It's like a community meeting on Saturdays,'' he said.
 But the gentrification has gone only so far. During the electrical blackout last summer, several stores on Flatbush Avenue were broken into and looted.
 Mr. Katz said that when the business improvement district began organizing in 1986, there was a 30 percent vacancy rate along Flatbush Avenue. Now, he said, there are only three vacancies among the 270 storefronts in the 11-block district.
 He said the densely populated area was a natural draw for national retail chains. He said these include Staples and Old Navy as well as fast food chains like McDonald's, Burger King and Kentucky Fried Chicken. A 40,000-square-foot Modell's sporting goods opened recently on Church Avenue.
 ''This was a roughhouse neighborhood when I came here seven years ago,'' said Sol Velelis, the manager of a Cookie's Department Store on Flatbush Avenue. ''We would get packs of kids who would take a lot of merchandise. But things have settled down since then.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photos: A MORE VIBRANT NEIGHBORHOOD -- Neil Telesford, crew leader, at new Dunkin' Donuts, 8 Newkirk Plaza
 above left, Cookie's Department Store, 982 Flatbush Avenue. (Photographs by Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)Map of Brooklyn shows the location of Flatbush Avenue.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (92%); FOOTWEAR (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (87%); SHOE STORES (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (78%); ADOLESCENTS (76%); SUBURBS (73%); RENTAL PROPERTY (71%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (68%) Retail Stores and Trade; Caribbean-Americans; Renting and Leasing

COMPANY: RADIOSHACK CORP (54%); AQUANTIVE INC (50%)

TICKER: RSH (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (54%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (50%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (50%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (50%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (50%)

PERSON: John Holusha

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (77%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2004



124 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; STRATEGIES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 694 words

HEADLINE: Rising Inflation and Rising Stocks? Why Not?

BYLINE: By MARK HULBERT. 
Mark Hulbert is editor of The Hulbert Financial Digest, a service of CBS MarketWatch. E-mail: strategy @nytimes.com.

 BODY:
STOCK market investors have many things to worry about these days. But neither interest rates nor inflation should be at the top of their list.
 That may come as a surprise to those who have dumped stocks in anticipation of higher short-term rates. Few of those investors appear to question the widely held notion that stocks are less attractive when interest rates rise. 
 But this belief is a fallacy, says Clifford S. Asness, managing principal at AQR Capital Management, a money management firm in New York. ''Fretting over rising rates is not rational,'' Mr. Asness said, ''as they should not be a hindrance to rising stock prices.'' 
 Of course, if other things were equal, a climb in interest rates would be cause for concern, because the higher rates add to businesses' borrowing costs and can slow the pace of economic growth. 
 But the Federal Reserve's policy makers do not raise interest rates in a vacuum. They act when they believe that inflation is rising; in these circumstances, higher interest rates have only a small net effect on the average company.
 To understand why, it is helpful to recall that interest rates -- when the Fed is on its game -- tend to follow inflation up and down. People who believe that stocks are invariably worth less when interest rates are higher presumably also believe that companies cannot earn more when inflation is higher.
 Historically, though, the average company's earnings have grown faster when inflation is relatively high. In other words, the stock market is a good long-term hedge against inflation.
 Investors often miss this, because they tend to focus only on corporate earnings over the previous few years. Even at times when inflation is heading back up, for example, they expect earnings growth to continue at the slower pace that was established when inflation was low. In effect, they view stocks as a poor inflation hedge; when inflation worsens, they punish them accordingly.
 The failure to see stocks as a good inflation hedge is part of ''money illusion,'' which occurs when investors confuse nominal, or reported, prices with real, or inflation-adjusted, ones. The phrase traces back to a 1979 article by two finance professors, Franco Modigliani and Richard A. Cohn. (Professor Modigliani, then at M.I.T., was a Nobel laureate in economics in 1985; he died in 2003. Professor Cohn, then at the University of Illinois at Chicago, is now at the University of Hartford.)
 In the article, the professors argued that investors in the late 1970's, a time of double-digit inflation, were placing unreasonably low valuations on stocks by mistakenly assuming that a company's nominal earnings were the same as its real ones and thus would not grow faster with higher inflation. In effect, the professors forecast the great bull market of the 1980's and 90's.
 Their insight was based more on theoretical speculation than on historical analysis. But recent studies of market data and investor psychology have shown that they were right. One of the most comprehensive has been circulating in academic circles since April; it found strong evidence of money illusion over a long period -- June 1928 to December 2001. Its authors are the finance professors Randolph B. Cohen and Tuomo Vuolteenaho of Harvard and Christopher K. Polk of Northwestern. A copy is at http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3
 /papers.cfm?abstract-id=548402.
 Another good illustration of money illusion came in the late 1990's. Then, because inflation and interest rates had been low for several years, investors priced stocks too dearly. By early 2000, the average price-to-earnings multiple of the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was above 20; in the late 1970's, it was below 8. The bear market of 2000 to 2002 can be viewed in part as the market's attempt to correct years of gross overvaluation.
 To be sure, some advisers, including Mr. Asness, say that the bear market accomplished only part of the job, and that stocks are still overvalued. So they don't plan to jump wholeheartedly into stocks anytime soon.
 Nevertheless, Mr. Asness says, worries about interest rates should not make you any less bullish today than you were six months ago.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Long-Term Hedge''Stocks performed well during periods of both high and low inflation from 1871 to 2003. Following are the average annual stock market returns during all 30-year periods in that span (1871-1900, 1872-1901, etc.). Those periods were separated into five equal groups, based on the average annual inflation rate of each.Inflation range: +4.4%-+5.4%Average annual inflation-adjusted stock returns: 5.5%Inflation range: +2.5%-+4.4%Average annual inflation-adjusted stock returns: 7.3%Inflation range: +1.8%-+2.5%Average annual inflation-adjusted stock returns: 5.7%Inflation range: 0-+1.3%Average annual inflation-adjusted stock returns: 5.5%Inflation range: -1.4%-0Average annual inflation-adjusted stock returns: 7.1%(Source by Jeremy J. Siegel, Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); INTEREST RATES (93%); INFLATION (92%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (84%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); BONDS (73%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); NOBEL PRIZES (68%); NEWS BRIEFS (64%) Stocks and Bonds; United States Economy; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (59%) Federal Reserve System

PERSON: Mark Hulbert

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2004



125 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL 3-20

Abuse Inquiries Criticized
The inquires into abuses of prisoners in Iraq and Afghanistan have left some crucial questions unexamined, according to lawmakers from both parties and outside military experts, who warn that the accountability of senior officers and defense officials may remain unanswered as a result. 1

Fighters loyal to Moktada al-Sadr, the Shiite radical who fashioned an army from the discontented populace of Iraq's slums, began to withdraw from the centers of Najaf and Kufa amid reports that he had met with Grand Ayatollah Ali Al-Sistani, Iraq's most revered Shiite cleric. 1

Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld met with top officials of Bangladesh, which currently has more peacekeepers around the world than any other nation, but he reported no progress in finding new troops for Iraq or Afghanistan. 14

Framework for Iraq
President Bush and President Jacques Chirac of France said they had narrowed their differences over a United Nations resolution establishing a framework for returning self-government to Iraq. 20

Arab Allies Skipping Meeting
A Bush administration plan for the world's wealthiest nations to declare their support for democracy in the Middle East has strained relations with several important allies in the Arab world. 14

First Gay Wedding in France
France witnessed its first gay wedding, despite warnings from the central government that the ceremony was illegal and the mayor who officiated could be punished. 20

Diplomacy Between the Koreas
North and South Korea agreed to open their first cross-border road and rail links by October, as South Korea announced that it would extend a 400,000- ton rice ''loan'' to North Korea. 6

India's Farmers Dying of Despair
Thousands of farmers have committed suicide in India, with the most recent deaths occurring since a new state government took office promising farmers relief. The suicides reflect a rural culture in which excess debt is a mark of shame, but are also an indicator of the dire straits of the agricultural economy. 6

NATIONAL 22-34

Kerry's Vice President Slot
The campaign for the vice presidential spot on the Democratic ticket is on, and John Kerry is reaping the benefits every day, as several men widely mentioned as possible running mates crisscross the country and appear widely on the cable networks on his behalf. 1

The Democratic Party took the first, tentative step toward writing a platform plank on the war in Iraq that it hopes will distinguish Democrats from the Bush administration without creating the divisions that afflicted the party during and after the Vietnam War. 24

Supermarkets Catering to Poor
Federal and state officials are alarmed about the proliferation of food stores that cater to low-income people but charge more than other grocery stores, thus driving up the cost of a federal nutrition program. 34

Discord Among Bishops
Six months after Archbishop Raymond Burke announced that he would deny communion to Roman Catholic politicians who support abortion rights, only a handful of bishops have said they agree and many more have made it clear that they think he went too far. 22

SCIENCE/HEALTH

'Targeted' Cancer Treatment
A pill known as BAY 43-9006 is one of a new generation of ''targeted'' therapies that are transforming cancer treatment by attacking the underlying molecular mechanisms of the disease. 1

Lung cancer patients whose tumors are removed by surgery can improve their long-term odds of survival if they have chemotherapy after their operation, according to conclusions from two clinical trials. 26

OBITUARIES 44-48

Ronald Wilson Reagan
America's 40th president was 93. The former film star was the oldest person to enter the White House, but he was imbued with a youthful optimism rooted in the traditional virtues of a bygone era. 1

NEW YORK/REGION 37-42

New Script for Emergency Drill
The Indian Point nuclear plant will hold an emergency drill on Tuesday, and for the first time the hypothetical crisis that will be the subject of the drill is a terrorist attack. 40

Battle Over School Financing
Gov. George E. Pataki and the leaders of the New York Legislature are waging an increasingly bitter battle over how to provide a ''sound, basic education'' for New York City's schoolchildren. But there is one area of agreement: they all want to increase school aid across the state. 37

Chess 42
Weather 49

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PEACEKEEPING (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); ARMIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); VIETNAM WAR (73%); IRAQ WAR (73%); ARMED FORCES (72%); RELIGION (71%); AGRICULTURE (68%); SUICIDE (68%); POOR POPULATION (68%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (67%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (60%); NUTRITION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%)

PERSON: MOQTADA AL-SADR (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JACQUES CHIRAC (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); INDIA (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (87%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); BANGLADESH (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2004



126 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; SundayBusiness; NEWS AND ANALYSIS: ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 979 words

HEADLINE: Adding Value To Immigrants' Cash

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH BECKER

 BODY:
ON the highway connecting El Salvador's national airport to the capital, San Salvador, most of the billboards don't promote luxury cars, fancy tourist hotels or clothing stores. Instead, they advertise the electronic transfer of remittances -- las remesas -- the money earned by Salvadoran men and women in the United States and sent back in allotments of maybe $200 or $300 a month.
 For hundreds of years, immigrant workers in America have sent modest amounts to their families in the old country, often by hand -- through a trusted friend or an informal agent. Entire villages in Poland and Greece survived off such homely remittances in the 1950's. 
 Next week, for the first time, heads of state of the world's wealthiest nations plan to discuss remittances, in a belated acknowledgment of their huge role in providing aid to the poor. 
 Those small bundles of money add up to one of the biggest transfers of wealth from rich countries to poor ones. The global remittance market may be as much as $150 billion annually, triple the development aid given by the wealthy nations to the poor and, in many countries, far more than direct foreign investment.
 When they meet on Tuesday at Sea Island, Ga., President Bush and the other leaders from the Group of 8 industrialized nations intend to discuss ways to reduce the cost of sending the money home, and to make it more useful for poor nations once it gets there. But the range of ideas on the table is fairly narrow: reducing the size of commissions paid to companies that transfer the money, drawing immigrants to the traditional bank and financial system so more of the money is saved and made available for loans, and using those savings for specific small-scale development programs.
 Absent is any discussion of the plight of the workers who earn and send back the money. They often risk their lives to reach a rich country like the United States, where they may hold down two jobs and earn less than $20,000 a year, suffer years of separation from their families and endure an uncertain legal status.
 Nor will the leaders examine why poorer societies continually need to export labor to survive -- or what can be done to break the cycle.
 Despite these limits, Manuel Orozco, Central America project director for the Inter-American Dialogue, a research group based in Washington, says the discussion at the summit meeting is an important step forward. ''It's a backdoor way to begin talking about migration and these workers, a subject that is very sensitive in rich nations,'' he said. ''On balance, it is positive to begin these discussions and understand the critical importance of remittances.''
 By their nature, such meetings tend toward a cosmic perspective; the lives of individual workers are often missing from discussions of trade and globalization. Government leaders dedicated to dismantling barriers to the free flow of goods and services often avoid talking about opening borders to the people who make those goods or perform those services.
 But the discovery over the last five years that remittances are a huge and essential money source for developing countries like Albania, El Salvador, Tonga and Lebanon is putting some aspects of labor on the global trade agenda. Mr. Orozco and the Inter-American Development Bank put together the first studies showing how remittances had exploded with globalization and the technological revolution that allowed money to be wired quickly to ever-more-remote areas of the developing world.
 Now the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund are tracking the global flow of remittances. Dilip Ratha, a senior economist at the bank, prepared the charts and studies for the talks this week. ''If we can reduce the cost of sending these remittances, it would mean an additional $10 billion flowing to the poor in developing nations,'' Mr. Ratha said. ''If we can get the money moving through formal channels, that would mean greater savings and more credit for these people.''
 Kathleen Newland, director of the Migration Policy Institute, a group that studies immigration issues, said the discussion should include recommendations for allowing migrant workers to travel back and forth legally, so they could take an active role in improving their home communities. ''That would have a bigger impact on development,'' she said.
 Though remittances cover basic expenses for poor families, like food, clothing, shelter and some education, poor countries need more investment and entrepreneurship. With foreign aid at low levels and foreign investors preferring proven powerhouses like China, many poor nations increasingly depend on their own workers to go abroad and send money home.
 DEVELOPMENT experts like Dani Rodrik, professor of international political economy at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard, said they would be disappointed if world leaders failed to address the larger issues of the labor force. ''Return migration is crucial in the long run,'' he said. ''Workers returning home with their remittances could become a huge new flow for new investments as long as there were enough incentives to invest.''
 Though many workers return to their home country when economic opportunities are offered there, migration for the most part has been a one-way street. Workers come to the United States or other wealthy nations and, often, their families eventually follow. Some critics fear that there will be a permanent class of countries that survive by providing cheap labor to rich nations.
 ''With this now-highly mobile labor force going to countries with the jobs, you could see perpetually underdeveloped societies that will always need to export their labor to survive,'' said Joseph Siegle, a fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. ''I don't think that's the long-term solution we are looking for.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (91%); LUXURY GOODS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); FOREIGN LABOR (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); REFUGEES (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); AIRPORTS (73%); TRENDS (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Foreign Aid ; Foreign Investments; Immigration and Refugees; Foreign Workers; Labor; Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (82%) Group of Eight

PERSON: Elizabeth Becker

GEOGRAPHIC: GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); EL SALVADOR (92%); CENTRAL AMERICA (73%); POLAND (72%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2004



127 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION/Connecticut; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1023 words

HEADLINE: Going Farther Afield to Develop Homes

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES

DATELINE: TORRINGTON 

 BODY:
ONE of the most adventurous of major developers seeking Connecticut property outside of famously overpriced Fairfield County is the Baker Companies of Pleasantville, N.Y. It is simultaneously building single-family subdivisions in Torrington, Canton, Wallingford and Middlebury and a town-house complex in Danbury, for a total of 442 units in four counties.
 Norman C. Greenberg, vice president of the company, said: ''We are recognizing that people are looking to move into areas that heretofore have not been in as much demand -- too far out. But people are commuting greater distances because of pricing.'' 
 Developers are also recognizing what Barry Rosa, vice president of Prudential Connecticut Realty, said ''is not just price.'' There is also the matter of finding attractive land in Fairfield County large enough to do a subdivision of 70 or 80 homes. 
 But move to Torrington? This faded, former industrial city, an aberration among Litchfield County's country-chic towns and villages? Many potential home buyers automatically respond by saying, ''No thanks!''
 ''That's something people have to get over,'' said Joanne Carroll, publisher of Connecticut Builder Magazine and former president of the Connecticut Homebuilders' Association. ''It isn't the grungy manufacturing town it used to be. People are moving there first for affordability. Then they find out how pretty it is -- the countryside is really beautiful with mountains and lakes.''
 Moreover, Torrington is in the throes of redevelopment, with a Home Depot, BJ's Wholesale Club, Wal-Mart and new downtown boutiques and offices.
 There is also Sharon Dante's ballet company, called Nutmeg Conservatory for the Arts, and the Warner Theater on Main Street. Built by Warner Brothers in 1931 as an ornate showcase for its movies, it has been restored as a legitimate theater with $10 million of state and private money. It recently converted a property across the street as a satellite theater for more intimate productions.
 Torrington is also getting a $47 million state courthouse, which should enhance the downtown economy, said Martin J. Connor, the city planner. 
 At Pleasantview, the Baker Companies' Torrington subdivision on Torringford Street (Route 183), the last group of a total of 122 homes is under construction on lots of a half acre and larger. Of the 70 percent that have been sold, most were contracted before the bulldozer hit the dirt. 
 More than a third of the 163-acre tract is wooded green space, and the development is bordered by a nature preserve where deer, small animals, birds and wild turkey roam against a backdrop of green mountains. 
 Covering 1,953 square feet to 2,798 square feet and priced from $264,060 to $324,840, the homes have three or four bedrooms, two-and-a-half bathrooms, two-story foyers, family great rooms, living rooms, separate dining rooms, dens, large kitchens with pantries, breakfast areas and center island work stations, master suites, decks and two-car garages. Any of the seven models would cost from the mid-$500,000's to the high $600,000's in Westchester or Fairfield, Mr. Greenberg said.
 But people now living and working in New Britain, Bristol and other towns in the greater Hartford area are the prevalent buyers, said Sandy Banks, a sales agent. 
 Judy and Walter Curry have lived at Pleasantview for 18 months. He is the head track and field coach at Wesleyan University in Middletown, and she works in the graduate liberal studies program. ''We used to travel for an hour and 15 minutes from our home in Massachusetts to jobs in Boston,'' Ms. Curry said. ''Now it only takes us 50 minutes from Torrington to Middletown.''
 After previously putting a $1,000 deposit on a house in Ellington, they discovered that a premium lot could increase the $350,000 price by up to $15,000. ''We went on the Internet,'' Ms. Curry said, ''and as soon as we visited Pleasantview and saw the perfect house for us, that was it.'' The lot premium was far less on their acre of land, and they are putting in a pool. ''We love it here,'' Ms. Curry said. ''It's an up-and-coming area.''
 Low home prices take some of the sting out of Torrington's property taxes, which are regarded as relatively high.
 Pleasantview is the least expensive of the Baker projects in Connecticut. Collins Crossing in Canton is the most expensive, based on the cost of land, the community's upscale character and the overall size of the homes. Otherwise, the layouts and finishes are similar to those in the other Baker developments. Five home styles of 2,850 square feet to 3,600 square feet are priced at $499,900 to $539,900. Seven homes are available out of a total of 71. 
 ''Canton is in the very active Hartford marketplace and has been developing quickly because homes there are less than in surrounding towns like Avon and Farmington,'' said Mr. Rosa of Prudential. ''But land prices have accelerated faster than home prices, and the cost of building materials -- from framing lumber to sheet metal -- has been skyrocketing, pushing home prices up.'' 
 At the two other Baker single-family-home subdivisions -- Brookside in Middlebury, with 126 homes, and Fieldstone Farm in Wallingford, with 95 homes, both in New Haven County -- the two sets of five models each are similar to one another. Some are in the Arts and Crafts style, with front porches and attractive stonework on pillars, foundations and around front doors.
 Brookside will begin sales next month on the next phase of homes; they will be 2,200 square feet to 3,200 square feet and priced at $365,000 to $450,000. Homes of 2,215 to 2,747 square feet at the Wallingford site are priced at $361,990 to $409,990.
 Common charges at Baker communities, covering services like lawn mowing and snow clearance, range from $101 a month in Wallingford to $216 a month at Lexington Court in Danbury, the only Fairfield County project among the five developments. At Lexington Court, 24 town houses in 12 buildings will circle a green. They will have entry foyers, large kitchens with breakfast rooms, master suites and two additional bedrooms, two-car garages and recreation rooms in the basement.


GRAPHIC: Photos: MORE THAN AFFORDABILITY -- At Pleasantview, in a heavily wooded setting in Torrington, the four-bedroom, two-and-a-half-bath model below is listed at $309,900. (Photographs by George Ruhe for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); DANCE COMPANIES (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (69%); FILM (68%); MOUNTAINS (64%); BALLET (63%); THEATER & DRAMA (63%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (62%); MAMMALS (62%); ANIMALS (60%) 

COMPANY: PRUDENTIAL CONNECTICUT REALTY (56%); BJ'S WHOLESALE CLUB INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: baker cos

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (56%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (54%); SIC5399 MISC. GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (54%)

PERSON: Eleanor Charles

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Connecticut; Torrington (Conn); Canton (Conn); Wallingford (Conn); Middlebury (Conn); Danbury (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2004



128 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 3; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2560 words

HEADLINE: They're Splendid, Except When They Fall

BYLINE: By BARBARA WHITAKER

DATELINE: GREENBURGH 

 BODY:
DARREL SEIFE felt as if he had lost an old friend. Out near the road, a V-shaped trunk was all that remained of the towering oak tree that had stood at the foot of his driveway since long before his arrival at the house 10 years ago. Where branches once arched high and shadows dappled on the pavement, a stump now sat awkwardly like a giant slingshot. 
 ''At first, it seemed like a good idea,'' Mr. Seife, still in mourning, said of the town officials who had told him they needed to take the tree down because it might not be stable. He could have accepted the responsibility for it and had it braced, but that would have made him liable had it fallen on someone. Still, the empty space in the yard loomed before him, a painful reminder. 
 ''It's not like losing a human life,'' he said, ''but I'm questioning whether I made the right decision.'' 
 If the town erred on the side of caution in the case of Mr. Seife's oak, it had good reason to do so. Last year it paid a $9 million out-of-court settlement to a Yonkers woman paralyzed and widowed when a tree fell onto her car on Central Park Avenue in 1998.
 Another lawsuit could well emerge from a similar accident this spring, in which a couple were killed as they were driving on the Saw Mill River Parkway in Hastings-on-Hudson. Their infant daughter, now 7 months old, was in a safety seat and survived.
 ''You can't play Russian roulette and just assume a tree isn't going to fall over in your municipality,'' said Paul J. Feiner, Greenburgh supervisor.
 Yet that is what some arborists say Westchester towns have been known to do: avoid inspecting trees because they fear advance knowledge could make them liable.
 ''They see it as a Catch-22,'' said Kevin Kenney, local manager in the Westchester office of Bartlett Tree Experts and an official for the New York State Arborists . ''If you inspect the trees you open yourself up for every liability possible. If you don't inspect them it's almost like you can plead ignorance.''
 On the tree issue, Mr. Kenney said, municipalities juggling tight budgets are often faced with a financial dilemma: They can spend their money either on large insurance policies to protect against lawsuits or on teams of arborists and town foresters conducting exhaustive examinations of trees. Finances are often tight for such tasks. 
 ''Budgets are getting cut and trees are always the first to go,'' said Michael H. Cook Jr., district manager for The Care of Trees Company in Westchester.
 Greenburgh, for one, has learned the high cost of neglect. Before the Central Park Avenue accident in 1998, the town did not have a thorough tree inspection program, said Cyrus M. Diamond, the lawyer representing Selamawit Hilliard, the Yonkers survivor. 
 ''While you can't inspect every tree in the town,'' Mr. Diamond said, ''certainly some locations are more important than others in my opinion, and trees that are adjacent to busy thoroughfares should be at the top of the list.''
 Since the settlement in the Hilliard case, Mr. Feiner said, Greenburgh has increased its liability insurance to $21 million from $4 million. In addition, it has about $100,000 in the budget for the removal of trees, with an arborist checking trees practically every day. About 100 trees have been removed in the last year, he said.
 As an added protection, technological advances allow arborists nowadays to gather highly specific information about tree health. Frank C. Buddingh, a Larchmont arborist, says one of the most commonly used devices is a digital microprobe that detects decay.
 ''If a tree is hollow,'' Mr. Buddingh said, ''I can tell you exactly to the millimeter how hollow.''
 But even with precautions like these, accidents happen. Robert A. Dennison III, regional director for the State Department of Transportation, said the tree that killed Stephen J. Spruck and Suzana Dedivanaj-Spruck on the Saw Mill in April was apparently not dead. Explaining that he and his co-workers take out about 5,500 dead or dying trees each year in the Hudson Valley, Mr. Dennison described the one that killed the Sprucks as a 50-year-old ash, in bud, that went down on a sunny day for no obvious reason.
 ''It's very sad and very unfortunate and frightening to us,'' he acknowledged, ''but we are looking every day and taking trees every day. We think what we're doing is a reasonable way to do this.''
 Mr. Kenney, the arborist, declined to comment specifically on the Saw Mill accident but noted: ''It's easy to be a Monday-morning quarterback. I drive down that road every day, and there are always tree crews doing work.''
 It only complicates the work of such crews that many people, like Mr. Seife mourning his oak in Greenburgh, are deeply ambivalent about losing trees.
 Mr. Dennison noted that many of the parkways and state highways his department is responsible for are very old. The path of Route 9, for example, has existed since before the Revolution and the trees bordering it tend to be quite old. He says residents often complain as crews are doing tree clearance along stretches of highway and parkway.
 ''The trees are old, and people don't want them to be taken down,'' Mr. Dennison said. ''If they're a threat, our job is to convince them it's the right thing to do for the public good.''
 Yet the issue is always contentious, and it becomes only more so the farther one goes from major thoroughfares in Westchester. 
 Ask people what they like about the county and odds are good that green will be part of their answer. Green as in trees. Big ones, small ones, deciduous and coniferous, towering and drooping, scenting the air with their oxygen-rich perfume. It's no wonder that Joyce Kilmer never found a poem as lovely as a tree: he came from Larchmont, a town that even has a tree in its name. 
 Like-minded residents in Westchester today prize not only the beauty and environmental benefits of trees but also their gratifying effect on real estate prices. ''When people see a municipal truck cutting down a tree they typically get angry,'' Mr. Feiner, the Greenburgh supervisor, said. ''They feel it's an enhancement to the community.''
 Many a community battle has been waged over whether a given tree will succumb to development or be accommodated in new landscapes. At least 21 of 45 Westchester municipalities have ordinances regulating the removal of trees on private property, with some also covering them under historic preservation laws. And governments are often looking for new ways to protect them.
 In Somers, for example, officials are reviewing the effectiveness of tree protection legislation adopted only within the last year. That law requires a permit to cut down trees with trunks measuring more than eight inches in diameter, in buffer areas 20 feet from a property line. It also requires a permit for the felling of more than five trees anywhere, said Mary Beth Murphy, Somers supervisor. 
 But after reviewing the law, the town realized that it did not offer much protection for smaller trees like dogwoods; officials are now looking to strengthen the ordinance.
 Somers, a northern Westchester community relying on wells and septic systems, must also rely on trees to help maintain the natural environment that cleans the waters going into the reservoirs that supply drinking water, Ms. Murphy said. She also emphasized that the town is situated in the Croton Watershed and is serious about its role as a steward of that system. 
 Beyond that, trees are important in the town's efforts to retain its rural ambience in these days of relentless development.
 ''It's one of the charms that draw people here,'' Ms. Murphy said.
 Trees can also be a bonus for property values. As Mr. Cook of The Care of Trees put it: ''Trees to me are no different than your kitchen or bath. People look at them as an economic value that can add 10 to 15 percent to resale value.''
 He added that he had seen contracts drawn up to protect trees when pools were being installed or construction was being done on a neighboring lot. Typically, such contracts set penalties for disturbances to root systems. 
 But whether residents are spending $125 a year to have their trees inspected or many thousands to have them maintained, arborists describe an increasing overall awareness of trees' value.
 Bedford provides a good example. The town spends about $250,000 a year inspecting, treating and removing trees, as well as about $8,000 a year to protect the Bedford Oak, a massive gnarled specimen that has stood at the intersection of Cantitoe Street and Hook Road for 400 to 500 years, said Peter T. Michaelis, chairman of the town's tree advisory board. 
 With branches spreading out about 130 feet and a trunk some 18 feet in circumference, the Bedford Oak looks like something out of a fairy tale. A crutch was placed under its lowest branch to protect it from breaking off should someone sit on it, Mr. Michaelis said.
 ''Its strength and longevity have made it a symbol for the town,'' Mr. Michaelis said.
 On a smaller scale in Bedford, Maple Avenue residents are beginning to discuss replacing the street's namesake trees, which line the block.
 ''These trees are hitting the end of their lifetime and we're faced with a dilemma,'' Mr. Michaelis said. ''People are unhappy when they start to see an old tree come down and a sapling go up.''
 To get ahead of the curve, they are beginning to plant young maples before the others have to come down. 
 ''At least in northern Westchester,'' he concluded, ''we don't think of ourselves as a suburb, we think of ourselves as the country. And our trees are very emblematic of that.
 ''A tree can't come down in this community without someone saying, 'Oh, My God.''' 
 And Greenburgh isn't much different. It may be less rural than Bedford, but Mr. Seife is not the only Greenburgh resident who feels chagrined when a tree comes down. 
 About two weeks ago, Greenburgh residents converged on 42 Round Hill Road, not far from Mr. Seife's house, to express their concerns about tree removal to a new owner, his lawyer, arborist and landscape architect. The town board and supervisor were there, too. The site of the former Scarsdale gun club, the 1.3-acre property has gone untouched for some 75 years.
 Michael P. D'Alessio, the property owner, has proposed building a $2 million home with tennis court, swimming pool and pool house. Many trees too small to be covered by the town's tree ordinance -- those with trunks under six inches in diameter -- are already gone. Mr. D'Alessio's plans call for the removal of 61 of the 85 remaining mature trees.
 But the neighborhood is fighting the plan and has asked the town to limit the number further. The site visit was meant to give officials and neighbors a firsthand glimpse of what would go and what would stay. Mature trees had been numbered, and many of them were discussed at length.
 At times, tempers flared.
 Mark Weingarten, who is representing Mr. D'Alessio, asserted that the opposition was not really about the trees, but about not wanting his client to build on the property. He said he felt his client was being held to an unfairly high standard, citing next-door neighbors who 
 ''don't want these trees to come down because they don't have a single tree on their property.
 ''I look at the other side of the hedgerow,'' Mr. Weingarten said, ''and there is not a single tree.''
 The neighbor in question, Mark Kaplan, countered that Mr. D'Alessio had only one goal: to clear-cut the land for subdivision and full development. 
 Neighbors expressed fear that the developer's plans would so denude the land on the sloping lot that the character of the neighborhood would be forever changed and the downhill neighbors would suffer severe drainage problems. ''We passed a law in Greenburgh that says trees must be preserved,'' said Thomas J. Abinanti, a county legislator for the area and a lawyer representing concerned neighbors. ''If you want a Long Island-style development, go develop in Long Island. Keep the green in Greenburgh.''
 To the landscape architect and the arborist hired by Mr. D'Alessio, the scrutiny was not surprising. Over the years, they said they had become used to such debates.
 ''Trees are the most emotional thing in the world,'' said Mr. Buddingh, the arborist, whose Buddingh Tree business card carries the slogan ''Balancing the Needs of Trees and People.''
 ''The reality is, this is a building lot, and it's important you be allowed to build, and that means change,'' he said. ''Change just doesn't come easy.'' 

Many Losses, and a Survivor
 THE deaths of Stephen J. Spruck and Suzana Dedivanaj-Spruck in a traffic accident on the Saw Mill Parkway in April have made the life of their 7-month-old daughter, Kristina, all the more special.
 Kristina's survival, described as no less than a miracle by Msgr. Edward Barry as he eulogized the couple during services at St. Barnabas Church in the Bronx, has rallied her family to pull together to care for the little girl who came inches from death as a tree fell on the family's sport utility vehicle.
 Marie Spruck, her grandmother, said in a telephone interview that it was still too painful to go into detail about what had happened. She said the baby was staying with other family members and would remain in the family, though it was not clear which members would take custody. Peter A. Goldman, a family lawyer, said, ''Plans have been put in place to safeguard her future, and she will have as normal an upbringing as possible under the circumstances.'' 
 Hundreds turned out for the couple's funeral, including students of Suzana Dedivanaj-Spruck, who taught third and fifth grade at P.S. 8 in the Bronx. She was on still maternity leave at the time of the accident. Her husband was an accountant with KPMG, a financial services corporation.
 No decision has been made on whether to file a lawsuit, Mr. Goldman said.
 At least eight injury or fatal accidents involving falling trees or branches have been reported in Westchester County over the last 12 years. On Oct. 19, 1996, a Queens man was fatally injured on the Saw Mill when a tree toppled onto the roadway during a storm. Farther north on the parkway that same day, a 79-year-old Bedford Hills man was killed. 
 Many of the other accidents also occurred during storms. In 1997, a 20-year-old White Plains man was killed when a branch snapped in high winds and came through the windshield of his car on Route 22. In 1996, a Poughkeepsie man was killed when a large tree fell across three lanes of the Sprain Brook Parkway in Greenburgh during a snowstorm.
 In 1992, a 43-year-old Pelham Manor man, Frederick Guido, suffered permanent brain damage and blindness when a winter storm knocked a century-old oak tree onto his Jeep. 
 It was a still, sunny day in 1998 when a tree came down and killed William Hilliard, 51, as he and his wife, Selamawit, were driving on Central Park Avenue. Mrs. Hilliard was left a quadriplegic. Last year she won a $9 million settlement from Greenburgh. Cyrus M. Diamond, Mrs. Hilliard's lawyer, said that after a convalescence in a nursing home after the accident, she now lives in an apartment in Yonkers with full-time help. She has no memory of the accident, he said. Mr. Diamond said that if there was a message in the lawsuit, it was that towns need to make better use of trained arborists and conduct tree inspections. BARBARA WHITAKER


GRAPHIC: Photos: The historic Bedford Oak, top, is maintained at an annual cost of $8,000. In theory, that should keep it from causing the kind of accident that killed Stephen and Suzana Spruck in April. Their newborn, Kristina, survived. (Photo by Susan Farley for The New York Times)
(Photo by Robert F. Rodriguez/The Journal News)(pg. 1)
Although it usually takes a storm or winds to fell a tree, the one that killed Stephen and Suzana Spruck was in bud and fell on a sunny, calm day. All trees are vulnerable, even well-tended ones like the Swamp Oak, on the campus of Reader's Digest in Chappaqua. (Photos by Robert F. Rodriguez/The Journal News, top
 Susan Farley for The New York Times)(pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LITIGATION (87%); BUDGETS (87%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (73%); CITIES (70%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (67%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (64%) Trees and Shrubs; Accidents and Safety; Suits and Litigation; Trees and Shrubs

PERSON: Barbara Whitaker

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Greenburgh (NY); Yonkers (NY); Westchester County (NY)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2004



129 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 576 words

HEADLINE: Green Mountain Shoppers, Unite

BYLINE: By Art Woolf. 
Art Woolf is associate professor of economics at the University of Vermont and editor of The Vermont Economy Newsletter.

DATELINE: BURLINGTON, Vt. 

 BODY:
For a small state, Vermont gets more than its 15 minutes of fame. First, our own Jim Jeffords upset the Senate balance when he defected from the Republican Party and became an independent in 2001. Then Howard Dean put us on the political map -- for a while. Most recently, the National Trust for Historic Preservation put the entire state of Vermont -- all 9,250 square miles -- on its list of ''most endangered'' places, an annual list more commonly filled by historic buildings or unusual scenic areas. 
 This is only the second time an entire state has been put on the National Trust's list. The first time was in 1993 and the threatened state was also Vermont. Back then, Vermont was threatened by an invasion of a non-native species -- Wal-Mart. We now have four Wal-Marts and, so far, we've survived. But according to the National Trust, we're again threatened by Wal-Mart, this time from its plans to build -- or as the trust puts it, ''to saturate'' the state with -- as many as seven more ''behemoth stores'' in our towns. 
 Are Vermonters worried? Some certainly are, including editorial page writers from the state's major dailies and environmental organizations that have changed their mission from protecting the state's water and air to protecting their image of what they think Vermont should look like. 
 But most Vermonters seem to enjoy shopping at Wal-Mart and other big-box stores that offer them convenience, selection and low prices, at least as evidenced by parking lots full of cars (and yes, pickup trucks and S.U.V.'s -- Vermonters also enjoy driving gas guzzlers). 
 Most of the towns where the new Wal-Marts may be built are towns that used to be home to Ames department stores. Since that regional chain went bankrupt two years ago, many Vermont towns lack any discount store, and residents have to drive long distances to buy inexpensive necessities. Wal-Mart clearly sees an opportunity here.
 Tourists and other out-of-staters (known as flatlanders around here) may like hardly ever seeing a big-box store as they travel our rural roads, shop and enjoy our small-town atmosphere. After all, even the biggest city in the state, Burlington, feels like a small town -- its population is only 40,000. 
 But those of us who work and live in Vermont also appreciate the ability to buy clothing, appliances and housewares at reasonable prices. Many of us find it hard to believe the National Trust's concern that our sense of history and community will be forever changed simply by our being able to drive to a local Wal-Mart, instead of driving to the local Kmart. 
 We recognize that our towns and countrysides are unique, and we appreciate them. We also pay a price for that. Our incomes are lower than those in most Northeastern states, and many of us could earn a lot more by moving somewhere else. We are willing to make that trade-off. But the folks at the National Trust ought to be careful about asking us to pay an even higher price by not giving us the benefits of modern retailing that big-box stores provide. 
 We are, however, reasonable people. If Wal-Mart saves consumers 10 percent on their average purchase, we would be willing to make a deal with the National Trust. We'll agree not to accept any more Wal-Marts in Vermont. And we'll even toss the existing Wal-Marts out. In exchange, each year the National Trust has to reimburse us for the $36 million extra we'll be spending by not benefiting from Wal-Mart's low prices.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing Arnold Roth) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); HISTORY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HISTORIC SITES (90%); RETAILERS (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (71%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (68%); MOTOR VEHICLES (68%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (50%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (50%) Retail Stores and Trade; Historic Buildings and Sites

COMPANY: AMES DEPARTMENT STORES INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL TRUST FOR HISTORIC PRESERVATION (84%) National Trust for Historic Preservation; Wal-Mart Stores Inc

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (52%)

PERSON: Art Woolf

GEOGRAPHIC: BURLINGTON, VT, USA (92%) VERMONT, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) Vermont

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2004



130 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 357 words

HEADLINE: A Home, at Last, For World Music

BYLINE: By JON PARELES

 BODY:
TWO-THIRDS of an old name could rebound if a redeveloped downtown had a World Music Center as its cultural core. Now that jazz is about to get a customized headquarters with Jazz at Lincoln Center's Rose Hall at the Time Warner Center, world music in New York seems more displaced and nomadic than ever.
 The glorious historical accident that is New York City includes representatives from virtually every nation and culture. Yet world-music concerts get stuck in European-style auditoriums with alien formalities and time limitations, while dance music ends up in clubs where bar sales can take priority over decent sound. Cafe styles become background music for restaurant chatter. And community centers struggle to convince the children of immigrants that songs and dances from the old country are as cool as hip-hop. 
 Giving the world's music a home would be an architectural and organizational challenge. The center ought to have a riverside amphitheater for music meant to boom outdoors, and a mid-size auditorium with a waiver on tight union rules (or a huge overtime budget). It should include a snazzy dance hall, where a salsa band might play one night and a Serbian brass band could oom-pah the next. It needs a room of worship to hold music of spirituality and ritual. It could use an elegant, intimate room for styles that came from royal courts, and two or three quiet cafes -- perhaps with chefs to match cuisine to the night's music.
 The place would need booking geniuses with eyes and ears in the city's neighborhoods as well as abroad; those people exist. And with New York City's demographics, the place would never run out of potential performers: not just for evening events, but for daytime workshops, lunch-hour performances, wedding parties and maybe a morning raga weekly at dawn. Keep one cafe open 24 hours for solo acts.
 Sure, it's a fantasy. But on the site where impassable cultural divides led to mass murder, a World Music Center would exploit and delight in New York's cultural propinquities and transcend lip-service tributes to diversity and tolerance. It's hard to hate people when you're dancing to their music.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The cultural components proposed for ground zero haven't captured the city's imagination, and officials who will make the choice may be ready to start over. (Photo by Vincent Laforet/The New York Times)
CBGB on the Bowery: could we have bohemian enclaves rather than high-culture hothouses? (Photo by Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)
At Symphony Space on the Upper West Side, music, dance, theater and film come together. (Photo by Associated Press)
 The Pompidou Center has become a beehive of cultural activity for Paris. (Photo by Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JAZZ & BLUES (90%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); DANCE (89%); MUSIC GENRES (78%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CHILDREN (74%); HIP HOP CULTURE (73%); RAP MUSIC (73%); IMMIGRATION (71%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (69%); OVERTIME (66%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (62%); TERRORISM (59%) Music; Area Planning and Renewal; World Trade Center (NYC); Freedom Tower (NYC); Terrorism

PERSON: Jon Pareles

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); FRANCE (79%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2004



131 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 2; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 314 words

HEADLINE: Wanted: One Resident Genius

BYLINE: By BEN BRANTLEY

 BODY:
THE strength and joy of New York theater, like that of the city itself, is its dizzying diversity, its presence as a polyglot art that ranges from the Broadway musical's synthetic smoothness to the yelping idiosyncrasy of confessional performance pieces in cramped lofts. Which is why any single troupe or institution that might take up residence at ground zero is unlikely to mirror the collective vitality of the city's theaterscape. That includes the excellent, appropriately legacy-conscious Signature Theater Company, which focuses on a different American playwright each season and is a current front-runner in the ground zero cultural sweepstakes. 
 For me, the ideal -- and who knows if this is remotely practical in economic terms -- would be to have a theater space run by a super impresario-cum-booking agent who would cull from the rich smorgasbord of productions in the city that are limited to short, self-contained runs and have little chance of commercial afterlife. Every season provides its sad quota of such shows. Looking back over the last decade, I can only wonder that shows as vibrant as Christopher Durang's ''Betty's Summer Vacation,'' Diana Son's ''Stop Kiss'' and, from the past winter, the exquisite revival of Michael John LaChiusa's ''First Lady Suite'' all had such fleeting existences before being consigned to that limbo where good plays go until enough time has passed to make them officially revivable. How wonderful to have a theater that would extend the accessibility of such shows, while helping turn ground zero into a mecca for the theatrically savvy. Of course, the project would require a manager with the energy, tenacity and connoisseur's appetite that, say, Harvey Lichtenstein brought to his 32-year tenure as the president and executive producer of the Brooklyn Academy of Music. Has anyone, by the way, asked Mr. Lichtenstein for his ideas?


GRAPHIC: Photos: The cultural components proposed for ground zero haven't captured the city's imagination, and officials who will make the choice may be ready to start over. (Photo by Vincent Laforet/The New York Times)
CBGB on the Bowery: could we have bohemian enclaves rather than high-culture hothouses? (Photo by Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)
At Symphony Space on the Upper West Side, music, dance, theater and film come together. (Photo by Associated Press)
 The Pompidou Center has become a beehive of cultural activity for Paris. (Photo by Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (90%); MUSICAL THEATER (89%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); MUSIC (77%); DRAMA LITERATURE (73%); THEATER (73%); TERRORISM (59%) Theater; Area Planning and Renewal; World Trade Center (NYC); Freedom Tower (NYC); Terrorism

PERSON: Ben Brantley

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); PARIS, FRANCE (59%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (59%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2004



132 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 4; Book Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 219 words

HEADLINE: Liebling's Wrath

 BODY:
 To the Editor:
 In her otherwise delightful review of Alison Rose's ''Better Than Sane'' (May 9), Stacy Schiff unwittingly perpetuates an old canard about the New Yorker editorial offices as a haven for ''congenital unemployables.'' 
Call me hypersensitive, but as the person who occupied Alison Rose's cubicle for 21+years before she did, I object. The New Yorker as I knew it, from 1957 until 1978, was a haven for no such thing. The remark, as I recall, was made by A. J. Liebling, not about the editorial assistants -- who were, after all, helping to get out a weekly magazine -- but about the mailroom, which, for a period in the late 50's and early 60's, did indeed harbor a couple of chaps who would have found it difficult to obtain gainful employment elsewhere. The persons whose regular screw-ups earned Liebling's wrath were an elderly, tottery, forgetful+Irishman and a cranky sexagenarian from Queens; after the Irishman died and the cranky fellow left, a rethinking of the hiring practices in the mailroom brought in younger and generally more reliable help.
 The 100 or so librarians, receptionists, researchers, proof-readers, copy editors, secretaries and typists+employed as editorial assistants seemed to me to be experiencing none of the difficulties that Liebling's phrase implies.

Janet Groth
New York


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); LIBRARIANS (75%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (68%); LITERATURE (65%) Books and Literature

PERSON: Janet Groth; Alison Rose; Stacy Schiff

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2004



133 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 6-6-04: CONSUMED; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: Brewed Awakening?

BYLINE: By Rob Walker. 
E-mail: consumed@nytimes.com.

 BODY:

Fair Trade Coffee
Producers of goods and services face a daunting range of potential ethical missteps: damaging the environment, outsourcing jobs, mistreating workers. But what about the ethics of Joe Consumer? Or, to take a particular case, a joe consumer. Your morning cup of coffee happens to be an ideological battleground over the ethics of the global economy. The world-market price of coffee has fallen so low that, according to a nonprofit called TransFair USA, millions of third-world farmers are being crushed by unfair competition and cannot survive. Coffee sellers who buy beans at the cheapest price are simply following the ruthless logic of markets: if they pay more, they have to raise prices -- and risk losing customers. But rather than agitate for some kind of international legislative solution, TransFair has devised a strategy that depends, ultimately, on consumer ethics.
 The idea is that if you buy coffee -- or other foodstuffs like tea, chocolate and fruit -- with a ''Fair Trade certified'' label, you know that farmers at the other end of the consumption chain have been fairly compensated. Since 1999, when TransFair started its strategy, sales of such coffee, which can cost twice as much as Folger's, have grown from 2 million pounds to a projected 27 to 30 million pounds in 2004. TransFair's president, Paul Rice, is justifiably proud that thousands of small farmers are able ''to put food on the table, to keep their families together'' as a result. 
 Some people suggest, in fact, that consumer ethics are on the rise. In April, the consulting firm Wirthlin Worldwide put out a report noting that 82 percent of consumers it surveyed said that ''corporate citizenship'' has at least some influence on their buying decisions. Marc Gobe, a brand consultant and the author of a book called ''Citizen Brand,'' insists that a sea change is under way, partly because, he says, ''We live in a society where everybody feels guilty.'' 
 Perhaps. But here's another way to look at it: the United States imported 2.8 billion pounds of coffee last year. Even if you just look at premium coffee, which TransFair says is a 500-million-pound market, Fair Trade accounts for only 5 or 6 percent of sales. This is not a supply problem; Rice says that farmers who are already certified could easily produce three times as much coffee as they do now, which would in turn attract more farmers -- if the demand was there. 
 And that's just one product. How many Fair Trade buyers also stick to free-range chicken? How many eschew all clothes or electronics made in unsavory conditions abroad too? How many are, on top of that, ''carbon neutral'' (or even know what that means)? The answer is, obviously, a lot closer to 0 percent of all consumers than 82 percent. 
 In defense of the modern shopper, sorting out and taking sides on even a few issues would be a major undertaking. The Rocky Mountain Institute, a nonprofit consultancy, helps companies promote ''sustainable consumption,'' which means producing things in ways that take into account all the consequences to society and nature. But getting consumers to think systemically is not easy; more immediate issues -- price, for example -- often guide day-to-day decisions. 
 Rice figures that only a small percentage of Fair Trade buyers are motivated primarily by a desire to do good, ''even if it means a certain element of self-sacrifice.'' If Fair Trade goes mainstream, he says, it will be because of the larger group that wants great-tasting coffee and food but doesn't want ''to feel as if they're contributing to someone's misery.'' Gobe makes a similar point when he notes companies boosting sales by, say, supporting breast-cancer research. ''We want to do good, but we don't want to get out of the house,'' Gobe explains. ''A brand can help us feel good -- if you buy this yogurt, you don't have to make any other effort. You just buy it.'' 
 So that's it? We just buy ourselves some ethics? This seems to let us off the hook a little too easily. Yet Rice is optimistic. Maybe opting for the Fair Trade version of an everyday purchase is a first step. Consumers, he says, are a ''sleeping giant'' that could reconfigure markets by dint of their demands -- if they would only wake up and smell the coffee. 


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Philippe Lardy)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHICS (92%); COFFEE & TEA (90%); COFFEE MARKETS (90%); COFFEE (89%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); OUTSOURCING (78%); CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (78%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); POULTRY (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (70%); WRITERS (62%) Coffee; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Third World and Developing Countries; International Trade and World Market; Advertising and Marketing; Consumer Behavior

ORGANIZATION: FAIRTRADE LABELLING ORGANIZATIONS INTERNATIONAL (55%) TransFair USA (Orgn)

PERSON: Paul Rice; Rob Walker

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2004



134 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine Desk; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 6-6-04; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1088 words

HEADLINE: The Price Of Parsimony 

BYLINE: By Adrian Nicole LeBlanc. 
Adrian Nicole LeBlanc is the author of ''Random Family: Love, Drugs, Trouble and Coming of Age in the Bronx,'' which recently won the Anisfield-Wolf Book Award.

 BODY:
My anxiety about spending money reared up one day when I was walking down the aisles of a C-Town in the Bronx. I was a few years into the fieldwork for a book I was writing on inner-city poverty, living on less than a quarter of the salary I'd earned at my last proper job. That afternoon, I was trailing my book's main subject, Lolli, as she bought the month's groceries. She was a teenager, pregnant, homeless and already the mother of two children. Her young family subsisted on food stamps and vouchers from the federal subsidy program, WIC. The shield of my judgment rose when she passed right by the C-Town weekly discount flier and made her way down the dirty aisles with her shopping cart. She just grabbed things -- packs of chicken legs and pork chops, bags of sugar and rice, bottles of vegetable oil; in went cans of beans and tins of Spam. I stood, stunned, as she reached for the individual-portion cartons of juice -- with their brightly colored miniature straws -- ignoring the larger, economy-size bottles. No calculation of unit price, no can'ts or shoulds or ought-not-to's, no keen eye to the comparative ounce. By the time her stuffed cart reached the checkout line, my unease was turning into anger. Didn't she know she was poor? 
 I cared deeply for Lolli and had spent months calculating the intricate effort she put into her daily survival. But money is a repository of unprocessed emotion, a symbol not only of one's relationship to the world but also of one's relationship to oneself. Later I realized that part of what I had felt was envy; neither I nor my mother had ever shopped like that. My mother never felt that we could afford it, and my own inability to spend freely stemmed from the immense guilt I felt at benefiting from my parents' deferral of their desires. 
 I'd grown up in a union family. Being working class -- in Massachusetts, in the 60's, anyway -- meant that it was possible to scrimp and save your way to a measure of economic safety, to imagine a future that included more than trying to survive. My mother's laserlike shopping skills were a source of rueful family humor. On double-coupon day, she could whittle $120 worth of groceries down to $60. The Mecca of college and the need to pay for it provided the justification for leaving many mundane yearnings unmet -- it was why we made popsicles instead of running after the ice cream truck; why we headed straight for the clearance racks; why the friends of shortsighted parents got to splash their way through the summer season in their aboveground pools. And when we were indulged, which was not infrequently, it was always with an eye to the future: savings went to piano lessons and summer camps and even restaurants, so we would feel comfortable in a restaurant world. ''Go explore,'' my mother would say when we went out to eat. Whenever we teased my mom about the vinyl coupon purse she carried, my normally mischievous father would chastise us: it represented hours and hours of worry and caution, tedious labor and her rightful fear for the family's vulnerability. And insofar as college was concerned, my parents' strategy of self-abnegation worked. The hidden cost was the hunger Lolli's actions in the supermarket suddenly wakened in me. 
 A while after my experience in C-Town, Lolli's stepfather received a $70,000 check after winning a lawsuit and burned through the money in a matter of months. By then, however, this sort of abandon made perfect sense. Holding onto the money placed him in physical danger; he'd also have to field an endless litany of heartbreaking requests from family and friends. Putting it in the bank wasn't practical, because he might lose his disability benefits if the government knew of his assets; for the same reason, he couldn't invest the money legally, which left him especially vulnerable to scams. The smartest thing was to treat it like the windfall that it was -- like hitting the lottery.
 I gushed over the sight of that stunning check -- $70,000! He gave everyone Christmas gifts and bought furniture. He proudly repaid his brother twice over for a $10,000 overdue debt and covered the costs of his girlfriend's sister's funeral in style. When he offered to buy me a leather coat, I declined, but I knew I wanted one. I happily accompanied him on cab rides to buy takeout: he didn't have to struggle down the street with his cane, and I was as glad for the change of pace. Only once did I caution him, on New Year's, after he handed a livery cabdriver $20 for a $5 trip. But when he said, ''It makes me feel like a man,'' I understood. By that point in his life, he'd given up hoping for a different future. I'd given up believing in a different future for him, too.
I no longer think envy was the chief emotion at work in me that day in C-Town. It wasn't that Lolli didn't know she was poor; it was that she couldn't see her way to being anything but. Perhaps it was the justness of her disregard for the future that shocked me to the core -- the surrender of tiny, mitigating hopes; perhaps I instinctively realized at that moment that the plodding strategies that had saved me could never do enough good for her. At the same time, Lolli's lack of concern for the very details that had governed my mother's existence had brought home to me the cost of fierce industriousness. I had wanted to believe that my mother's extraordinary investment in her children hadn't consumed her small pleasures, that the denial of her ordinary needs hadn't taken a toll on her.
 When should we forgo momentary pleasures? When is it at last safe to stop striving and relax into what we have? For my family, the respite from effort came when my father was dying of cancer. On the one hand, the money my parents had saved over the years now meant everything: they could pay for whatever the insurance didn't cover; their college-educated daughter could effectively lobby for the best doctors and call upon her well-connected friends for the necessary medical advice. During this time, there was only one crisis, and it was my father's health: the cars never broke down, and if a bill was paid late, the lights still stayed on. We weren't going to be evicted. On the other hand, all that mattered for us was being with my dad and fulfilling his immediate needs. For the first time in her life, my mother shopped for taste and pleasure and convenience. When she hurried to the grocery store -- reluctant to be away from my father for even half an hour -- her coupon file remained in the drawer.


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Alyson Aliano)Chart: ''SPENDING: THE HIDDEN TRUTH''Household Expenditures by Income Lowest 20% Middle 20% Highest 20%Average annual expenditures: $19,061 $36,881 $79,199Food away from home: 1,042 1,998 4,554Food at home: 2,144 3,073 4,528Meats, poultry, fish, eggs: 575 779 1,091Fruits and vegetables: 381 536 809Housing: 6,640 11,743 24,541Transportation: 3,285 7,472 13,769Health care: 1,402 2,506 3,262Entertainment: 813 1,644 4,608Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics, Consumer Expenditure Survey 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US WOMEN INFANTS & CHILDREN PROGRAM (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); MATERNAL & CHILD HEALTH PROGRAMS (75%); CHILDREN (75%); MOBILE FOOD SERVICES (75%); TRENDS (73%); NUTRITION (73%); CITY LIFE (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); ICE CREAM (71%); PERSONAL FINANCE (70%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (64%); FROZEN DESSERTS (62%); RETAIL COUPONS (56%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (55%) Food; Consumer Behavior; Welfare (US); Food Stamps; Social Conditions and Trends; United States Economy; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Diet and Nutrition; Personal Finances

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

PERSON: Adrian Nicole Leblanc

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2004



135 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; SOAPBOX; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: Island Needs the Young and the Old

BYLINE: By PAUL ARFIN. 
Paul Arfin is president and chief executive of Intergenerational Strategies, a Hauppauge-based nonprofit group.

 BODY:
A TREMENDOUS generational divide is rapidly forming on Long Island. This divide will cause economic and social problems unless it is addressed.
 Long Island's population is aging rapidly. The New York Metropolitan Transportation Council projects a 45 percent increase in the 65-plus population over the next two decades. A 2003 poll reports that 57 percent of Long Islanders nearing retirement plan to remain here. 
 Meanwhile, our younger population is rapidly declining. Our population of 20- to 35-year-olds is decreasing at a rate five times faster than the nation as a whole. Our business associations report that businesses are going begging in recruiting and attracting younger workers.
 Long Island is the 15th largest market in the country in its buying power; our food and beverage store sales per household rank highest in the nation; sales per household for health and personal store items rank second; our purchases per household of household electronic and appliance rank sixth; and the Island ranks No.10 in purchases of food service and drinking per household.
 How will young people afford this very high standard of living with rising costs of housing, taxes, health care, energy, gasoline for our cars and tuition payments? How will they pay for the rising costs of invaluable governmental programs like Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid as the pool of young workers declines and the number of older adults who have left the labor pool increases?
 On the social side, we are growing apart, what with the boom in age-segregated elderly retirement communities, elderly housing and assisted living quarters. Age stereotyping results from a lack of contact among the generations. Children and older adults need one another. Elders pass on traditions and wisdom to the young. The young transmit hope and enthusiasm to the elderly. They need to be together. If we don't provide more intergenerational housing developments, we will continue to segregate young and old.
 So what's to be done? Part of the solution lies in public leadership and civic activism. We need more elected officials to advocate for changes to our zoning ordinances. We need our civic associations to use their influence to sway local politicians about these economic and social conditions just as they do when they want a traffic light, increased police protection or rehabilitation of a blighted area. We need our Rotary clubs, chambers of commerce and churches to join the campaign for affordable housing. We need these groups to support the Balboni-DiNapoli Workforce Housing Initiative bill, which would require localities to set aside 10 percent of new housing units for work-force housing.
 We can also create home-sharing programs in which older homeowners needing either companionship or practical help receive what they need in exchange for providing affordable living space to well-screened, reliable low-income individuals. Such programs operate throughout the world, but none exist on Long Island. The programs use existing housing stock more efficiently and could reduce the need to build new housing units.
 Our public and private schools should establish aging education curriculums to expand children's understanding of the life cycle and their appreciation for the wonders of older adulthood and the opportunities for creativity and freedom that it offers. Schools, religious organizations and libraries need to create programs that foster intergenerational communications.
 Last, but not least, we should create new opportunities for older adults to get involved in public service. Their knowledge and life experiences could be invaluable in addressing some of our social ills by advocating for changes needed in our public policies. In addition, too many of our service organizations are begging for volunteers to help them serve their communities while some school district budgets are defeated because fearful older adults vote them down. If more older adults were involved in our schools they might be more supportive of school programs.
 We have a responsibility to future generations to address these issues and challenges. Let us move forward to think and act intergenerationally. By so doing, we can assure a better life for generations to come. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POPULATION SIZE (90%); AGING TRENDS (90%); TRENDS (90%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); AGING (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (88%); CHILDREN (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); ASSISTED LIVING SERVICES (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); ZONING (77%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (76%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (75%); RETAIL SALES (73%); TUITION FEES (72%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (72%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (69%); MEDICAID (68%); MEDICARE (66%); ORDINANCES (57%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Social Conditions and Trends; Aged; Children and Youth

COMPANY: NEW YORK METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION COUNCIL (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK ISLANDERS (57%)

PERSON: Paul Arfin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Long Island (NY)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2004



136 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 3; Sports Desk; CYCLING; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 686 words

HEADLINE: Americans Maneuver in a Competitive Market

BYLINE: By FRANK LITSKY

 BODY:
The best American cyclists spend most of the year racing in Europe for big dollars: millions for Lance Armstrong, six figures for Tyler Hamilton, Fred Rodriguez, George Hincapie, Bobby Julich and a handful of countrymen.
 For the other American riders, there are plenty of races at home, with modest salaries and prize money to match. Their hope is that they will catch the eye of an international team and ride in Europe.
 Chris Horner has been there and done that. From 1997 through 1999, he rode for Francaise des Jeux, a French team. Since then, he has been riding at home and waiting for another call from Europe. 
 ''I've been the No. 1 U.S. domestic rider the last three years,'' he said by telephone last week. ''I'm the great American hope.''
 Then he laughed.
 ''I'm 32, so make that the great American middle-aged hope,'' he said. ''But in this sport you're usually good until you're 36 or 37.''
 Horner is good right now. He has won 13 multiday or one-day races this year. Over the years, he has won almost every American major race except the United States pro championship, and he will go after that in today's 156-mile race in Philadelphia.
 In a field with international teams like the United States Postal Service (without Armstrong), CSC of Denmark and Saeco of Italy, Horner is one of the favorites. At 5 feet 11 inches and 150 pounds, he has the efficient frame for cycling. He also has a single-minded approach.
 ''It's hard work,'' he said. ''There's some natural ability there to sustain it and recover from it, but it comes down to whether you are really willing to sacrifice the other parts of your life.''
 Cycling has been Horner's obsession since boyhood in San Diego. He got his first road bike at 13, ''a clunky 10-speed Schwinn Sprint.'' He started racing at 15, joined the circuit at 20 and turned pro at 24. In an ever-changing world of teams coming and going, he has ridden for Mercury, Prime Alliance and Saturn. Now he rides for Webcor, which is sponsored by a California general contractor.
 He said his highest salary had been $110,000 a year and was less now. He has a one-year contract.
 ''When you're on a one-year deal,'' he said, ''by March you're always thinking about next year. If the team grows, you want to stay. I love this team, but if I have an opportunity to race in Europe I wouldn't mind doing another three years there.
 ''The team directors prefer to get a rider who's 22, and then if he makes good they can say: 'I got this guy. I nurtured him. I made him who he is.' But what it boils down to is that if you get a young guy and he's good, you're going to have to pay him anyway.''
 Good logic or not, Horner knows the market is tight.
 ''I haven't heard from any big teams yet,'' he said. ''The cycling economy is not that good. Even a team like the Postal Service is looking for a new sponsor.'' 
 Many people depend on Horner's racing success. He lives in Bend, Ore., with Aisha Gaut, his companion of 10 years; their daughters, Aarica, 6, and Kali, 4; and their son, Garett, 2. He is the captain of the Webcor team. One teammate, Charles Dionne, won the 2000 San Francisco Grand Prix, beating Armstrong, among others. Dionne is an unabashed fan of Horner's.
 ''He's by far the smartest guy on the bike,'' Dionne said. ''He's got the capacity to read the race. He's in the right place at the right moment. I think he'd do great in Europe. He could compete anywhere.''
 On Tuesday in Lancaster, Pa., and Thursday in Trenton, Horner helped Dionne finish high in the races that precede the Philadelphia race each year. In this team-oriented sport, turnabout is fair play.
 ''Sunday,'' Horner said, ''will be my day.''

SHIFTING GEARS
 MAX VAN HEESWIJK, a Belgian who rides for the United States Postal Service, won the race in Lancaster, Pa., and FRED RODRIGUEZ, an American who rides for Aqua y Sapone of Italy, won in Trenton. . . . Today's $135,500 race in Philadelphia has attracted 174 professionals from 20 teams, and the accompanying $52,000, 57.6-mile Liberty Classic has drawn 184 women from 28 teams. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CYCLING (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); SPORTS AWARDS (78%); POSTAL SERVICE (50%) Bicycles and Bicycling

COMPANY: FRANCAISE DES JEUX (71%); UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (71%); SIC3999 MANUFACTURING INDUSTRIES, NEC (71%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (55%); SIC4513 AIR COURIER SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: LANCE ARMSTRONG (92%) Frank Litsky; Chris Horner

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (94%); FRANCE (79%); DENMARK (58%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2004



137 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Commencement Speeches; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 3408 words

HEADLINE: Threats to Rights and Financial Barriers to Poor Are Cited at Graduations

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON

 BODY:
Ted Koppel warned of a rising threat to basic constitutional rights. The president of Amherst College decried the increasing financial barriers that the poor face in obtaining a college education. Robert Redford said America was on the brink of a moral crisis comparable to Watergate and the Iran-contra scandal because of the growing ''political gains of not telling the truth.''
 Many commencement speakers brought a somber mood to college campuses this spring, issuing warnings about perils like censorship, worsening inequality and eroding civil liberties.
 E.L. Doctorow, the prize-winning novelist, drew boos at Hofstra University on May 23 when he portrayed President Bush as a storyteller specializing in untruths. ''I thought it was a matter of urgency and of my own conscience,'' Mr. Doctorow said. ''There's no sense just giving them homilies and pieties about following your star or that kind of stuff. The policies of this administration are things that we should talk and think about.'' 
 Several members of the Bush administration told inspirational stories about the American military.
 Speaking at West Point, Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld hailed the heroics of a 2001 graduate of the academy, Lt. K.C. Hughes, who, after being shot in the shoulder in an insurgent attack last year in Iraq, helped evacuate six members of his platoon.
 ''The civilized world will win the global war against terror because of people like Lieutenant Hughes,'' Mr. Rumsfeld said.
 Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, seeking to dramatize his call for students at Wake Forest University to ''do the right thing,'' chose a different kind of war hero, the military policeman who blew the whistle on the abuse of prisoners at the Abu Ghraib prison in Iraq.
 The military policeman, whom Mr. Powell did not name, ''knew something wrong was happening and he spoke out,'' he said.
 Scores of actors, comedians, athletes, newscasters, authors, executives and other commencement speakers steered clear of politics, focusing instead on words of exhortation, counsel and caution.
 At least three speakers quoted Woody Allen's famous advice, ''Eighty percent of success is showing up.''
 Hillary Rodham Clinton, speaking at Manhattanville College, quoted Bob Hope, who once told graduates, ''Look around this beautiful campus -- don't leave!''
 Jon Stewart, the comedian, told students at William & Mary that as a college student he had suffered from ''terrible acne.''
 ''But what I lacked in looks I made up for with a repugnant personality,'' he said.
 The filmmaker Peter Farrelly returned to Columbia University, where as a student two decades ago he received an interest-free loan after a sympathetic professor noticed that he was working three jobs and was behind in his coursework. In his address this year at Columbia's School of the Arts, Mr. Farrelly had his daughter pick five students' names from a bowl, and each student received a check for $3,600, the value of the loan he received in 1984, adjusted for inflation.
 But dozens of speeches centered on explicit or implied criticism of Bush administration policies, in Iraq and elsewhere. 
 Following are other excerpts:

Toni Morrison
Author
Wellesley, Massachusetts
 I'm sure you have been told that this is the best time of your life. It may be. But if it's true that this is the best time of your life, then you have my condolences. Because you'll want to remain here, stuck in these so-called best years, never maturing, wanting only to look, to feel and be the adolescent that whole industries are devoted to forcing you to remain. One more flawless article of clothing, one more elaborate toy, the truly perfect diet, the harmless but necessary drug, the almost final elective surgery, the ultimate cosmetic all designed to maintain hunger for stasis. While children are being eroticized into adults, adults are being exoticized into eternal juvenilia. There is nothing more satisfying, more gratifying than true adulthood. The process of becoming one is not inevitable. Its achievement is a difficult beauty, an intensely hard-won glory, which commercial forces and cultural vapidity should not be permitted to deprive you of.

Anthony W. Marx
President, Amherst College
Amherst, Massachusetts
 Our great colleges and universities have hit a wall of blocked opportunity. At our top colleges, only one-tenth of our students are drawn from the poorer half of the population, only 3 percent from the bottom quarter. In our society, economic disparities have been growing, not declining. They have grown also in these educational institutions that are supposed to be a source of redress. The assumptions we all once made of steady progress in this country have proven false: Our nation and our colleges are moving toward an inequality not seen since before the Great Depression. 

Madeleine K. Albright
Former Secretary of State
Duke, Durham, N.C.
 One of the most moving stories to come out of Sept. 11, 2001, involved a passenger on United Flight 93, which went down in Pennsylvania. That passenger, Tom Burnett, called his wife from the hijacked plane, having realized by then that two other planes had crashed into the World Trade Center.
 ''I know we're going to die,'' he said. ''But some of us are going to do something about it.'' And because they did, many other lives were saved. Since that awful morning, the memory of their heroism has inspired us. It should also instruct us. Because when you think about it, ''I know we're going to die,'' is a wholly unremarkable statement. Each of us here this morning could say the same. It is Burnett's next words that were both matter-of-fact and electrifying: ''Some of us are going to do something about it.''
 Those words, it seems to me, convey the fundamental challenge put to us by life. We are all mortal. What divides us is the use we make of the time and opportunities we have.

Dick Cheney
Vice President
Florida State, Tallahassee, Fla.
 I know it's the custom for graduation speakers to draw from their experiences. There's one very practical lesson that comes immediately to mind. I learned that in the year 2000, when President Bush called to ask if I would help him find a running mate for vice president. The lesson is: If you're ever asked to head up an important search committee, say yes.

Bill Cosby
Actor
Wilkes, Wilkes-Barre, Pa.
 Many of you have not thought about paying bills. You have thought about making bills and you've thought about contributing to some bills you want to make: $200 on a $23,000 car. That's your contribution. Your parents will pick up the tab and your parents are confused, really. All they thought was they would get married, have you, help you to get through high school and then into college and then you would graduate, get married, have grandchildren and they could die. They're still alive and you're still going to school. And what's even worse, they can't die, because they have to stay around another 30 years and co-sign for you. I know you sound pitiful, but that's the way you look to me.

David E. Davis Jr.
Founder, Automotive Magazine
Michigan, Ann Arbor
 In October of 1955, when I was 24 years old, and quite pleased with myself, I managed to get my race car upside down during a national championship race at Sacramento, Calif. My head was caught between the back of the seat and the pavement, and I was dragged along that way for about thirty yards, until the car struck another obstacle and flipped back onto its wheels. When the car finally came to a stop, I had lost the eyelids on my left eye, the bridge of my nose, the roof of my mouth, and all but a half-dozen of my teeth. I had 130 compound fractures of my upper and lower jaws. It took a team of reconstructive surgeons and dentists 18 months to rebuild my face. I was uglier than a mud fence. I actually frightened children and caused traffic accidents. I had come as close to death as one can be, and I had survived. I understood with great clarity that nothing in life -- except death itself -- could ever kill me. No meeting could ever go that badly. No client would ever be that angry. No business error would ever bring me as close to the brink as I had already been. With that knowledge, I was not only born again, I was bulletproof. I could do anything, and if I failed, I failed.

Barbara Ehrenreich
Author
Barnard, Manhattan
 You saw them, too, the photos of American soldiers humiliating and abusing detainees in Iraq. These photos turned my stomach -- yours too, I'm sure. But they did something else to me: They broke my heart. I had no illusions about the U.S. mission in Iraq, but it turns out that I did have some illusions about women.
 All we had to do to make the world a better place -- kinder, less violent, more just -- was to assimilate into what had been, for so many centuries, the world of men. We would fight so that women could become the generals, the C.E.O.'s, the senators, the judges and opinion-makers and that was really the only fight we had to undertake. Because once they gained power and authority, once they had achieved a critical mass within the institutions of society, women would naturally work for change. What I have finally come to understand, sadly and irreversibly, is that the kind of feminism based on an assumption of female moral superiority is a lazy and self-indulgent form of feminism. It is not enough to be equal to men, when the men are acting like beasts. It is not enough to assimilate. We need to create a world worth assimilating into.

Jon Stewart
Comedian
William and Mary, Williamsburg, Va.
 Lets talk about the real world for a moment. I wanted to bring this up to you earlier about the real world, and this is, I guess, as good a time as any. I don't really know how to put this, so I'll be blunt. We broke it. Please don't be mad. I know we were supposed to bequeath to the next generation a world better than the one we were handed. So, sorry. I don't know if you've been following the news lately, but it just kind of got away from us. Somewhere between the gold rush of easy Internet profits and an arrogant sense of endless empire, we heard kind of a pinging noise, and uh, then the thing just died on us. So I apologize. 
 But here's the good news. You fix this thing, you're the next greatest generation, people. And even if you don't, you're not going to have much trouble surpassing my generation. If you end up getting your picture taken next to a naked guy pile of enemy prisoners and don't give the thumbs up, you've outdid us. 

Julius L. Chambers
Director, Center for Civil Rights
North Carolina, Chapel Hill
 If you were black, living in Mount Gilead, your parents would not be hired in any position at the local mill, and if they were fortunate enough to land a job at the local lumber company, they could rise no higher than the lowest-paying and most menial jobs. You could not travel far from home unless you had family and friends along the way because you could not be accommodated in public accommodations; you could not count on being able to buy gas; and if you used public transportation you would be segregated in an undesirable space and could be put off the bus along the way as I was in traveling from Durham, from North Carolina Central, to my hometown in Mount Gilead. You probably went to the county's own black public schools; your textbooks had been used. If you had a dream, as I did, of attending the university in 1954, you were turned down solely because of your race. I grew up in this segregated environment.

Robert Redford
Actor
Bard, Annandale-on-Hudson, N.Y.
 Years ago I had the advantage of making a film that dealt with Watergate. And I spent four years. because I thought it was important to illustrate investigative journalism. It had not been done on film yet, and I thought that was new territory to explore. I just happened to inherit a pretty great platform dramatically. But it was also about how close we came to losing First Amendment rights. And now I realize that many of the systems of checks and balances that were in place then, now have been infected by everything from media consolidation, to greed, to limited ideologies and the worst of all, apathy.

Walter Isaacson
Author, ''Benjamin Franklin''
Tufts, Medford, Mass.
 We had to get France in on our side in the Revolution. Even back then the French were a little bit of a handful. So they sent old Dr. Franklin, now in his 70's, over to France to try to woo them. He built a printing press at his house near Paris, and printed the Declaration of Independence so that all the people in France could see what we were fighting for; the idea of liberty, and an aversion to tyranny and inequality. France ended up being caught up in the appeal of America's values. and they joined our cause. And without them, we would not have won the Revolution. They supplied 90 percent of the gunpowder, the Marquis de Lafayette had as many troops at Yorktown as General Washington did. It is the appeal of America's values and the vision of statesmen like Jefferson and Franklin who were willing to engage in a war of ideas that won our freedom. They realized that ideas had power, and that the power of America's ideals and values would prove stronger even than our weapons.

George Soros
Investor
Columbia School of International and Public Affairs, Manhattan
 By succumbing to fear we are doing the terrorists' bidding: we are unleashing a vicious circle of violence. If we go on like this, we may find ourselves in a permanent state of war. The war on terror need never end because the terrorists are invisible, therefore they will never disappear. And if we are in a permanent state of war we cannot remain an open society. 

Samuel L. Jackson
Actor
Vassar, Poughkeepsie, N.Y.
 You will, undoubtedly, meet people who will try to shut you up or entice you to compromise your principles in any number of ways. They'll try to seduce you and distract you with money, power, security and perhaps, most dangerously, a sense of belonging. Don't let them; it's just not worth it. One of the biggest threats to our world is the culture of silence and compromise -- politicians who compromise their beliefs because they're scared they'll piss off their voters and won't get re-elected, corporate executives who put profits above principles. You can have a conscience and still make money. You can have genuine values and still get elected. You can even make movies that do well at the box office without playing to the lowest common denominator. 

Ted Koppel
News Commentator
California, Berkeley
 More than likely, the use of a chemical or biological weapon in a terrorist attack against the U.S. homeland would lead to the imposition of martial law. There is a direct correlation between the perception of threats to America's security and the contraction of our rights and freedoms. We need to critically examine the nature and scope of those threats; and where they exist, we must be prepared to calibrate our rights and freedoms. If we fail to do that now, at a time of relative sanity then we will have condemned ourselves to having those choices made in a climate of national hysteria.

Barry Meyer
Chairman and C.E.O., Warner Brothers
Rochester, New York
 What happened at the Super Bowl half-time show was inappropriate and should be deemed such. It must not be used as an excuse to launch us down the slippery slope of restricting legitimate expression. And neither should political expedience. Somewhere it has been decided that the public's tender eyes must be shielded from the sight of flag-draped coffins returning from Iraq. And now there's talk of controlling the public's right to see graphic evidence of atrocities in Iraq. Why? Is it too depressing? Too sad and emotional? Too inflammatory? Doesn't the American public have the right to have its emotions stirred by words and pictures, and isn't limiting that right in any way a very risky and dangerous proposition?

Colin L. Powell
Secretary of State
Wake Forest, Winston-Salem, N.C.
 Do the right thing, even when you get no credit for it. Do the right thing when no one is watching or will ever know about it. You will always know. Our nation is now going through a period of deep disappointment, a period of deep pain over some of our soldiers not doing the right thing at a place called Abu Ghraib. I spent a good part of my time in Jordan this past weekend dealing with this problem and the terrible impact it has had on our image in the world. I told the audiences that I spoke to over the weekend that all Americans deplored what happened there and there could be no excuse. But I also told them that one soldier had done the right thing. He knew something wrong was happening and he spoke out. He told his commanders, who immediately began an investigation. 

Condoleezza Rice
National Security Adviser
Vanderbilt, Nashville
 If you've not yet found your passion, keep searching. You never know when it will find you. The chancellor was nice enough to say that I once had a chance at a great career in concert music. Well, of a sort. I was pretty good, but I realized I wasn't great. And I thought, I'm going to end up teaching 13-year-olds to murder Beethoven, or playing piano bars someplace or playing at Nordstrom -- I'm not going to play Carnegie Hall. And I did find a passion, and it happened to be Russia. What was a nice girl from Birmingham doing studying Russia? Well, it has changed my life.

William Schulz
Executive Director
Amnesty International USA
Grinnell , Iowa
 You need not love your enemies. You certainly ought not allow them to harm you. But you risk your own destruction if you deprive them of their most basic dignity. We've learned that all too well in the last two weeks with the reports of the torture of the Iraqi prisoners. What could possess young Americans to hold someone under water until he almost drowned? To sic dogs on naked, cowering prisoners? The soldiers had no training, we are told, but what training ought we need to reject such behavior other than the training we ought to have received at our mothers' or fathers' knees?

Vicki Escarra
Executive Vice President, Delta Airlines
Agnes Scott, Decatur, Ga.
 When I was tapped by Ron Allen to run Delta's 315 airports around the world, I walked into a work group that was more than 80 percent male. I was replacing a much-revered man named Marty Brams. I remember my first week on the job, as I was getting acclimated, a guy named Dave Huss approached me and said, ''You can't even carry Marty Brams's jockstrap!'' To which I replied, ''This may surprise you, but I don't want to!'' 
 I can tell you this story now because Dave Huss later became one of my greatest supporters. But, I had to earn his respect through hard work, an open mind and good listening skills. Remember that respect is a two-way street. You cannot expect to become a leader worth following if you don't respect those around you.

David Halberstam
Author
Skidmore, Saratoga Springs, N.Y.
 I suspect that you in the audience may look at us upon the stage and see people who seem like we have always succeeded. Would that that were true. What you do not see is our own anxieties. You do not see me, at the moment a few days short of my 22nd birthday, when the editor of the smallest daily in Mississippi came and told me that it was time for me to leave, that in fact he would pay me for the last day and that he wanted me to be gone from the office and from the town by the next morning. He had already hired my successor who was scheduled to show up the next afternoon and he didn't think it a good idea if we overlapped. Fired, as it were, from the smallest daily in Mississippi after less than a year as a journalist. What an auspicious way to start a career!

David S. Tatel
Judge, United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia
Macalester, St. Paul, Minn.
 Too many Americans seem not even to grasp the bedrock principles of American democracy. Asked in a survey to list the freedoms protected by the First Amendment, 41 percent of adults were unable to identify free speech; 84 percent were unable to identify freedom of religion. In the last presidential election, 40 percent of those eligible to vote did not even bother to do so. And following the tragedy of Sept. 11, too many Americans seem willing to accept the notion that protecting the homeland requires sacrificing the very rights that lie at the heart of our constitutional system -- rights that make this nation both unique and worth preserving.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Jon Stewart, center, host of ''The Daily Show'' on Comedy Central, receiving an honorary doctorate of arts at the College of William & Mary in Williamsburg, Va. (Photo by Associated Press)
(Photo by Associated Press)
(Photo by Associated Press)
 (Photo by Gary W. Meek) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (78%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (77%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (75%); WRITERS (75%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (73%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (72%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (72%); TERRORISM (70%); CENSORSHIP (70%); WAR ON TERROR (69%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (66%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (66%) Colleges and Universities; Colleges and Universities; Colleges and Universities; Colleges and Universities; Colleges and Universities

ORGANIZATION: WILLIAM & MARY COLLEGE (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (59%); WAKE FOREST UNIVERSITY (59%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (59%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (59%); FLORIDA STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (59%); VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY (59%); HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (57%) Amherst College; Wellesley College; Duke University; Florida State University; Wilkes University; University of Michigan; Barnard College; William & Mary College; University of North Carolina; Bard College; Tufts University; Columbia University; Vassar College; University of California; Rochester Institute of Technology; Wake Forest University; Grinnell College; Agnes Scott College; Skidmore College; Macalester College; Vanderbilt University

PERSON: JON STEWART (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%); DAVID S TATEL (59%); GEORGE SOROS (56%) Sam Dillon; E L Doctorow; Colin L (Sec) Powell; Toni Morrison; Anthony W Marx; Madeleine K Albright; Dick (Vice Pres) Cheney; Bill Cosby; David E Jr Davis; Barbara Ehrenreich; Jon Stewart; Julius L Chambers; Robert Redford; Walter Isaacson; George Soros; Samuel L Jackson; Ted Koppel; Barry Meyer; Condoleezza (Nat Security Adviser) Rice; William Schulz; Vicki Escarra; David Halberstam; David S Tatel

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%); WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (66%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2004



138 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 400 words

HEADLINE: Philippine Leader Is Re-elected, Watchdog Says

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: MANILA, June 5 

 BODY:
A Philippine election watchdog group said Saturday that its unofficial count showed President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo had won a fresh term by narrowly beating a film star, Fernando Poe Jr., with 39 percent of the votes to his 37 percent.
 The official tally from a May 10 general election will not confirm the winner of the presidential race until at least mid-June, but counts by the National Citizens' Movement for Free Elections have proved accurate in the past.
 The group's count of 79.21 percent of the ballots cast took four weeks. A senior election official leaked results on May 24 that indicated that Ms. Arroyo had defeated Mr. Poe by about three percentage points. Some analysts and members of the opposition disputed the National Citizens' Movement for Free Elections' results. 
 ''We neither declare a winner or a loser,'' said the citizen group's secretary general, Guillermo Luz. ''Our job and our mandate is quite simply to provide advance results, and that I think we have done.'' 
 The watchdog group said it had to leave seven million votes uncounted because of technical problems, discrepancies with official numbers, and some illegible returns. It said it would deliver its final report on the election on June 30, the day the new government must be sworn in.
 Some analysts have expressed doubts, though, about its results because its count was so slow. They also have questioned the impartiality of its officers. 
 An opposition senator, Aquilino Pimentel, raised questions about Mr. Luz's citizenship, contending that he was a Canadian citizen. Under Philippine laws, a foreigner is prohibited from interfering in or participating in any election.
 Three other presidential contenders split the rest of the ballots. Filipinos also voted for a vice president, half of the 24-seat Senate and 17,000 posts at all levels of government.
 Mr. Poe, whose camp has accused Ms. Arroyo's administration of cheating, has declared himself the winner, keeping the political temperature high in a country that has had two ''people power'' uprisings and nine coup attempts in the last 18 years.
 Ms. Arroyo, an American-trained economist with a mixed track record, faced a one-day mutiny by junior officers last July. She rose from vice president in January 2001 when Joseph Estrada was ousted as leader after street protests. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (74%); COUPS (74%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (67%) Elections; Election Results; Politics and Government; Frauds and Swindling

PERSON: GLORIA MACAPAGAL-ARROYO (90%) Gloria Macapagal (Pres) Arroyo; Fernando Jr Poe

GEOGRAPHIC: MANILA, PHILIPPINES (79%) PHILIPPINES (96%); UNITED STATES (79%) Philippines; Philippines

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2004



139 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; SUNDAY MONEY: INVESTING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1128 words

HEADLINE: Why Overseas Buyers Steer Clear of U.S. Stocks

BYLINE: By CONRAD DE AENLLE

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
PALTRY recent returns may be causing many American investors to lose enthusiasm for the stock market. But foreigners began to desert Wall Street even before stocks started to sell off early this year. In fact, they had been shunning the American market for much of the post-recession rally, put off by valuations they considered excessive and by concern that a growth spurt in the economy would not last as long as many American analysts expected.
 Foreign investors are often wrong about the American market: for example, they shoveled money in just before stocks plummeted in 2000. So their viewpoint cannot be taken as gospel. Still, many global equity strategists and investment advisers say that it is now sensible for Americans as well as foreigners to be looking for opportunities in stock and bond markets outside the United States. While they counsel American investors to retain the bulk of their stock holdings in the domestic market, they say that this may be a good time to lighten up on the usual amounts. 
 ''I'm no macroeconomic expert, but it appears to me that you can make a reasonably convincing case for not buying in the U.S.,'' said Liam Pagliaro, head of research at Gartmore Investment Management in London. The Gartmore Worldwide Leaders fund, its flagship global mutual fund for Americans, had 31 percent of its portfolio invested in the United States as of March 31, according to Morningstar. Europe accounted for 29 percent and Japan, 25 percent.
 Two of the five largest holdings in the fund were Japanese: the Mitsubishi Tokyo Financial Group and Nissan Motor. Two were American: Goldman Sachs and the Apache Corporation, an oil exploration company. Rounding out the top five was Credit Agricole, the French bank.
 Other large foreign holdings included Vivendi Universal, the French media company, and Shell Transport and Trading, the British company that owns 40 percent of Royal Dutch/Shell.
 Alan Brown, the London-based chief investment officer of State Street Global Advisors, also has doubts about the American economy's ability to grow strongly after so much effort has been expended to keep it moving ahead. He cited the ''triple stimulus'' -- a lower dollar, higher government spending and lower interest rates -- and asked: ''Is the patient going to stand up or fall back? At the moment we're still wrestling with that one.''
 With the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index trading at 21.1 times trailing 12-month earnings, compared with its average of 15.6 since 1935, Mr. Brown said stocks were likely to produce only modest gains over the medium to long term. ''When you look out five, six, seven, eight years, you're looking at highish single-digit returns, not returns in the high teens,'' he said.
 That appears to be insufficient incentive for foreign acquirers to put money into the United States. Foreign buyers accounted for just $5.6 billion, or 2 percent, of the $291.6 billion that companies agreed to spend in the first quarter on takeovers of American businesses, according to Thomson Financial.
 Interest from Europe, especially, has been scant; the announcement last month by the Royal Bank of Scotland of its planned acquisition of Charter One Financial appears very much an exception. European companies accounted for just 1 percent, by value, of first-quarter acquisitions in the United States, Thomson's figures show.
 Tom Elliott, global equity strategist at J.P. Morgan Fleming Asset Management in London, said that high American valuations could be a deterrent to foreign investment. He said companies overseas might also be concerned about the long-range impact of the twin American deficits.
 ''Recession, or relatively slower growth than the rest of world, and inflation seem the logical way out of the trade and budget deficit problems, respectively,'' Mr. Elliott said.
 The lack of interest in United States stocks isn't found only among executives who swallow companies whole. Net foreign purchases of American stocks totaled about $37 billion last year, the lowest since 1996, according to TrimTabs Investment Research. 
 Mr. Elliott had been bullish on stocks, but last month, he advised investors to reduce their exposure, particularly to American blue chips, saying that ''risk, valuation and liquidity indicators have all, to some degree, deteriorated over the last month.'' The main reason for the change is his belief that interest rates will be raised faster than he had expected.
 Mr. Elliott and his colleagues at Morgan recommend being underweight in shares of large American companies and in emerging markets, and being overweight in smaller American stocks and in Japan.
 ''We remain of the view that the equity market is still undervalued, relative to the material improvement in the economy and the significant earnings power of the domestic corporate sector,'' a Morgan strategy report said of Japan.
 The J.P. Morgan Fleming International Equity fund, which invests exclusively in foreign stocks, had 72 percent of its assets in Europe at the end of March, Morningstar reported, and 22 percent in Japan. Among its largest holdings were the European oil companies Total and ENI and three companies based in Britain: HSBC, the big bank; Vodafone, the mobile-phone service provider; and GlaxoSmithKline, the drug maker.
 Mr. Brown of State Street said that there were ''no easy choices'' open to investors today. He declined to discuss individual stocks but said that a sound portfolio for Americans would be 65 percent invested in stocks, compared with the 60 percent equity allocation that he considers neutral.
 The bulk of the equities, 47 percent of the total portfolio, would be placed in the domestic market, less than the 50 percent he would ordinarily recommend for American investors. Of the other 18 percent reserved for equities, he would put 4 percent in Europe, 9 percent in the developed Pacific markets of Japan, Hong Kong and Australia and 5 percent in emerging markets, mainly in Asia.
 UNDER typical market conditions, Mr. Brown would recommend keeping 40 percent of a portfolio in bonds, much of it in municipal bonds -- especially for New Yorkers and residents of other high-tax regions who are investing in accounts that are not tax-deferred. But because he expects interest rates to rise, he thinks it best to pare that to 30 percent.
 American investors should typically limit their bond holdings to the United States, Mr. Brown added, but because he is concerned that the dollar will resume its decline of the last few years, he would allocate 5 percent to European bonds. The remaining 5 percent of the portfolio would be in cash.
 Summing up his investment posture, he said, ''I think it is more a question of being defensive and avoiding losses than aggressively seeking return.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Some strategists suggest foreign stocks like Nissan of Japan as defensive plays for Americans. Tokyo shoppers viewed a Nissan Fairlady Z (350Z in the United States). (Photo by Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); BONDS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); US DOLLAR (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RECESSION (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); EXECUTIVES (65%); INTEREST RATES (50%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Foreign Investments

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (83%); MITSUBISHI UFJ FINANCIAL GROUP INC (82%); HENDERSON GROUP PLC (67%); APACHE CORP (66%); VIVENDI (65%); NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (54%); CREDIT AGRICOLE SA (53%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); RDSA (LSE) (83%); RDSA (AMS) (83%); RDS.B (NYSE) (83%); RDS.A (NYSE) (83%); MTU (NYSE) (82%); 8306 (TSE) (82%); HGG (LSE) (67%); HGG (ASX) (67%); APA (NYSE) (66%); VIV (PAR) (65%); VIV (BIT) (65%); 7201 (TSE) (54%); ACA (PAR) (53%); ACA (BIT) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (83%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (83%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (82%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (82%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (66%); SIC1381 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (66%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (66%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (65%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (65%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (65%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (54%)

PERSON: Conrad De Aenlle

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (69%) UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2004



140 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 78

LENGTH: 2489 words

HEADLINE: The Maestro Slips Out Of Tune

BYLINE: By Paul Krugman. 
Paul Krugman is a Times columnist and a professor at Princeton. His latest book is ''The Great Unraveling: Losing Our Way in the New Century.''

 BODY:
The time has come, in my judgment, to consider a budgetary strategy that is consistent with a pre-emptive smoothing of the glide path to zero federal debt or, more realistically, to the level of federal debt that is an effective irreducible minimum.'' Translation: Go ahead and cut taxes.
 With those words, delivered in Senate testimony on Jan. 25, 2001, Alan Greenspan -- revered during the 1990's as the nonpartisan architect of America's prosperity -- inserted himself decisively into politics, on the side of George W. Bush. The chairman of the Federal Reserve didn't specifically endorse Bush's plans, but his words were exactly what Bush needed. Before Greenspan's testimony, many political observers questioned whether the victor in a disputed election could get an enormous, controversial tax cut through Congress. After Greenspan spoke, much of the resistance collapsed. 
 Yet in retrospect we know that Greenspan's ''judgment'' -- that tax cuts were needed to prevent excessive budget surpluses -- was a misjudgment of Rumsfeldian proportions. In fact, the United States is headed for a budget deficit of more than $400 billion this year, more than half of it a result of tax cuts passed since Greenspan gave Bush his support. 
 Greenspan is still a figure of enormous prestige and power; he is to economic policy what J. Edgar Hoover once was to law enforcement. After 17 years as Fed chairman, Greenspan has become an icon, and it's hard to imagine America without him; indeed, last month the president nominated him for a fifth term. Yet his reputation is not what it once was. At the height of the boom, he was the monetary maestro whose advice was sought on many aspects of economic policy. Now his record as a monetary leader has been called into question, and his judgment on fiscal policy has been proved disastrously wrong. Worse, he seems to have abandoned the long tradition that places the Fed above the political fray.

The Making of a Maestro: Greenspan is, without question, a very smart man. He has also been very lucky.
 He had the good fortune to follow an illustrious predecessor. Paul Volcker assumed office at a time of double-digit inflation. During Volcker's eight years as Fed chairman, he tamed inflation and steered the world through a major financial crisis, then oversaw a powerful economic recovery. On becoming chairman in August 1987, Greenspan inherited both a healthy economy and an office whose prestige had never been higher. 
 He enhanced that prestige with his deft handling of the stock market crash of October 1987. Still, in the early 1990's few would have considered Greenspan a great Fed chairman. When the economy stalled in 1990, Greenspan's Fed was caught by surprise and was too slow to react by cutting interest rates. What resulted was a nasty if brief recession that, among other things, ensured the first George Bush's electoral defeat. (Some Wall Street analysts suggest that the second George Bush delayed Greenspan's latest reappointment to pressure him to keep interest rates low until after the election.) 
 But then came the great boom.
 Greenspan jump-started that boom by cutting interest rates once he realized that the economy was weakening, but any Fed chairman would have done the same thing. After the recovery began, he again followed standard operating procedure. William McChesney Martin, who was Fed chairman from 1951 to 1970, famously said that the Fed's job is to take away the punch bowl just when the party really gets going -- that is, to raise interest rates and slow down a booming economy before the boom turns into an inflationary spiral. Greenspan dutifully raised interest rates through 1994.
 But as the boom continued and the unemployment rate dropped to new lows, he did something unexpected: nothing.
 Around 1994, some businessmen began talking about a ''new economy,'' in which old rules no longer applied. In the 70's and 80's, an unemployment rate below 6 percent signaled an overheating economy, on the verge of inflation. The new-economy advocates claimed, however, that this was no longer true -- that thanks to accelerating productivity growth and increased competition, it was possible to run much closer to full employment without a takeoff in inflation.
 Unlike most economists at the time, Greenspan took those claims seriously. And sure enough, the optimists were right. Over the next six years unemployment fell to 4 percent, a level not seen in 30 years, yet inflation remained quiescent. Greenspan didn't create the economic miracle of the 90's, but -- to his great credit -- he didn't stand in its way. And his name therefore became associated with the boom.

Bubble Trouble: ''But how do we know when irrational exuberance has unduly escalated asset values, which then become subject to unexpected and prolonged contractions, as they have in Japan over the past decade?'' Greenspan asked this question in December 1996, expressing his concern that a bubble was developing in the stock market. He had reason to think so: traditional measures of stock valuation, like the price-earnings ratio, were rapidly moving off the charts, and investor psychology was already starting to remind those who knew economic history of the 20's.
 Greenspan's ''irrational exuberance'' speech was clearly intended to caution the markets. Soon afterward, he raised interest rates slightly, again with the clear intention of sending a warning signal to investors. But then he backed off. There were no more rate increases, and Greenspan began lauding the economy's achievements. Bad call: his first instinct was right. It was a bubble, after all.
 Critics say that by letting the bubble develop unchecked, Greenspan set the stage not just for future market losses but also for trouble in the economy as a whole. Greenspan counters that the Fed can't target stock prices the way it targets inflation, because you can't know whether a bull market is a bubble until it bursts. The Fed, he says, should not consider asset prices part of its brief. Is he right? 
 When the bubble burst, the United States' economy went into recession, just as critics of Greenspan's inaction feared. Still, if he had been able to lead our economy into a quick, decisive recovery, his position would have been clearly vindicated. But though recovery was quick -- the recession of 2001 officially lasted only eight months -- it wasn't decisive. On the other hand, if the economy had fallen into a Japan-type deflationary trap, Greenspan would have been proved clearly wrong. That didn't happen, either. Over the last few months, the recovery has finally started to look like the real thing. We seem to have avoided a Japan syndrome, at least this time.
 On balance, I think the critics are right and Greenspan is wrong. We avoided becoming Japan after the bubble burst, but it was a near miss: with interest rates down to 1 percent, the Fed had almost run out of ammunition before the economy turned around. And even if the economy is finally on the mend, over the last three years millions of American workers lost their savings or suffered the indignity and financial hardship of prolonged unemployment -- pain that could have been avoided if Greenspan had burst the bubble before it grew so big. 
 But this argument will probably go on forever. Fifty years from now, economic historians will still be arguing over whether Greenspan's performance as monetary manager deserves an A or a B-. What they won't argue about is Greenspan's culpability for America's plunge into deficit. 

The Partisan Chairman: In the first days of the Bush administration, as we've seen, Greenspan gave decisive aid and comfort to the new president, urging Congress to cut taxes in order to prevent excessive budget surpluses. Three years and at least $900 billion in additional debt later, that argument seems ludicrous. And besides giving bad advice, Greenspan was engaging in highly questionable behavior. Since then, rather than make amends, he has compounded the sin.
 As an institution, the Federal Reserve is set up more like the Supreme Court than like an ordinary government agency. Members of the Federal Reserve Board serve for long terms; chairmen typically serve across several administrations from both parties. There's a reason for this: economists often argue that the Fed, like the Supreme Court, must be insulated from the political process so that it can make necessary but unpopular decisions. The quid pro quo for this insulation, however, is that the Fed must stand above the political fray. Like Supreme Court justices, the members of the Fed board undermine the rationale for their independence if they use their power for partisan purposes.
 So was that 2001 testimony partisan? Yes. Greenspan argued on the basis of budget projections -- which he must have known are notoriously unreliable -- that the federal government would pay off all its debt in a few years. If this happened, the government would be forced to invest future surpluses in the financial markets -- which, he argued, would be a bad thing. To avoid this outcome, he claimed, surpluses had to be reduced with tax cuts.
 It was a peculiar, tortured argument, full of holes. For example, partial privatization of Social Security -- which Greenspan supports -- would impose ''transition costs'' in the trillions of dollars, easily taking care of the supposed problem of excessive budget surpluses. As many warned at the time, Greenspan was also completely wrong about the budget prospect -- projections of huge surpluses quickly gave way to projections of huge deficits. 
 Above all, Greenspan's fear-of-surpluses argument was at complete odds with what he had said in the past. All through the Clinton years, Greenspan preached the virtues of fiscal restraint, and he did not change his views when the budget deficits of the 80's and early 90's vanished. Just six months before his 2001 testimony, Greenspan saw no problem with large projected budget surpluses. ''The Congress and the administration,'' he said in July 2000, ''have wisely avoided steps that would materially reduce these budget surpluses. Continued fiscal discipline will contribute to maintaining robust expansion of the American economy in the future.'' But then a Republican entered the White House, brandishing a tax-cut proposal -- and Greenspan suddenly developed an elaborate theory of why it was necessary to reduce those surpluses, after all.
 Any doubts that Greenspan holds George Bush to different standards than he held Bill Clinton were dispelled in the years that followed. He didn't call for a reconsideration of the 2001 tax cut when the budget surplus evaporated. He didn't even offer strong objections to a second major round of tax cuts in 2003, when the budget was already deep in deficit.
 Since then, Greenspan has gone back to warning against the evils of budget deficits. But he still hasn't called for a reconsideration of recent tax cuts; on the contrary, he has endorsed Bush's plan to make the tax cuts permanent. Instead he calls for spending cuts, emphasizing the need to trim Social Security benefits. I went back to testimony Greenspan gave in February 2001; sure enough, he assured nervous senators that tax cuts would not threaten future Social Security benefits. 
 But it's even worse than that. Before Greenspan became Fed chairman, he headed a commission that recommended changes in Social Security to secure its future. The most important recommendation, adopted by Congress, was for an increase in the payroll tax -- a regressive tax that falls much more heavily on lower- and middle-income families than it does on the well-off. The ostensible purpose was to generate a surplus within the Social Security system, building up a trust fund to pay benefits once the baby boomers retire. 
 That was the bait; now Greenspan has pulled the switch. The sequence looks like this: he pushed through an increase in taxes on working Americans, generating a Social Security surplus. Then he used the overall surplus, mainly coming from Social Security, to argue for tax cuts that deliver very little relief to most people but are worth a lot to those making more than $300,000 a year. And now that those tax cuts have contributed to a soaring deficit, he wants to maintain the tax cuts while cutting Social Security benefits. He never said, ''Let's raise taxes and cut benefits for working families so that we can give big tax cuts to the rich!'' But that's the end result of his advice.
 Why did he do it? There are two possible interpretations. The more generous one is that he never gave up the ideals of his younger days. Into his 40's, Greenspan was an acolyte of Ayn Rand, the libertarian novelist and philosopher, and Greenspan has never repudiated his Randian association. Nonetheless, during the Clinton years he came to be viewed as a moderate. Maybe that was a mask, and all those years he was just waiting for an opportunity to use the prestige of his office to undermine the hated institutions of the welfare state.
 The less generous interpretation is that Greenspan simply abused his position to help his friends. Kenneth Thomas, a finance professor at the Wharton School, has calculated that Greenspan visits the White House about once a week, as The Christian Science Monitor reported last month, and that is almost four times as often as he did when Clinton was president. 
 Part of the genius of George Bush's political operatives is their ability to persuade people (Colin Powell, Tony Blair) to betray their principles, to say and do things they will later regret, in support of a presumed shared cause. Paul O'Neill, Bush's first treasury secretary, falls into the same category: he was a moderate Republican who for a time played good soldier, defending the Bush tax cuts despite private qualms, to help the new president -- a man he thought shared his values -- by giving him an early political victory. And guess what: O'Neill was a close friend of Greenspan's. 
 According to Ron Suskind's book ''The Price of Loyalty,'' written with O'Neill's cooperation, Greenspan told O'Neill that a tax cut without triggers -- that is, conditions that would cancel the cut if projected surpluses didn't materialize -- was ''irresponsible fiscal policy.'' Yet Greenspan never made a forceful public case against a trigger-free tax cut, perhaps because he did not want to make trouble for his friend O'Neill. And by the time he realized just how irresponsible the tax cut really was, he was trapped -- too deeply associated with the administration's policies to change course without losing face.
 Either way, Greenspan did something remarkable. After becoming a symbol of America's economic turnaround in the 90's, and anointing himself the nation's high priest of fiscal probity, he lent crucial aid and comfort to the most fiscally irresponsible administration in history. In the end, that will be his most important legacy.


GRAPHIC: Photo: It didn't take long for Greenspan to show that he would hold Bush to different standards than he held Clinton. (Photograph by Larry Downing/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); BUDGETS (91%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); TAX LAW (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); POLITICS (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); BONDS (72%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (70%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (68%); INTEREST RATES (50%) United States Economy; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Stocks and Bonds; Taxation; United States Economy; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); PAUL KRUGMAN (68%) Paul Krugman; Alan (Chmn) Greenspan; George W (Pres) Bush; Paul Volcker

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2004



141 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 673 words

HEADLINE: Koreas Agree to Open a Cross-Border Road and Rail Links

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE

DATELINE: TOKYO, June 5 

 BODY:
North and South Korea agreed Saturday to open their first cross-border road and rail links by October, as South Korea announced that it would extend a 400,000-ton rice ''loan'' to North Korea.
 These promises for greater economic cooperation followed a military agreement on Friday to dismantle propaganda billboards and loudspeakers mounted by the rival nations decades ago in the demilitarized zone.
 To avoid clashes over rich crab fishing grounds, both navies agreed to set up a telephone hot line, to share an emergency radio frequency and to institute a mutual naval flag signaling system.
 The economic and military announcements seem to presage growing inter-Korean cooperation, fueled in part by the growing political power of South Korea's liberals. On Monday, President Roh Moo Hyun is to address the first session of a new liberal-controlled National Assembly. In elections two months ago, his Uri Party won a majority, the number of members who are women doubled and the average age of members dropped by a decade. 
 The inter-Korean cooperation provides a rare dynamic element in a security panorama frozen by regional opposition to North Korea's nuclear bomb program. 
 China has offered to hold another round of talks on North Korean denuclearization in two weeks for envoys from North and South Korea, China, Japan, Russia and the United States.
 On Saturday, Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld warned that protracted diplomatic negotiations were giving North Korea time to develop nuclear weapons, raising the risk that they would fall into the hands of terrorists.
 ''Needless to say, time works to the advantage of North Korea,'' he said at an international security conference in Singapore. ''Assuming their behavior is to continue their programs, the longer it takes the more dangerous presumably their capabilities would become.''
 But as the talks approach their first anniversary this summer, North Korea is marking time, awaiting the outcome of the United States election. Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts, the presumptive Democratic candidate, has said he would retain a regional approach, but would emphasize talks between the United States and North Korea.
 With expectations low this summer for talks, regional attention focuses on new steps on the Korean peninsula toward cooperation.
 Under the economic agreement announced Saturday in Pyongyang, the North Korean capital, the authorities would by October open two north-south roads -- one on the east coast, the other on the west coast. 
 Also by October, freight trains would make test runs on two north-south railroads that parallel the roads. The rail links would definitively open in 2005, five years after they were promised in the June 15, 2000, summit meeting in Pyongang between leaders of North and South Korea.
 Also by the end of this month, authorities are to establish a joint agency to administer a South Korean-financed industrial park in Kaesong, six miles north of the demilitarized zone. The director is to be South Korean and the first 15 South Korean companies are to open factories in the park in coming months.
 With the electricity, financing, management and most materials to come from South Korea, the main attraction is cheap labor. Northern workers will work for 13 percent of Southern rates, and trade unions are strictly controlled by the communist state. With many South Korean companies now investing more money overseas than at home, South Korea plans to bring hundreds of labor-intensive companies to the new park.
 ''South Korean firms should relocate their labor intensive industrial facilities, not just to the Kaesong Industrial Complex, which is now being constructed, but throughout the whole of North Korea,'' the Bank of Korea governor, Park Seung, said in a speech on Thursday in New York. Noting the North's low wage rates and corporate tax rates, he said, ''There is a very good case for Korean firms to take full advantage of these points by relocating production to North Korea rather than to China or Vietnam.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); NAVIES (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); CRUSTACEANS (76%); SHELLFISH FISHING (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); POLITICS (74%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); ELECTIONS (74%); LIBERALISM (74%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); TRAINS (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (72%); TRENDS (70%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (70%); FOREIGN POLICY (70%); TERRORISM (66%); ANNIVERSARIES (62%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (60%) Fish and Other Marine Life; Fishing, Commercial; Crabs; Foreign Aid; Credit; Radio; Hot Lines; Telephones and Telecommunications; Flags, Emblems and Insignia; Economic Conditions and Trends; Roads and Traffic; Railroads

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%) James Brooke

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (69%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTHERN ASIA (93%); CHINA (92%); JAPAN (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); SINGAPORE (79%) North Korea; South Korea ; North Korea

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2004



142 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; SundayBusiness; MARKET WEEK; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 448 words

HEADLINE: Will the G-8 Look Beneath The Surface?

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
WHEN the leaders of the Group of 8 industrial nations meet this week, financial markets are likely to be most interested in what isn't discussed. 
 President Bush will be host for the session, the group's 29th annual meeting, at Sea Island, Ga., from Tuesday through Thursday. 
 There is always the chance of a surprise, but analysts say the meeting, which will encompass a range of financial and political subjects, will probably include a lot of mutual congratulations about the state of the world economy. 
 John Lipsky, chief economist at J.P. Morgan Securities, noted that expansive monetary and fiscal policies in many of these countries had bolstered their economies. 
 ''Global growth in the first half of the year will be the strongest in the last 16 or 17 years,'' he said. ''In that sense, the outlook for the principal economies is much better than it was a year ago.''
 But the markets should pay closer attention to a structural problem, said Stephen Roach, chief economist at Morgan Stanley. 
 ''The big issue they are missing is that imbalances matter,'' Mr. Roach said. ''We have massive trade and budget deficits in the United States and huge surpluses in Asia. I am not trained to wave a wand over these huge imbalances and say this is the way the world works now.'' 
 If Mr. Roach had his way, the leaders would focus on two things: ''The United States needs to be called to task for running reckless monetary and fiscal policies and fostering an environment that has allowed consumers to live well beyond their means. And the rest of the world has to be called to task for failing to stimulate domestic demand.''
 By accentuating the positive and ignoring or playing down the negative, he said, the leaders are ''whistling past the graveyard.'' 

AN UNPLEASANT REMINDER -- On Friday, a day after the summit meeting ends, markets will get their monthly reminder of the depth of the nation's merchandise trade deficit.
 Consensus estimates call for a slightly smaller deficit -- $44.9 billion for April, compared with $46 billion for March. Matters would be worse if not for the weak dollar, though it does little to ease the nation's reliance on foreign capital to finance its trade bill.

INFLATION UPDATE -- A decline in oil prices, among other changes in economic barometers in recent days, has blunted some of the financial markets' concerns about inflation.
 Still, the markets will probably react unfavorably if a report due on Friday for May producer prices shows higher-than-expected increases. 
 The consensus forecast is for a gain of 0.5 percent in the overall Producer Price Index, and an increase of 0.2 percent for the core rate, which excludes prices of food and energy.


GRAPHIC: Graph ''Balance of Trade'' tracks the deficit since 2003. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); PRODUCER PRICES (88%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); TRENDS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); US DOLLAR (73%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (71%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (71%); MONETARY POLICY (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); BONDS (68%); FOOD PRICES (63%); OIL & GAS PRICES (63%) Stocks and Bonds; Economic Conditions and Trends

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (93%) Group of Eight

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%)

PERSON: Kenneth N Gilpin

GEOGRAPHIC: GEORGIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2004



143 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Political Points; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1331 words

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY

 BODY:

W.M.'s Seek S.F.'s For Fall Affair
 Forget the gender gap. This election there is a bigger and sexier divide on the minds of Democratic strategists: the marriage gap. They are determined to get single voters to the polls this November, no matter how much underwear they have to distribute to do it.
 The underwear -- panties and boxer shorts with slogans like ''Kiss Bush Good-Bye'' -- was selling briskly Thursday night at the Reef, a nightclub in Washington packed with hundreds of people looking for both romantic and political fulfillment. This ''Singles Against Bush'' mixer, the precursor to more than a dozen other mixers across the country this week, is part of a larger campaign to turn out voters who could have put Al Gore in the White House if they had found time in their social schedules to get to the polls. 
 For all the talk about the gender gap last election, the 11-point edge that Mr. Gore had among female voters was actually smaller than the 13-point gap between married and unmarried voters. Married men favored George W. Bush by 20 points, and their wives favored him by one point. Single men favored Mr. Gore by 2 points, and single women gave him an enormous 31-point advantage, 63 percent to 32 percent.
 That partisan gap remains this year, with single women favoring Senator John Kerry by 21 points over Mr. Bush in the latest New York Times/CBS News poll. But the problem for Democrats is that single women don't vote as consistently as married women do. More than 20 million of them sat out the last election. 
 ''Women on their own have the largest potential for growth in both registration and turnout of any demographic group,'' said Page Gardner, co-director of a nonpartisan group, ''Women's Voices. Women's Vote,'' which is working to register single women in a dozen states. 
 Meanwhile, more partisan groups are using less traditional methods to get out what has been called the ''Sex and the City'' vote. Besides the mixers, there are new versions of Tupperware parties being promoted by another group, Axis of Eve. It calls them PantyWare parties, in honor of its own line of lingerie adorned with political slogans. 
 ''We will be swapping tales of Bush deceit and inventing political strategies rather than trading recipes and plastic containers,'' explains the invitation to a party in Chicago this Wednesday. ''Guests will leave with a PantyWare party favor that includes information about both local and national politics and activist tools for exercising outrage.''
 Republicans seem disinclined to respond to these new tactics. ''I can't comment on the panty thing,'' said Terry Holt, a spokesman for the Bush campaign, but he did offer to explain the marriage gap. ''Married people have high rates of home ownership and often have children in school,'' he said. ''As people's stake in the economy grows and as they become more established in their community, they tend to become more Republican.'' They also, perhaps, become less interested in underwear.

Modern Lessons From Middle Ages
 When he met at the Vatican with Pope John Paul II, a firm opponent of the war in Iraq, President Bush might have wished for a return to really Old Europe. In the medieval era he could have found a sympathetic ear in Rome. The medieval popes shared his desire to fight in the Middle East, as well as his frustration at getting European leaders to take up the cause.
 The reluctance then, as now, involved domestic politics. European rulers were initially enthusiastic about papal calls for crusades and saw their cause not as imperialistic but as defensive, a war to win back Christian lands that had been conquered by the expanding Muslim empire. After initial successes in battle, though, they found that occupation was much tougher than conquest and that the years spent fighting to hold on to foreign lands left them vulnerable to rivals back home.
 France's Louis VII returned from the Holy Land in 1149 to a truly serious domestic problem: his wife, Eleanor of Aquitaine, left him for England's Henry II and transferred her duchy, which covered nearly a third of France. Then Eleanor's son and heir, Richard the Lion-Hearted, lost the lands while he was off on his own crusade.
 In the 13th century, France's Louis IX had to contend with a foretaste of today's Gallic antiwar movement when his advisers implored him to stop crusading and concentrate on his responsibilities at home. He ignored their advice, and lost his life when the plague swept through the crusaders' camp.
 Venice's commercially minded rulers often managed to make crusading profitable by transporting pilgrims to the Holy Land, but other leaders found the wars a costly burden and political danger.
 ''Monarchs would often respond to the popes' calls by saying they were going on a crusade because that's what a good and chivalric Christian king should do,'' said Thomas F. Madden, a professor at St. Louis University who has written histories of the crusades. ''There were numerous leagues -- coalitions, we might call them today -- gloriously proclaimed to fight the growing Turkish threat to Europe's east. But when it came down to actually crusading, frequently only the Venetians would show up, which meant that they faced the wrath of the Turks all alone. By the 15th century, none of the European monarchs trusted one another enough to leave their kingdoms to crusade.''
 Is there a lesson in this for modern-day warriors in the Middle East? ''Fighting enemies abroad may be the right thing to do,'' Professor Madden said, ''but beware of those at home who will punish you for it all the same.''

Polls, Schmolls -- The Cookies Are In
 Somewhere, Laura Bush and Teresa Heinz Kerry may be silently cursing Hillary Rodham Clinton, but they have nonetheless succumbed to the cookie cook-off. How could they duck a campaign contest with a perfect record of predicting the next occupant of the White House?
 The cook-off began in 1992, after an appearance on ''60 Minutes'' in which Mrs. Clinton defended her career outside the home by saying dismissively, ''I suppose I could have stayed home and baked cookies and had teas.'' To placate America's homemakers, she accepted a challenge from Family Circle magazine and provided an oatmeal chocolate chip recipe that beat out Barbara Bush's chocolate chip cookies. Her recipe triumphed again in 1996, when readers voted for it over Elizabeth Dole's pecan roll cookies.
 Laura Bush prevailed over Tipper Gore's ginger snaps with her Texas Governor's Mansion Chocolate Cowboy cookies, an oatmeal chocolate chip concoction that included flakes of coconut and pecans. This year she has modified the recipe, replacing the coconut and pecans with sour cherries and walnuts. Mrs. Heinz Kerry is going with pumpkin spice cookies.
 The recipes will be published in the July issue of Family Circle, and the results of the voting won't be announced until October. But we have an exclusive preview for you, thanks to Marian Burros, a food writer at The New York Times who has tasted all the previous entries. She baked this year's batches on Thursday and was not impressed.
 ''Hillary Clinton's cookies are still the most flavorful and the best,'' she said. ''This year's contestants are reputedly good cooks, but I can't imagine making either cookie again. There's nothing wrong with them technically, but they don't rise above perfectly pleasant. They're boring. The pumpkin spice cookies need more spices. And lovers of chocolate chip cookies will find the cherries off-putting, not to mention hard to find. Even those who stay home and bake have better things to do than go on a treasure hunt for dried sour cherries.'' 
 Ms. Burros was loath to get involved in the all-important political question of which lady will be voted by the magazine's readers into the White House. But when pressed, she predicted it would be Mrs. Bush simply because of her conservative choice of ingredients: ''There are a lot more chocoholics in the world than pumpkinholics.''


CORRECTION-DATE: June 13, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A report in the Political Points column last Sunday about efforts by Democrats to get more single voters to the polls in November gave an erroneous credit for a poll showing that single women do not vote as consistently as married ones. It was a CBS News poll, not a New York Times/CBS News poll.

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Illustrations by Stephen Savage) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); WOMEN (78%); LINGERIE (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (76%); BAKERIES (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); BAKED GOODS (64%) Presidential Election of 2004; Single Persons; Women; Public Opinion; Bakeries and Baked Products; Presidential Election of 2004; Cookies; Presidential Election of 1992

COMPANY: GARDNER CO (64%)

ORGANIZATION: Family Circle (Magazine)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (64%); SIC1542 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS, OTHER THAN INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS & WAREHOUSES (64%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%); JOHN F TIERNEY (78%); AL GORE (78%) John Tierney; John (Sen) Kerry; Hillary Rodham (Sen) Clinton; Laura Bush; Teresa Heinz Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2004



144 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; ART; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1407 words

HEADLINE: The Venus de China

BYLINE: By BARBARA POLLACK

 BODY:
NEARLY 30 years ago, a college professor tried to alter my jaded stance toward Richard Nixon by underscoring the importance of the former president's 1972 visit to China. ''You like art, right?'' I recall him saying. ''Well, don't you understand, can't you see, that given its 3,000-year-old history, its unparalleled standards in painting and craftsmanship, and the sheer numbers of its population, by the end of this century, China will produce some of the world's greatest contemporary artists?'' To which I replied, with all the open-mindedness of a typical American 18-year-old: ''What? Are you crazy? They'll never catch up!''
 Thirty years ago, Wang Qingsong seemed an unlikely candidate to fulfill my professor's prophecy. He was growing up in Hubei Province in central China and aspired to be a soldier in the Red Army, like many of his classmates. But fast-forward through three decades -- the Cultural Revolution, Tiananmen Square, the economic liberalization of the 1990's -- and now Mr. Wang, 38, arrives in New York as living proof that Chinese artists have indeed ''caught up.'' 
 He is here to celebrate his current show at Salon 94 on East 94th Street, where his monumental photograph ''Romantique'' has already attracted the interest of museum directors, collectors and curators. His work is also prominently featured in ''Between Past and Future: New Photography and Video From China,'' opening jointly at the International Center of Photography and the Asia Society on Friday. Organized by Christopher Phillips of the Center of Photography and Wu Hung, the specialist in Chinese art history from the University of Chicago, the landmark exhibition includes more than 100 works by 45 artists, many of whom, like Mr. Wang, have seen their careers skyrocket in the last five years.
 ''Given their relative lack of exposure, there is a surprising confidence among these Chinese artists in relation to their own culture and to the international art arena,'' Mr. Phillips said.
 This is not the first time that Chinese contemporary art has grabbed the spotlight; a first wave of so-called ''post-Mao'' artists -- Xu Bing, Cai Guo-Qiang, Chen Zhen and Fang Lijun -- met with immediate international success when their works were seen in the United States and Europe in the early 1990's. But this younger generation, inspired by digital cameras and video technology, could witness, record and participate in the vast changes in their culture during the last decade, as their country embraced McDonald's and Power Macs.
 For them, globalization is not a theoretical proposition or a curatorial strategy but a strangely surrealistic reality found right at their own front doors. ''This approach not only allows us to glimpse the complexity and richness of Chinese art traditions, it also gives us a surprising mirror view of some of our own Western obsessions,'' Mr. Phillips said. 
 Mr. Wang has turned his own case of cultural whiplash into very large-scale photographs of dazzling beauty, present-day equivalents of history paintings packed with whimsical details and dramatic effects. ''Romantique'' (2003), measuring 4 feet by 21 feet, presents a garden of earthly delights -- orange groves, lush green grass, cobalt-blue sky -- filled with more than 50 live models, all Asian, re-enacting poses found in Western art history. On the far left are Michelangelo's Adam and Eve and the quartet from Manet's ''Dejeuner sur l'Herbe.'' In the center, Botticelli's Venus rises from her clamshell, surrounded by voluptuous bathers and lounging maidens reminiscent of paintings by Ingres, Velasquez, Matisse and Gauguin. 
 But off on her own at the far right, a nude woman sits in a rickshaw. She is a concoction not found in the Western canon, yet she stares directly at the audience with all the forcefulness of a modern-day Olympia. Her presence adds a cautionary note to this otherwise bucolic scene, a warning that the new China might not be simply a picturesque paradise ripe for exploitation by foreign investors or for total immersion in Western influences. 
 While the practice of staged photography is certainly a worldwide phenomenon, Mr. Wang is sensitive to knee-jerk comparisons of his photographs to better-known images by Western artists like Gregory Crewdson and Jeff Wall. In February, during a visit to New York in preparation for the show, Mr. Wang, whose work was first shown in New York at P.S. 1 in 2002, explained in an interview that staging a photograph is nothing new in China.
 ''In reality, when I was growing up, all the photographs in the newspapers were fake, or inspired by a false reality,'' he said, relying on his wife, Fang Chang, to translate. ''So I am making photoworks, just the way those journalists reported the truth, but I want to make them more interesting, more humorous and more critical.''
 The fact that an artist working today in Beijing, where Mr. Wang lives and shows at the Courtyard Gallery, can speak of being critical and expressing his opinions demonstrates how much China has liberalized its approach to censorship. While the country is far from a democracy, freedom of expression has become increasingly ''negotiable,'' Wu Hung said. ''Since 2000, and the Shanghai and Guangzhou Biennials, things have changed,'' he said. ''There is censorship, definitely, but now local officials see the practical side for the economic and tourist industries, and they want to present their cities as modern, intellectual centers.''
 Though Mr. Wang speaks and reads no English, and, like many of his generation, could not decipher foreign art magazines, books or Web sites after they became available in China, he demonstrates a savvy grasp of consumer culture. ''There is a Chinese superstition that what you make, you will become, so I try to keep humor in my work, because my personality is already a bit bitter,'' he said. One of his early photographs -- and he began working in photography only in 1996 -- is ''Thinker'' (1998), in which he superimposed a McDonald's logo on his chest, as he sits cross-legged in a meditative pose. ''Look Up! Look Up!'' (2000) shows a small crowd of Chinese women pointing up to a luminous Coca-Cola bottle descending from the sky like an alien spacecraft. In both works, these icons of American mass-production were digitally inscribed on a realistic backdrop. But in his latest works, Mr. Wang has gone a step further, arranging huge numbers of characters in elaborate settings, created on a sound stage at Beijing Film Studio, where scenes for ''Kill Bill: Vol. 1'' were produced. To capture the entire view, he shoots a series of 8-by-10 negatives that are later combined in Photoshop. The outcome is as expansive as a literati scroll and, like that thousand-year-old tradition of Chinese painting, filled with figures embellished with symbolic meanings.
 ''Opening relations between China and the world is supposed to be a happy experience for both the Chinese and Westerners,'' Mr. Wang said, ''but most of my artworks are examining the fast pace of this modernization, which is coming too quick for the Chinese people to analyze or digest.'' 
 Tradition is very important to Mr. Wang, who is sophisticated enough to have his own English-only Web site. Born in 1966, the first year of the Cultural Revolution, Mr. Wang was the son of a soldier assigned to the oil fields in south central China, who was killed in an accident when his son was 15. To support himself, Mr. Wang also went to work in the oil fields for eight years, applying five times to the art academies before being accepted at the Sichuan Academy of Fine Arts in 1991.
 Through this combination of experiences -- traditional techniques of Chinese paintings overlaid with a deep-seated iconoclasm toward all things ''official'' -- Mr. Wang keeps his distance from dominant trends, even now as his travels in the United States and Europe present him with opportunities to acquaint himself with the latest currents in contemporary art. 
 ''I visited museums and galleries in New York, but not many and not very often, because I wanted to minimize this impact on my art,'' he said, adding with a smile, ''I was much more interested in how Flushing and Chinatown compared with China.''

'Between Past and Future: New Photography and Video From China'
International Center of Photography, Avenue of the Americas at 43rd Street, and the Asia Society, Park Avenue at 70th Street. Both Friday through Sept. 5.


CORRECTION-DATE: June 20, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article on June 6 about the photographer Wang Qingsong misidentified the artist whose representation of Adam and Eve is recreated in Mr. Wang's large-scale work ''Romantique.'' It is Masaccio, not Michelangelo. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: In Wang Qingsong's 21-foot photograph ''Romantique,'' Asian models strike poses from Western art history (including Manet, below left, and Botticelli, below right), except for the lone woman in a rickshaw. (Photos Courtesy of Salon 94 Gallery and the Courtyard Gallery) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); HISTORY (78%); ART HISTORY (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (64%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (64%); GLOBALIZATION (63%) Photography; Shows (Exhibits)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY (59%) International Center of Photography (NYC)

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (73%) Wang Qingsong; Barbara Pollack

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%) CENTRAL CHINA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); HUBEI, CHINA (58%); ILLINOIS, USA (53%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2004



145 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 10820 words

PERSON: Ronald Wilson Reagan

HEADLINE: RONALD REAGAN DIES AT 93; FOSTERED COLD-WAR MIGHT AND CURBS ON GOVERNMENT

BYLINE: By MARILYN BERGER

 BODY:
Ronald Wilson Reagan, a former film star who became America's 40th president, the oldest to enter the White House but imbued with a youthful optimism rooted in the traditional virtues of a bygone era, died yesterday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 93.
 To a nation hungry for a hero, a nation battered by Vietnam, damaged by Watergate and humiliated by the taking of hostages in Iran, Ronald Reagan held out the promise of a return to greatness, the promise that America would ''stand tall'' again. 
 Mr. Reagan lived longer than any United States president, spending his final years in seclusion as he coped with the mental debilitation of Alzheimer's disease. 
 In 1994, he touched the hearts of Americans when, in a handwritten letter, he let it be known he was suffering from the illness. ''I now begin the journey that will lead me into the sunset of my life,'' Mr. Reagan wrote. ''I know that for America there will always be a bright dawn ahead.'' 
 He died with his wife, Nancy, and his three children by his side.
 President Bush, who was in Paris for meetings with allies on the eve of the 60th anniversary of D-Day, said, ''A great American life has come to an end.'' [Page 18.]
 Mr. Bush said that under Mr. Reagan, ''America laid to rest an era of division and self-doubt, and because of his leadership the world laid to rest an era of fear and tyranny.''
 When he first entered the White House, Mr. Reagan was a vigorous 69-year-old Republican who promised a new ''morning in America.''
 He managed to project the optimism of Franklin D. Roosevelt, the faith in small-town America of Dwight D. Eisenhower and the vigor of John F. Kennedy. In his first term he restored much of America's faith in itself and in the presidency, and he rode into his second term on the crest of a wave of popularity. 
 But late in 1986, halfway through his second term, Mr. Reagan and his administration were plunged into turmoil by an effort to deal too rashly with the same kind of hostage crisis that he had accused President Jimmy Carter of handling too gingerly in Iran.
 Contrary to official policy, Mr. Reagan's subordinates sold arms to Iran as ransom for hostages in Lebanon and diverted profits from the sales to the rebels fighting the Marxist Sandinistas then governing Nicaragua. A joint Congressional investigating committee reported that the affair had been ''characterized by pervasive dishonesty and secrecy'' and that Mr. Reagan bore ultimate responsibility for the wrongdoing of a ''cabal of zealots.'' 
 The deception and disdain for the law invited comparisons to Watergate, undermined Mr. Reagan's credibility and severely weakened his powers of persuasion with Congress. Scrutiny of his appointees increased; Supreme Court nominees were rejected or withdrawn; and more of his aides were accused of ethics violations than in any other administration up until that point.
 But until the Iran-contra affair, Mr. Reagan enjoyed tremendous popularity. He used that popularity and a consummate political skill to push many of his major programs through Congress. And despite the affair, he crowned his two terms with a nuclear arms agreement with the Soviet Union that reduced the nuclear arsenals of both countries for the first time, setting the stage for a new relationship with the Soviets under the leadership of Mikhail S. Gorbachev.
 It was Mr. Reagan's good fortune that during his time in office the Soviet Union was undergoing profound change, eventually to collapse, setting off a spirited debate over Mr. Reagan's role in ending the cold war. His supporters argued that his tough policies were the coup de grace and his detractors attributed the end to the accumulated influence of 45 years of the American policy of containment. But wherever the credit was due, the thaw came on his watch.
 Mr. Reagan stood in 1987 at the Berlin Wall, the material symbol of the divide between East and West, and threw down a challenge to Mr. Gorbachev that will long be remembered. ''Tear down this wall,'' he said. ''Ttear down this wall.''
 Michael R. Beschloss, the presidential historian, said he believed that the cold war had ended more quickly under Mr. Reagan than it would have had his opponent, Mr. Carter, been re-elected in 1980.
 ''With Reagan,'' Mr. Beschloss said, ''the Soviets could no longer con themselves into thinking they would prevail in the cold war because the American people had lost their will and strength and lost their taste for confronting Soviet aggression. They were sufficiently convinced that Reagan meant business.''
 The Soviet economy, he said, was beginning to flag and Mr. Gorbachev was selected and ''charged with improving the economy and making the best deal he could with the West.''
 Mr. Reagan, meanwhile, was able to climb the rocky road back from the Iran-contra scandal so successfully that he handed over the office to another Republican, George Bush, who had been his loyal vice president for eight years.
 Mr. Reagan's public life came to an end in 1994, with the announcement of his Alzheimer's. For some time afterward, he continued to go to his office in Los Angeles and, occasionally, to play golf. But as the disease took its toll, he receded into the background while his official biographer, Edmund Morris, completed the story of his life.
 Nancy Reagan, meanwhile, spurred by her husband's suffering, became an increasingly strong advocate for embryonic stem-cell research, putting her at odds with her fellow Republicans in the White House. Many scientists believe that such research could lead to treatments for Alzheimer's and other diseases. But President Bush has limited federal spending on it, because the research involves the destruction of human embryos.
 Last month, in making a plea for more research, Mrs. Reagan said: ''Ronnie's long journey has finally taken him to a distant place where I can no longer reach him. Because of this, I'm determined to do whatever I can to save other families from this pain.''

'America Is Back'
 If the rise and fall and rise again of Ronald Reagan reads like the script of a made-for-television movie, the ''Great Communicator'' was indeed a made-for-television president. Seventy-seven years old at the end of his presidency, he never lost his boyish charm or his ability to look Americans in the eye and make many feel good about themselves. ''America is back,'' he told them, and his confidence made them confident. 
 Critics and supporters alike found it paradoxical that Mr. Reagan, who campaigned against government for most of his political life, was the man who restored popular faith in the presidency and the American government. The 40th president was a combination of ideologue and pragmatist who could compromise and still appear to be a man of unbending principle.
 His resilience and good humor after he was struck by an assailant's bullet in 1981 reinforced the public's affection for him. Gliding gracefully across the national stage with his boy-next-door good looks and his lopsided grin, he managed to escape blame for political disasters for which any other president would have been excoriated. If the federal deficit almost tripled in his presidency, if 241 marines he sent to Beirut were killed in a terrorist bombing, if he seemed to equate Nazi storm troopers with the victims of the Holocaust, he was always able to rekindle public support. He became known early on as the Teflon president.
 His Hollywood background, long considered a liability, became his greatest asset in the political arena, and he was a master at using it to captivate the American people.
 His extraordinary ability to communicate served him well until the Iran-contra affair. That is when his reluctance to deal with governmental processes, his habit of delegating authority and his failure to concern himself with facts, figures and details first became known to people outside his official family. Then a different image emerged: that of a passive president who reigned but did not rule.
 From the first moment of a political career that spanned more than two decades, Mr. Reagan was a crusader, trying to correct what he saw as the governmental excesses that began with the New Deal. He preached the gospel of self-reliance. ''Government is not the solution,'' he said over and over. ''Government is the problem.''
 Against Mr. Carter's politics of sacrifice and retrenchment, Mr. Reagan offered an America of inexhaustible resources and boundless opportunity. And indeed, under his presidency came an end to the sharp inflation of the Carter years, along with a sustained economic boom that brought prosperity to regions hit hard by recession. But huge deficits, brought on partly by tax cuts and increases in military spending, made a mockery of his campaign pledge to balance the budget by the end of his first term.
 Mr. Reagan did not change course. The America of his deepest convictions was a nation favored by God that would triumph over its adversaries abroad and its troubles at home if only it had the will to be strong and the sense to let free enterprise solve its problems. 

A 'Huck Finn Idyll'
 Those beliefs were a heritage of his prairie small-town beginnings. He was born at home in an apartment above a store in Tampico, a village in northwestern Illinois, on Feb. 6, 1911. His father, John Edward Reagan, who was working as a clerk in the H. C. Pitney General Store, called his newborn son ''a little bit of a fat Dutchman,'' and the nickname Dutch stayed with him. 
 Ronald Reagan was later to describe his father as a hearty Irish Roman Catholic who was restless, ambitious and an alcoholic. His mother, Nelle Wilson Reagan, was a gentle Scotch-Irish Protestant who passed on to her children her religious faith and her interest in amateur theater. 
 The family was poor, but Mr. Reagan wrote in his first autobiography, ''Where's the Rest of Me?'' (Duell, Sloan, Pearce, 1965), that he had never been troubled by any sense of need. He liked to remember his boyhood as ''a rare Huck Finn idyll,'' and he developed a sunny nature and an irrepressible optimism. 
 He and his older brother, Neil, moved with their parents from one small Illinois town to the next. After living briefly in Chicago, they eventually settled in Dixon, where his father managed a shoe store for H. C. Pitney and Ronald finished grammar school and high school.
 Despite extreme nearsightedness (later corrected with contact lenses), he played football at Northside High School. In his junior year he also won his first role in a play, ''You and I,'' by Philip Barry. He was not an especially attentive student but managed to get fairly good grades with the help of a nearly photographic memory.
 His name first appeared on the front page of a newspaper on Aug. 3, 1928, when he was cited for his 25th rescue as a lifeguard at Lowell Park in Dixon. In seven summers on the job he worked seven days a week, and the $15 a week, later raised to $20, helped pay for his college tuition.
 He had an unsophisticated, unpretentious manner that stamped him as a product of his youth in the heartland. Throughout his long public career in the movies, on television and in politics, he never lost the shy tilt of the head and the puckish grin so favored by Hollywood.
 He left Dixon to attend Eureka College, a small Christian school near Peoria. By his own account, he was concerned mainly with maintaining his eligibility for football and with acting in school productions.
 With the nation mired in the Depression, the 21-year-old graduate had few prospects. It was 1932, and with little notion of what he wanted to do, he returned to Dixon. He grew to admire President Roosevelt, who used his masterly command of radio to steady a nation in despair, and a former teacher urged Mr. Reagan to try his hand at radio, where he might capitalize on his interest in sports and acting. After some big stations turned him down he landed a job at WOC in Davenport, Iowa, broadcasting University of Iowa football games.
 When the football season ended, Mr. Reagan was out of work again. But two months later, WOC hired him as a staff announcer at $100 a month. He learned how to read a script, rehearsing commercials until they sounded spontaneous. It was a talent he would use to great effect later in life.
 Soon he was transferred to WOC's sister station, WHO in Des Moines, the major Midwestern outlet for the National Broadcasting Company. He conducted interviews and covered football, swimming and track, but he became best known for his play-by-play of major league baseball games.
 His commentary became an exercise of imagination; he never saw any of the games he described so vividly. Instead, he recreated them from telegraphic reports from Chicago. In his 1965 autobiography, Mr. Reagan described what happened the day the wire went dead: ''I had a ball on the way to the plate and there was no way to call it back. At the same time, I was convinced that a ball game tied up in the ninth inning was no time to tell my audience we had lost contact with the game.'' He proceeded to give meticulous descriptions of what may be the longest series of foul balls in baseball history, even describing in detail the redheaded boy who scrambled for a souvenir ball. It was a story he loved to tell.

Birth of the Gipper
 In 1937, on a spring training trip with the Chicago Cubs, Mr. Reagan took an airplane to Catalina Island, off the coast of Southern California. The flight was so turbulent that he refused to fly again for almost 30 years. But he took advantage of the trip to California to look up a friend from WHO, who by then had been in several movies. She arranged a meeting with an agent, the agent arranged a screen test, and by the time Mr. Reagan returned to Des Moines, a telegram was waiting. Warner Brothers was offering a seven-year contract beginning at $200 a week.
 His first role was made to order for him. He played a radio news reporter in ''Love Is on the Air,'' the first of many ''good guy'' parts. From the B pictures that Hollywood churned out in those years he moved up to bit parts in A movies. In three years he landed the role he coveted above all, as George Gipp, Notre Dame's legendary Gipper, in ''Knute Rockne -- All American.'' The film, with its heroic deathbed scene, provided Mr. Reagan with a line he came to use to inspire political supporters: ''Win one for the Gipper.''
 He had parts in major movies with Bette Davis, Humphrey Bogart, Errol Flynn, Wallace Beery, Lionel Barrymore and a chimp named Bonzo. Then, in 1941, he starred in ''King's Row,'' which Mr. Reagan always called his finest picture.
 He played the role of a small-town playboy whose legs are amputated by a sadistic doctor. Awaking from surgery, he cries out in anguish, ''Where's the rest of me?'' That line became the title of the campaign autobiography he wrote with Richard G. Hubler before his race for governor of California.

Flights of Imagination
 He made 50 movies, a number of them about World War II. ''The Hasty Heart,'' in 1950, took him overseas for the first and only time until he went into politics. In the war, poor eyesight had kept him from the front, and he spent his years in the Army making training films. But in his autobiography he wrote of wanting nothing more after the war than a good rest and time with his wife, the actress Jane Wyman; in fact, they had both been in Hollywood throughout the war.
 His flights of imagination remained equally vivid when he went to the White House. In 1983 he told Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir of Israel that as part of his war duties he had been assigned to film the Nazi death camps. One of his favorite stories, one that he told over and over again to different audiences, concerned a pilot in World War II who told his crew to bail out of their crippled B-17 bomber. When the tail gunner said he could not move because he was badly wounded, the pilot replied, ''Never mind son, we'll ride it down together.'' When he told the story to a meeting of the Congressional Medal of Honor Society he added that the pilot was awarded the Medal of Honor posthumously. In fact, no medal was ever awarded for such an incident and the story came, almost word for word, from the script of a movie starring Dana Andrews called ''Wing and a Prayer.'' 
 ''For Ronald Reagan, the world of legend and myth is a real world,'' said Patrick J. Buchanan, a longtime political ally who was Mr. Reagan's director of White House communications. ''He visits it regularly, and he's a happy man there.''

Stormy Times for a Union Leader
 Mr. Reagan had married Miss Wyman in 1940. They had a daughter, Maureen, and adopted a son, Michael. Miss Wyman divorced him in 1948, after Mr. Reagan had become active in the Screen Actors Guild. Miss Wyman told the court that although she did not share his interest in the guild, Mr. Reagan insisted that she attend meetings. Finally, she said, ''there was nothing in common between us, nothing to sustain our marriage.''
 He was stunned by the divorce and often said his life did not become whole again until 1952, when he married Nancy Davis. An actress who was the daughter of a prominent Chicago surgeon, she became his political partner and adviser as well as his wife. They had two children, Patricia and Ronald.
 Mr. Reagan never became a major star, but he continued to make movies and threw himself into the work of the guild. He was elected its president and re-elected five times, through some of the stormiest years in the history of the film industry. Mr. Reagan led his union's intercession in a jurisdictional struggle between two movie unions, one dominated by gangsters, the other accused of being led by Communists. 
 When he was called before the House Un-American Activities Committee in 1947 to testify about Communist influence in the movie industry, Mr. Reagan refused to name names before the committee. But the historian Garry Wills said the Federal Bureau of Investigation file on Mr. Reagan that was later released disclosed that he had named people in secret.
 In those years Mr. Reagan was a Democrat and, as he later put it in his autobiography, ''a near-hopeless hemophiliac liberal.'' In 1950 he actively supported Helen Gahagan Douglas, the liberal Democrat who was defeated by Richard M. Nixon in a California senatorial campaign that became a portent of an era of Red-baiting.
 But behind the scenes, as president of the guild, he worked closely with the Motion Picture Industry Council to weed out Communist influence in Hollywood.
 In 1952 the Music Corporation of America offered Mr. Reagan the role of host on one of its first major productions, General Electric Theater. It was on that broadcast that he became familiar to the first television generation, a familiarity that was to serve him well later.

For G.E., Country, and Goldwater
 During his years on General Electric Theater, Mr. Reagan became the company spokesman, visiting G.E. plants around the country to give speeches and bolster employee morale. Hundreds of times a year he delivered a speech warning of a growing tide of government control and wasteful government programs. He was apparently so convincing that he convinced himself. 
 In 1962 he changed his party registration to Republican from Democratic, and two years later, with a polished version of the General Electric speech, Mr. Reagan burst onto the national political scene in a fund-raising appearance for Barry Goldwater, the Republican presidential candidate. Here is how Lou Cannon described the event in his biography ''Reagan'' (Putnam, 1982): 
 ''On Oct. 27, 1964, a washed-up 53-year-old movie actor named Ronald Reagan made a speech on national television on behalf of a Republican presidential candidate who had no chance to be elected. . . . Most of Reagan's address was standard, antigovernment boilerplate larded with emotional denunciations of Communism and a celebration of individual freedom. His statistics were sweeping and in some cases dubious. His best lines were cribbed from Franklin Roosevelt, and he quoted from nearly everybody else as well.''
 Mr. Cannon said the oratorical effort turned out to be the biggest moment in the Goldwater campaign, raising a million dollars. 
 Within a few months a group of wealthy Californians -- Holmes Tuttle, A. C. Rubel and Henry Salvatori -- formed a committee, Friends of Ronald Reagan, to initiate his 1966 candidacy for governor.
 After Mr. Reagan defeated the incumbent, Edmund G. (Pat) Brown, by almost a million votes, his friends underwrote the most expensive inaugural celebration in California history. When Mrs. Reagan did not like the Victorian mansion provided for the governor, the friends bought the Reagans a house in Sacramento, just as they would buy the couple a house in the Bel-Air section of Los Angeles after they left the White House. The same California millionaires bought designer dresses for Nancy Reagan when she was first lady, until the practice was criticized as a breach of ethics.

Moving Beyond Sacramento
 In Sacramento, Mr. Reagan found a Legislature controlled by Democrats who were unwilling to adopt his proposals to freeze hiring and cut the number of state employees. Time after time, the ideologue gave way to the pragmatist.
 Mr. Reagan signed a succession of tax increases to erase the state's deficit. Mr. Reagan, who was later to oppose legalized abortion, signed a bill that essentially permitted abortion on demand. In his two terms, the budget more than doubled and the number of state employees grew by 34,000.
 Mr. Reagan, who had been re-elected in 1970, decided not to seek a third term. In early 1975, nearing his 64th birthday, he left Sacramento to write a syndicated column, broadcast a daily radio commentary and prepare to run for the presidency.
 In 1968 he briefly ran in the presidential primaries as the Republican to the right of Mr. Nixon. Eight years later he nearly wrested the nomination from the incumbent president, Gerald R. Ford.
 In the early months of the 1980 campaign, Mr. Reagan made television appearances and sought to stay above the battle, acting as if the nomination was his. But George Bush won the Iowa caucuses in January. Abruptly Mr. Reagan changed his tactics, campaigning long and hard in New Hampshire, at one point working 21 consecutive days. By demonstrating vigor, Mr. Reagan defused concerns about his age (he turned 69 during the primary campaign) and won New Hampshire, drawing more than half the votes.
 On July 16, 1980, in Detroit, the Republican National Convention jubilantly awarded Mr. Reagan the nomination for president. His choice of Mr. Bush as his running mate was a blow to his conservative followers, but it reassured moderates who had viewed Mr. Reagan as a dangerous ideologue.
 In his acceptance speech, Mr. Reagan called on Americans to ''recapture our destiny,'' attacking what he called the Democratic legacy: ''a disintegrating economy, a weakened defense and an energy policy based on the sharing of scarcity.''

The 1980 Campaign
 Most opinion polls showed a close race to the end. The nation was in the grip of crises foreign and domestic. For all its military strength, it was powerless to liberate 52 Americans held hostage by Iran since November 1979. At home, consumer prices had risen 12.4 percent in one year, and in October 1980 a million and a half more people were out of work than in January.
 Mr. Reagan criticized the Carter administration for its policies abroad -- the Panama Canal treaties, the second strategic arms limitation agreement, the response to the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan -- and warned that a continuing Communist threat required a stronger military.
 He also said Mr. Carter had created an economic disaster that threatened the ethical and financial foundations of American family life.
 Mr. Reagan promised that if elected he would cut federal tax rates 30 percent over three years, reduce government spending and hiring, eliminate gift and estate taxes and balance the budget by 1984. He said the government should turn welfare and other social programs back to the states. He urged a constitutional amendment to prohibit abortion and opposed government financing of abortions for poor women. He called for a return of God to the classroom and prayer in the schools. He spoke against limitations on buying and owning firearms.
 A week before the election Mr. Reagan and Mr. Carter faced each other in a 90-minute televised debate in Cleveland. Mr. Reagan asked a question that later became a campaign refrain, not only for him but for a host of future candidates: ''Are you better off than you were four years ago?''
 And when Mr. Carter went on the attack, Mr. Reagan replied in a faintly exasperated tone with another oft-quoted line: ''There you go again.'' 
 Two days before the election, Iran announced tough terms for the release of the American hostages, and national attention was once again focused on the year-old crisis that had frustrated Mr. Carter. On Nov. 4, Mr. Reagan's victory was so overwhelming that Mr. Carter made the earliest concession statement of any major Presidential candidate since 1904.

A White House Change of Style
 Washington had not seen a president like Ronald Reagan for a long time. He showed no lust for power. He seemed to have no need to prove that he could work harder, or longer, on less sleep than anybody. Where his predecessor was criticized for involving himself in every detail, Mr. Reagan was a 9-to-5 president, a chairman of the board.
 He delegated authority to his staff. Associates said he left details to subordinates and tended to rely on 3-by-5 index cards that they gave him for information he needed at meetings. He paced himself, got a good night's sleep and took afternoon naps when he could.
 Mr. Reagan kept light office hours and went to the presidential retreat at Camp David, Md., or his ranch in Santa Barbara, Calif., as often as he could. All told, he spent nearly a year of his presidency in California, said Mr. Cannon, who kept an eye on his schedule.
 With the arrival of the Reagans, the capital became suffused with a new elegance and glamour absent in the Carter years. Washington was soon dubbed Hollywood on the Potomac as Mr. Reagan's wealthy friends converged on Washington. Some helped Mrs. Reagan raise $822,641 to renovate the White House family quarters.
 In forming his administration, Mr. Reagan went against accepted political wisdom when he selected a Republican moderate, James A. Baker III, as his chief of staff. Mr. Baker had been the campaign manager for Mr. Bush in the Republican primaries and had been on the Reagan team for only six months.
 But others had been with Mr. Reagan since the early days in California. Edwin Meese III, Mr. Reagan's campaign chief of staff, was given cabinet rank as counselor to the president; Michael K. Deaver was named assistant to the president and deputy chief of the White House staff. A longtime family friend and a favorite of Mrs. Reagan, Mr. Deaver held a position that made him the final arbiter of whom the president saw and what papers reached the Oval Office.
 Mr. Reagan's cabinet appointments, however, were a reflection of the Republican establishment. Among his choices were Alexander M. Haig Jr., a retired Army general, for secretary of state; Caspar W. Weinberger, secretary of defense; Malcolm Baldrige, secretary of commerce; Raymond J. Donovan, secretary of labor, and Richard S. Schweiker, secretary of health and human services.
 Mr. Reagan sought to perpetuate his philosophy through his appointments to the federal judiciary. By the time he left office he had appointed nearly half the sitting judges, judges who will be issuing decisions well into the 21st century.
 He appointed three justices to the Supreme Court. He had no difficulty with his appointments of Justice Sandra Day O'Connor as the first woman on the High Court in 1981 and Justice Antonin Scalia in 1986, though his elevation of William H. Rehnquist to chief justice that year provoked some opposition in Congress.
 But a year later, after the Republicans lost control of the Senate, he lost his first fight over a Supreme Court appointment when he nominated Judge Robert H. Bork. His next appointment, Judge Douglas H. Ginsburg, withdrew his name after it was disclosed that he had smoked marijuana when he was a law professor. Mr. Reagan succeeded in his third attempt; Judge Anthony M. Kennedy was confirmed in February 1988.

Mounting Ethics Troubles
 Before the end of Mr. Reagan's first term, more than a dozen officials in his administration faced charges of improper financial dealings, some minor, some major. There was cause to investigate some of Mr. Reagan's closest friends and advisers, including Lyn Nofziger, Mr. Deaver and Mr. Meese. 
 When top Justice Department officials resigned in March 1988, criticizing Mr. Meese's ethics and his handling of the Iran-contra investigation, there were widespread calls for the attorney general's resignation. The Senate Democratic leader, Robert C. Byrd of West Virginia, called Mr. Meese ''the crown jewel of the sleaze factor in Reagan administration history.'' Mr. Meese resigned in August 1988.
 Mr. Deaver remained an adviser even after he left the White House in 1985. He was convicted in 1987 of lying under oath to a federal grand jury and to a Congressional subcommittee about using his influence with the president to enhance his lobbying activities after leaving the White House. In September 1988, Mr. Deaver was given a suspended three-year prison sentence, placed on probation and fined $100,000.

'I Forgot to Duck'
 On the afternoon of March 30, 1981, the president, in office only two months, was leaving a Washington hotel where he had addressed a union convention. As Mr. Reagan turned to hear a reporter's question, John W. Hinckley Jr., a 25-year-old college dropout with an arrest record for carrying handguns, emerged from a crowd of onlookers and shot the him and three other people with a .22-caliber pistol. James S. Brady, the president's press secretary, was left with permanent brain damage; a bullet penetrated Mr. Reagan's left lung.
 ''Honey, I forgot to duck,'' he was reported to have told Mrs. Reagan when she arrived at the hospital. He was about to be taken into surgery to arrest a life-threatening loss of blood; he was in severe pain, but his sense of humor was reported to be intact.
 A jury found Mr. Hinckley not guilty by reason of insanity, and he was sent to a Washington hospital for treatment. 
 Mr. Reagan recovered his vitality with remarkable speed. Less than a month after the shooting, he addressed a joint meeting of Congress to urge passage of his economic program. 
 He made an equally quick recovery from surgery four years later. On July 12, 1985, he entered Bethesda Naval Medical Center for what was expected to be a routine removal of a noncancerous polyp in his colon. But doctors found a previously unsuspected growth in the upper tract of his large intestine. The next day, in nearly three hours of surgery, doctors removed a malignant polyp but found no evidence that the cancer had spread. Looking fit, he returned to the White House a week later.
 The president bounced back from three other operations -- two in 1985 and one in 1987 -- to remove cancerous skin lesions from his nose. His recovery from prostate surgery in 1987 was not as speedy. During his recuperation, which coincided with the unfolding of the Iran-contra affair, Mr. Reagan made few public appearances.

Reaganomics I: Big Changes
 Two weeks after he took office, on Feb. 5, 1981, Mr. Reagan delivered a speech from the Oval Office. ''I regret to say that we're in the worst economic mess since the Great Depression,'' he declared. With inflation raging, growth flagging and interest rates soaring, he said, ''it's time to try something different, and that's what we're going to do.'' 
 What he proposed came to be called the Reagan Revolution. Almost overnight it transformed the national debate over domestic policy. From the beginning of the New Deal, the question had been what federal programs to expand. Under Mr. Reagan the question became what programs to cut.
 ''Feeding more dollars to government is like feeding a stray pup,'' he told the National Association of Manufacturers. ''It just follows you home and sits on your doorstep asking for more.''
 Mr. Beschloss, the historian, said: ''Because Mr. Reagan was a wonderful communicator, he was able to make the case for less government and for moving power away from Washington. The idea took stronger hold than it would have without him. He became the embodiment of the conservative movement and hurried it along.''
 Reaganomics, as his economic program became known, was based on the theory that a cut in taxes would stimulate economic growth, generating higher revenues and making the deficit disappear. In the 1980 Republican primaries Mr. Bush called this supply-side plan ''voodoo economics.'' And Mr. Reagan's own director of the budget, David A. Stockman, suggested that the president was simply proposing a repackaging of economics intended to favor the rich, whose gains would ultimately trickle down through the rest of the economy. 
 Despite widespread criticism of the idea, Mr. Reagan was able to sell the program to Congress, both a tax cut and a $28 billion increase in the military budget.

Reaganomics II: Deficits
 The administration had to fight harder to cut federal spending programs created to help the needy, but it had some notable successes. CETA, the Comprehensive Employment and Training Act, under which more than 300,000 of the poor were employed in 1980 and 1981, was eliminated. Eligibility standards were tightened for food stamps and Aid to Families with Dependent Children. Medicaid rolls were reduced, and limits were put on Medicare payments. 
 In the first years of the Reagan administration, when unemployment was rising, insurance for workers who lost their jobs because of foreign competition was scaled back. Middle-income college students became ineligible for government-backed loans and more than a million people lost their food stamps. In 1981, the Department of Agriculture proposed that ketchup be considered a vegetable in calculating the nutritional values of school lunches. The suggestion caused such an uproar that the rule was never instituted.
 When Social Security disability benefits were cut off for 500,000 people, the federal courts restored payments to 200,000, but the cuts furthered the perception that the administration was heartless.
 Despite the many budget cuts, the deficit kept growing. After he left government, Mr. Stockman wrote a book, ''The Triumph of Politics'' (Harper & Row), in which he described how, on behalf of Mr. Reagan's programs, he had exaggerated the administration's success in reducing spending and minimized the projected deficit. He said he invented the ''rosy scenario,'' making optimistic assumptions about future growth, inflation and interest rates.
 ''If the Securities and Exchange Commission had jurisdiction over the White House,'' Mr. Stockman wrote, ''we might have all had time for a course in remedial economics at Allenwood penitentiary.''
 Within six years the deficit more than doubled, from $79 billion in Mr. Reagan's first year in office to $173 billion. In the 1987 fiscal year it dropped back to $150.4 billion but edged up again in 1988.
 Still, Mr. Reagan repeatedly refused to consider tax increases. ''I don't want to hear any more talk about taxes,'' Mr. Stockman quoted him as saying. ''The problem is deficit spending.''
 He repeatedly called for a constitutional amendment to require that the budget be balanced, and for the authority to veto individual items in budgets passed by Congress.
 But by the middle of 1982, with a recession continuing and deficit projections soaring, Mr. Reagan grudgingly agreed to a $98.6 billion increase in excise and other taxes. But he refused to call them taxes, insisting on the term ''revenue enhancers.''

Reaganomics III: Boom and Crash
 After the 1981-82 recession, Mr. Reagan presided over the longest economic expansion in history, one that saw the creation of 16 million jobs. By his seventh year in office the stock market was reaching an all-time high. Inflation had dropped and the prime interest rate was down, partly a result of the collapse of oil prices and partly from the policies of the Federal Reserve.
 But Mr. Reagan got the credit, just as he had gotten the blame for the recession and the deficit. Economists noted that foreign capital pouring into the country had shielded the United States from the consequences of the deficit, but warned that it would be only a matter of time before that buffer disappeared.
 Mr. Reagan also got much of the credit for the 1986 overhaul of the federal tax code, hammered together by a bipartisan coalition in Congress. The changes, among the most sweeping ever, reduced the rates for most taxpayers and curbed or eliminated many exemptions that enabled people to shelter income from taxation.
 ''Had Reagan not moved up front, it would have gone nowhere,'' said the economist Alan Greenspan, whom Mr. Reagan later named to head the Federal Reserve. ''He was the first president to succeed in doing it.'' 
 On Oct. 16, 1987, The Wall Street Journal reported that the economy was one of the two bright spots in a Reagan administration that was increasingly paralyzed by its Iran-contra troubles. Then, on Oct. 19, the stock market suffered the most severe single-day decline up to that point in its history, dropping 508 points.
 The market meltdown highlighted the administration's failure to deal with the budget and trade deficits and the failure of supply-side economics to encourage investment and productivity. Economists' warnings that the administration was mortgaging the country's future were finally heeded, and the president and Congress agreed to a deficit-reduction package.

Reaganomics IV: Balance Sheet
 Unemployment declined, but more people were living below the poverty line, and homelessness became a national concern. When Mr. Reagan was asked about the problem in 1984, he replied that some needy people might be ''homeless by choice.'' 
 Economists vary widely in their assessments of Mr. Reagan's record.
 ''We know for a fact that Reagan has and will have a more profound effect on the American economy than any president in the post-World War II period,'' Mr. Greenspan said in an interview before his appointment to the Federal Reserve. ''The problem is that it is not exactly clear whether the very strong pluses or strong minuses will prevail.'' 
 On the plus side, Mr. Greenspan said, Mr. Reagan ''instituted an extraordinary change in tax policy.'' And he said Mr. Reagan had been responsible ''for a fairly pronounced slowing'' in the growth of social benefit programs. On the minus side, Mr. Greenspan cited the ''extraordinary budget deficits which have occurred as a consequence of his original tax proposals.'' 
 Prof. James Tobin, a Nobel Prize-winning economist at Yale University, said the Reagan legacy was ''a crippled federal government.''
 ''He tried to squeeze ambitious growth of defense spending into a budget he was simultaneously depriving of tax revenues,'' Professor Tobin said. ''Legislators of both parties, most of whom knew better, deserve a share of the blame for their supine surrender to the president's program.''

Domestic Policy: Changing Rules
 When Mr. Reagan accepted the Republican nomination for re-election in summer 1984 in Dallas, he told the delegates that Americans confronted a choice: a government of pessimism and fear or a government of hope, confidence and growth. Walter F. Mondale, his Democratic opponent, he said, did not represent mainstream America. 
 On Nov. 8, Mr. Reagan scored one of the biggest victories in American political history, winning 525 electoral votes to Mr. Mondale's 13. At the beginning of his second term, he said the nation ''was poised for greatness.'' Then, with a line that sounded like an echo from his first national political speech in 1964, he said, ''We must never again abuse the trust of working men and women by spending their earnings on a futile chase after the spiraling demands of a bloated federal establishment.''
 The effort to reduce the size of that establishment was a constant of the Reagan presidency. His campaign pledge to reduce government policing of business was most effectively redeemed in the broadcasting and energy industries. Banking was another major area of deregulation, the disastrous consequences of which were to become clear after Mr. Reagan left office in the savings and loan scandals that could cost the nation hundreds of billions of dollars.
 The Federal Trade Commission, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration were curbed by budget cuts and by the appointment of conservative administrators who were often accused of opposing the missions of the agencies they headed.
 To put an end to what he called the ''adversary relationship'' between government and business, Mr. Reagan's Justice Department reined in its antitrust division. In a move that environmentalists said was intended to aid timber, oil and mining companies, the Interior Department removed thousands of acres of public lands from the protected category.
 Although there were efforts to reduce farm price supports, federal spending on this program rose, reaching an all-time high in 1986. Still, a worldwide surplus of grain caused prices to plummet, and there were more farm foreclosures in the Reagan years than at any time since the Depression.
 The Reagan administration also sought to shift government activities to the private sector, a move that would automatically result in a cut in government spending. In 1986, for example, the administration persuaded Congress to authorize the sale of Conrail, the federal corporation that ran much of the rail freight system.
 Mr. Reagan's opposition to governmental interference in the private sector made him a strong advocate of free trade with foreign countries. But he pressured Japanese manufacturers to accept a voluntary quota on automobile exports and gave some trade protection to steel, textiles and motorcycles. In the first year of Mr. Reagan's second term, the United States, once the biggest creditor nation, became the biggest debtor nation in the world despite some efforts on his part to alter the trade balance.

Civil Rights Retrenchment
 The Reagan administration also challenged the longstanding view that the government should aggressively protect civil rights. The budget for the Civil Rights Commission, the agency that monitors federal civil rights activities, was cut. The civil rights division in the Justice Department led an attack on court-ordered measures to correct discrimination, based on the administration's opposition to quotas as discriminatory against whites. But the courts repeatedly upheld affirmative action in the workplace, saying it helped overcome past discrimination against minorities.
 The administration's actions provoked bitter criticism from civil rights advocates. Jack Greenberg, who served for many years as counsel for the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, said Mr. Reagan had ''showed a clear hostility to civil rights aspirations.''

Foreign Policy: New Doctrines
 No sooner had Mr. Reagan taken the oath of office at noon on Jan. 20, 1981, than the 52 American hostages who had been held in Iran since Nov. 4, 1979, were released in accordance with an agreement that President Carter had completed only hours before. The timing of the release led to questions about whether Mr. Reagan or his staff had struck a private deal with the Iranians. 
 Although Mr. Reagan said little about Iran in his inaugural address, the battle against terrorism became the cornerstone of his foreign policy, and he sounded a warning.
 ''Our reluctance for conflict should not be misjudged as a failure of will,'' he said. ''When action is required to preserve our national security, we will act.''
 Halfway into his first year in office, Mr. Reagan made good on his promise of swift retaliation against terrorists and the countries he accused of supporting them. On Aug. 19, 1981, American planes shot down two Libyan jets over the Gulf of Sidra in a dispute with the Libyan leader, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, who claimed that the gulf was Libyan territory.
 Five years later, in April 1986, Mr. Reagan ordered the bombing of Tripoli to punish Colonel Qaddafi for his supposed role in a terrorist attack on a discotheque in West Germany that killed an American soldier. Some reports said the target of the retaliatory raid was Colonel Qaddafi himself.
 In 1985 Mr. Reagan sent F-14 fighters to intercept an Egyptian plane carrying four Palestinian terrorists and forced it to land in Sicily. The hijackers, who had seized the Italian cruise ship Achille Lauro and killed an American passenger, were taken into custody by Italian officials.
 The ''Reagan Doctrine'' was the name given to the administration's policy of supporting forces fighting Soviet-backed governments in Afghanistan, Nicaragua and Angola. Although support of the mujahedeen in Afghanistan was to have lasting repercussions in the fight against terrorism, Mr. Reagan believed Soviet withdrawal from that country was a vindication of his policies.
 In keeping with this doctrine, the administration persistently supported the contras fighting to overthrow the Sandinista government of Nicaragua. (The Sandinistas were ultimately ousted in national elections in 1990.) In El Salvador, the Reagan administration supported the government against a Marxist insurgency.
 In October 1983, Mr. Reagan sent American forces to Grenada in a mission to rescue American students in medical school on that Caribbean island and to evict a Grenadian government that he called ''a brutal group of leftist thugs.''

Frustration and Statesmanship
 Until the Iran-contra scandal, Mr. Reagan's most searing setback in foreign affairs came in fall 1983. Over the objections of some top advisers, he had dispatched marines to Beirut to be part of a multinational force to bring a semblance of calm to Lebanon. On Oct. 23 a terrorist driving a truck laden with explosives crashed into the Marine compound, killing 241 Americans. Four months later, the president withdrew the Marine contingent.
 In 1987, after the Iran-contra scandal became public knowledge, there was more misfortune when Mr. Reagan ordered American warships to the Persian Gulf to protect Kuwaiti tankers under attack by Iran. In an unusual arrangement, the president also permitted Kuwaiti tankers to fly the American flag, a decision intended to prevent Soviet domination of the gulf and to permit tankers to move without interference.
 Calamity befell the plan when 37 American sailors were killed by a missile fired from an Iraqi plane at the American frigate Stark. A year later, the Navy warship Vincennes shot down an Iranian commercial airliner over the gulf after mistaking it for an attacking F-14 fighter jet. All 290 people aboard the plane were killed.
 In 1984, on a 10-day trip to Europe, Mr. Reagan toured the beaches of Normandy in a celebration of the 40th anniversary of D-Day. At Pointe de Hoc, against the sweep of the cliffs and beaches that have become indelibly associated with the victory over fascism, Mr. Reagan delivered one of the most memorable speeches of his Presidency. The scenes were captured in a film that was used to introduce Mr. Reagan at that summer's Republican National Convention. His travels were meant to send an important message to the voters back home: that the domestic reformer had come of age as a statesman.
 A year later, a trip to Europe produced a major embarrassment for Mr. Reagan. On the eve of a visit to West Germany, in which he was scheduled to stop at a cemetery in Bitburg, it became known that Nazi storm troopers were among those buried there. The president rejected advice to cancel the stop, and there was an uproar when he tried to justify it by saying that the German soldiers buried there were victims of Nazism, ''just as surely as the victims in the concentration camps.''
 Mr. Reagan was not a strategic thinker, his own aides said; he thought in terms of anecdotes, not analysis. His knowledge of international developments was considered thin, and those who met with him said his participation in discussions was usually limited to what his staff had provided him on the 3-by-5 cards.
 In his biography of Mr. Reagan, Mr. Cannon noted the president's tendency to misspeak: ''He did not know enough. And he did not know how much he didn't know. Because of Reagan's knowledge gaps, his presidential news conferences became adventures into the uncharted regions of his mind.''

Iran-Contra Affair: Zeal and Denial
 By late 1986, the president had become obsessed by the hostages held in Lebanon by allies of Iran; aides said he mentioned them at almost every staff meeting. Two national security advisers, Robert C. McFarlane and Vice Adm. John M. Poindexter, and a National Security Council staff assistant, Lt. Col. Oliver L. North of the Marines, were emboldened by his concern to undertake some extremely unorthodox measures to try to free the hostages. 
 Publicly, Mr. Reagan had condemned Iran as an outlaw state ''run by the strangest collection of misfits, Looney Tunes and squalid criminals since the advent of the Third Reich.'' Yet Mr. Reagan's own security council staff conceived and put into operation a secret plan to supply weapons to Iran as ransom for the American hostages. Under this scheme, profits from the sales were earmarked for the contras, whom Mr. Reagan had called ''the moral equivalent of our founding fathers.'' 
 When the secret operation was first reported, Mr. Reagan denied that it existed. On Nov. 13, 1986, he said, ''In spite of the wildly speculative and false stories about arms for hostages, we did not, repeat, did not trade arms or anything else for hostages.'' But almost four months later, he ruefully referred to that remark in a speech to the nation. ''My heart and my best intentions still tell me that is true,'' he said, ''but the facts and the evidence tell me it is not.'' 
 The facts and evidence were presented in the report of a commission led by former Senator John G. Tower, and later in the majority report of a Congressional investigating committee, showing that Mr. Reagan had approved shipments of weapons to Iran months before he issued his first public denial. The findings of the Tower commission, in early 1987, left open the question of whether Mr. Reagan, then 76 and just recovering from prostate surgery, had the vigor to recover and the ability to reverse a lifelong habit of detachment.
 After Mr. Reagan's Alzheimer's became known, questions were raised as to whether he had already started to have memory lapses when he was president, especially in the Iran-contra affair. He had often said he would step down if he felt his capabilities had been reduced and had expressed concern that his mother's Alzheimer's might have been passed on to him. Doctors did not rule out that a subdural hematoma resulting from a fall from a horse in 1989, after he left the White House, might have also affected his memory.
 The 1987 report of the Tower commission noted: ''The president did pretty well . . . for the better part of five years. And then all of a sudden the style and the consequences failed him.'' The report said Mr. Reagan's staff not only failed to make up for his deficiencies but also took advantage of his inattention. Mr. Reagan liked to say that in his years in the White House he lived over the store. But the Tower commission said in effect that nobody was minding the store.

'This Happened on My Watch'
 On March 4, 1987, a week after the Tower report was issued, Mr. Reagan appeared on television, looking healthy and alert, to deliver what was seen at the time as the most important speech of his presidency. To demonstrate that he was back in charge, he outlined actions to correct the flaws in the way his White House had operated. As chief of staff he appointed former Senator Howard H. Baker Jr. of Tennessee, who was more conciliatory and more collegial than the man he replaced, Donald T. Regan. 
 Accepting the sharp criticism of the Tower commission report, Mr. Reagan said that what had started as a strategic opening to Iran had ''deteriorated in its implementation into trading arms for hostages.'' He said, ''This runs contrary to my own beliefs, to administration policy and to the original strategy we had in mind.'' He accepted ''full responsibility'' for the Iran-contra affair: ''As the Navy would say, this happened on my watch.'' 
 Yet even after Mr. Poindexter and Mr. North were indicted on charges of conspiracy, theft and fraud in the affair in 1988, Mr. Reagan declared that he still believed that Mr. North was a hero and that his former aides were not guilty. He said, ''I just have to believe that they're going to be found innocent, because I don't think they were guilty of any wrongdoing or any crime.'' 
 On May 4, 1989, Mr. North, who had left the Marines, was found guilty of three felonies, including destroying and falsifying official documents, and acquitted of nine other charges. On July 15 he was fined $150,000, placed on probation for two years and ordered to perform 1,200 hours of community service. On Sept. 16, 1991, a federal judge dismissed all charges against Mr. North. Prosecutors said they would not be able to show that the trial had not been affected by televised Congressional testimony that Mr. North had given under immunity.
 For the same reason a divided federal appeals court on Nov. 15, 1990, threw out five felony convictions of Mr. Poindexter. In June, 1990, Mr. Poindexter had become the first person in the Iran-contra affair to receive a jail term, and the highest White House official since Watergate sentenced to a prison term for illegal acts committed in office.
 Mr. Reagan was not brought to court, but he faced the judgment of history. The historian C. Vann Woodward said in an interview that he knew of ''nothing comparable with this magnitude of irresponsibility and incompetence.''
 Mr. Woodward observed: ''This is not simply the self-serving of a politician who was using illegal methods. This involved the country's policy and its foreign relations and reputation.'' 

Long Struggle, on Arms Control
 Mr. Reagan had sought a place in history as a president who dealt forcefully with terrorists and took vigorous action to rescue Americans taken hostage anywhere in the world. Perhaps even more than the president, it was said, Nancy Reagan was concerned that the Iran-contra scandal would damage her husband's place in history. She pressed for an arms agreement with the Soviet Union, hoping it would establish his reputation as statesman and peacemaker and undo some of the damage. 
 But distrust of the Soviet Union had been a hallmark of Mr. Reagan's political career. He had labeled it the ''evil empire'' and his suspicions were confirmed in September 1983 when a Soviet fighter jet shot down a South Korean airliner, killing 269 people and plunging Soviet-American relations into a new and bitter round of recrimination.
 Chances for an arms agreement seemed slim. In his first term, Mr. Reagan was less concerned with arms control than with an arms buildup to counter Soviet military power. In 1979, as a candidate, he had opposed ratification of the strategic arms limitation agreement, saying it strongly favored the Soviets. (Although that agreement never came to a vote in the Senate, his administration continued to observe its terms until late 1986, when the United States exceeded the limits.)
 In 1981 Mr. Reagan said SALT had not brought any arms reductions, and, proposing a new beginning, called for ''Strategic Arms Reduction Talks,'' with the felicitous acronym Start. 
 He had promised in his 1980 campaign, that his top strategic priority would be to close ''the window of vulnerability'' through which he believed the Soviet Union could launch a successful nuclear first strike. As president, he essentially speeded the strategic modernization program sought by Mr. Carter. He began procurement of the B-1 bomber. In accordance with a decision of the Carter administration, some medium-range missiles were deployed in Europe. The administration strengthened the Navy and pushed for modernization of bombers and missiles, helicopters and tanks.
 Some analysts believe that buildup, along with military exercises and reconnaissance that were seen from the Soviet perspective as provocative, may have strengthened Soviet hawks and actually delayed efforts by Mr. Gorbachev to bring reform to the Soviet Union.

'Star Wars' and a Breakthrough
 On March 23, 1983, Mr. Reagan announced plans for a system of exotic, space-based defenses that would make nuclear weapons impotent and obsolete. Former Defense Secretary James R. Schlesinger said the program, the Strategic Defense Initiative, which came to be called ''Star Wars,'' was nothing but ''a collection of technical experiments and distant hopes.'' But the president, Mr. Schlesinger said, treated it ''as if it were already a reality.'' 
 Nevertheless, minutes of Politburo meetings that have come to light, show that Mr. Gorbachev was, in the words of a Russian scholar, ''obsessed'' by the proposal, which he feared would lead to a new and more dangerous round in the arms race. Some Russian scholars say it was this fear, even more than the cost, that concerned the Soviet leader, because his scientists had assured him they could meet the threat at 10 percent of what it would cost the United States. But hardliners in the Reagan administration believed that heightened military spending would cause the collapse of the Soviet Union.
 Indeed, Mr. Gorbachev had come to recognize that he would have to find new sources of revenue as his country's economy declined, and a cut in the arms budget was a prime candidate. 
 Just when it began to look as if Mr. Reagan would be the first president in two decades to fail to get any arms agreement with the Soviets, it was announced that he and Mr. Gorbachev would meet in Reykjavik, Iceland, on Oct. 11 and 12, 1986.
 There, Mr. Reagan proposed the elimination of all ballistic missiles by 1996. Mr. Gorbachev, not to be outdone, proposed the elimination of all strategic nuclear weapons, a proposal that, to the consternation of his aides, Mr. Reagan accepted. Mr. Reagan had found in Mr. Gorbachev a Communist he could deal with, and the tenor of the United States-Soviet relationship in his second term differed markedly from his first years in office.
 In February 1987, two days after the Tower commission issued its report on the Iran-contra affair, Mr. Gorbachev announced the Soviet Union's willingness to sign ''without delay'' an agreement to eliminate Soviet and American medium-range missiles in Europe within five years.
 For Mr. Reagan, the Soviet proposal provided an opportunity for a foreign policy breakthrough when he appeared immobilized by the Iran-contra scandal. The intermediate-range nuclear force, or I.N.F., treaty was signed the next December.
 ''The importance of this treaty transcends numbers,'' Mr. Reagan said at the signing ceremony in the White House. ''We have listened to the wisdom in an old Russian maxim Davorey no provorey -- Trust, but verify.''
 Mr. Reagan's attitude toward the Soviet Union had evolved. With Mr. Gorbachev promising glasnost and perestroika, the restructuring of his country's political and economic system, Mr. Reagan reconsidered the ''evil empire'' and relegated it to another era.
 ''My personal impression of Mr. Gorbachev is that he is a serious man seeking serious reform,'' the president said in 1988. ''We look to this trend to continue. We must do all that we can to assist it.''
 But along the way he urged the new Soviet leader to move further, faster. On June 12, 1987, at the Brandenburg Gate in Berlin, Mr. Reagan, in one of his most noted speeches, delivered a challenge to Mr. Gorbachev: ''If you seek peace, if you seek prosperity for the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe, if you seek liberalization, come here to this gate, Mr. Gorbachev. Open this gate, Mr. Gorbachev.''
 Like a modern-day Joshua at the battle of Jericho, Mr. Reagan lived to see the Berlin Wall come tumbling down. ''I never dreamed that in less than three years the wall would come down and a 6,000-pound section of it would be sent to me for my presidential library,'' Mr. Reagan wrote in his autobiography, ''An American Life,'' (Simon & Schuster, 1990).

Time and the Man
 The former House speaker, Thomas P. O'Neill Jr., Democrat of Massachusetts, said of Mr. Reagan: ''Most of the time he was an actor reading lines who didn't understand his own programs. I hate to say it about such an agreeable man, but it was sinful that Ronald Reagan ever became president.'' 
 Mr. O'Neill, who served in much of Mr. Reagan's tenure, said he had ''known every president since Harry Truman and there's no question in my mind that Ronald Reagan was the worst.'' But, he added, ''he would have made a hell of a king.'' 
 But, in the view of Kenneth Lynn, professor of history at the Johns Hopkins University, Mr. Reagan ''will remain as one of the most important presidents of the 20th century.'' 
 Professor Lynn said in an interview: ''He fulfilled a restorative function we desperately needed. His belief that we can come out of our travail with a renewed strength, his ebullience, his optimism and his lack of guilt in his personal life and in America in general were a breath of fresh air. To have someone speak in terms of possibility, of limitlessness rather than of limits, was an elixir, a real upper. He was the most important President since Franklin Delano Roosevelt in these symbolic respects.''
 Paul Johnson, the historian and journalist, gives Mr. Reagan credit for more than symbolic accomplishment. ''Reagan's rearmament program, accompanied as it was by a resurgence in the U.S. economy, had a demoralizing effect on the Soviet elite,'' Mr. Johnson wrote in Foreign Affairs.
 ''Thus,'' he continued, ''the concept of perestroika was born, not merely of internal shame and exasperation at empty shops and shabby conditions, but of an external recognition that their chief ideological competitor, under Reagan's leadership, was far more formidable and durable than they had supposed.''
 But to many other historians and political scientists, Mr. Reagan's accomplishments will not secure his place among great American presidents. 
 Thomas Cronin, the McHugh Professor of American Institutions at Colorado College, said Americans evaluated the greatness of a president on ''criteria that are over and above popularity and re-election.''
 Mr. Cronin credited Mr. Reagan with enhancing national security with the I.N.F. treaty but asked: ''Did he expand opportunities for all Americans regardless of race, gender or income bracket? It's my view Reagan has not enlarged the equity factor nor the educational opportunities for most Americans.''
 And the Reagan presidency was lacking in moral leadership, he said, an essential quality for greatness. ''He was too late, too little and too lame when it came to human rights abuses at home and abroad,'' Professor Cronin said. ''He was not willing to be a leader.'' 
 In addition to his wife, Mr. Reagan is survived by their children, Patti Davis and Ron Jr., and Michael, a son from his marriage to Miss Wyman. Maureen Reagan, his daughter from that marriage, died in 2001. He is also survived by a granddaughter, Rita.
 Moments after the inauguration of George Bush as the nation's 41st resident, Mr. Reagan returned to California, to writing his autobiography, to riding his horses and chopping wood on his ranch and to the new house in Bel-Air. There were some political appearances and a visit to Japan that occasioned an uproar when it became known that he was being paid $2 million by a Japanese communications group for his appearances there.
 Not a man given to introspection, he nevertheless wrote his autobiography with the help of a former journalist, Robert Lindsey, a narrative of his life and his presidency as he remembered it.
 There followed a round of television interviews in which he promoted the sale of his book. Barbara Walters asked him how he thought history would remember him.
 ''Well,'' Mr. Reagan replied, ''I hope it'll remember me on the basis that when I took office, I felt very strongly that our government had grown too officious and imposing too much on the private sector in our society, and that I wanted to see if the American people couldn't get back that pride, and that patriotism, that confidence, that they had in our system. And I think they have.''


CORRECTION-DATE: July 1, 2004

 CORRECTION:
The obituary of Ronald Reagan in late editions on Sunday and a condensed version on Monday misstated the scope of his brief run for the Republican nomination in 1968. Although Mr. Reagan tested his popularity that year, he did not enter primaries. The obituaries also misstated the origin of the campaign slogan ''It's morning in America.'' It was used in television ads for his 1984 re-election bid, not for the 1980 campaign.
 The obituary on Sunday also misstated the affiliation of a scholar who commented on the way Americans evaluate a president's greatness. The scholar, Thomas Cronin, is president of Whitman College, in Washington State; he is no longer a professor at Colorado College.

The obituary of Ronald Reagan on June 6 misstated the ranking of the economic expansion that occurred after the 1981-82 recession. The expansion, from 1982 to 1990, was not the longest in American history; it was the third-longest -- after expansions in 1991-2001 and 1961-1969.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Ronald Reagan, a former governor, lived longer than any president. (Photo by Associated Press, 1990)(pg. 1)
THE OATH -- Ronald Reagan was sworn in by Chief Justice Warren E. Burger, in 1981. Nancy Reagan held the Bible as Senator Mark O. Hatfield and Jimmy Carter looked on. (Photo by United Press International)
ON THE RADIO -- (above) Ronald Reagan was known for his baseball play-by-plays while at WHO in Des Moines in the 1930's. (Photo by WHO Broadcasting)
AS A LIFEGUARD -- (left) He worked seven days a week for seven summers, and the job helped pay his college tuition.
IN HIGH SCHOOL -- (above) Ronald Reagan participated in football, track and drama. (Photo by United Press International)
THE EARLY YEARS -- (left) John E. Reagan, with sons Neil and Ronald, and wife Nelle, circa 1913 in Tampico, Ill. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. 44)
ATTEMPT ON HIS LIFE -- Ronald Reagan looked up and was pushed into his limousine after being shot March 30, 1981, inWashington. (Photo by Associated Press)
CONGRESSIONAL TESTIMONY -- (above) Mr. Reagan, before the House Un-American Activities Committee in 1947. He refused to name names in public, but did so later in secret, an F.B.I. file revealed.
A FAVORITE MOVIE (left) Ann Sheridan and the actor, starring in 1941 in ''King's Row,'' which he always called his finest picture. (Photo by Culver Pictures)
IN THE MOVIES -- (above) A studio picture of Mr. Reagan in 1940. (Photo by Warner Brothers)
AN INSPIRING ROLE -- (left) The actor as Notre Dame's George Gipp, inspiring a line he came to use: ''Win one for the Gipper.'' (Photo by United Press International)(pg. 45)
A TIME OF SCANDAL -- Mr. Reagan, after the Tower Commission report on the Iran-contra affair, in 1987. The dealings involved Oliver L. North, top left, and John M. Poindexter, aides to Mr. Reagan, and William J. Casey, C.I.A. director, among others. (Photographs by Associated Press, except lower left, United Press International)
A SECOND MARRIAGE -- (above) Nancy Davis and Ronald Reagan tied the knot in 1952. With them are William Holden and his wife, Brenda Marshall. (Photo by United Press International)
ENTERING POLITICS -- (right) Mr. Reagan, after winning the Republican nomination for Governor of California, in 1966. He later won the race. (Photo by The New York Times)
THE NATIONAL SCENE -- (above) Barry Goldwater and Mr. Reagan, at a Republican rally in Washington in 1967. (Photo by The New York Times)
WARDING OFF VIOLENCE -- (right) In May 1970, he explained his request for a shutdown of California's higher education system after threats of antiwar violence. (Photo by United Press International)(pg. 46)
A NEW ERA -- Mikhail S. Gorbachev with President Reagan in 1987. Mr. Reagan negotiated an arms agreement with the Soviet Union. (Photo by Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times)
A NEW JUSTICE -- The president with Antonin Scalia, left, whom he appointed to fill the Supreme Court post ofWilliam H. Rehnquist, right, who was elevated to the position of chief justice, in 1986. (Photo by Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)
IN MEETINGS -- Mr. Reagan with his running mate, George Bush, in 1980 and with the British prime minister, Margaret Thatcher, in 1983. (Photo by Associated Press)
(Photo by Ashley Ashwood/Camera Press)
A WARM WELCOME -- (above) The Reagans in Japan in 1989
they urged that nation to open its markets. (Photo by Agence France-Presse)
 HONORING CASUALTIES -- (left) The president and Nancy Reagan at a memorial service in November 1983 for the marines killed that fall in Beirut and Grenada. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. 47) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); COLD WAR (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); HOSTAGE TAKING (89%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); SUPREME COURTS (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); WORLD WAR II (71%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); ANNIVERSARIES (65%); BASEBALL (64%); INVESTIGATIONS (62%); WAR & CONFLICT (60%) United States Politics and Government; Deaths (Obituaries); Iran-Contra Affair; Presidents and Presidency (US); Motion Pictures; United States Politics and Government; Biographical Information; United States Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%)

RONALD REAGAN (98%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); JIMMY CARTER (78%); ANTONIN SCALIA (55%) Marilyn Berger; Ronald Wilson Reagan; Nancy Reagan; Ron Reagan; Michael Reagan; Patti Davis; Jimmy Carter

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (70%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); LEBANON (92%); JAPAN (79%); NICARAGUA (79%); FRANCE (70%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2004



146 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 963 words

HEADLINE: France Says, Love the U.S., Hate Its Chief

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
AN intriguing idea has been gaining ground in France on the eve of President Bush's visit. It is that the much disliked president does not represent the true America, that the United States is a shining being or entity or thing to be honored on the D-Day beaches and distinguished from President George W. Bush himself.
 Politicians speak of saying yes to America but no to Mr. Bush. The newspaper Liberation warns Mr. Bush that he should not take President Jacques Chirac's expected expressions of gratitude as directed at him, but rather at America. Laurent Fabius, a former prime minister, says Mr. Bush is viewed ''as the exact opposite of the values that make us love America.'' 
 The idea is very French. It is conceptual. It is subtle. It is intellectually pleasing. It projects the notion that France knows better than America what America really is or really should be. It harks back to the idea France shares with America: that the countries embody some eternal values and have a mission to export them to all mankind. 
 The view of America as separate from its leader also has a familiar ring. For decades after World War II, the argument that ''La France'' was distinct from its quisling, Jew-deporting Vichy government was a familiar one. In this view, Marshal Henri Philippe Petain, the leader of the Vichy government, was not France, certainly not the eternal France of the Revolution, incarnated in the resistance leader Jean Moulin or in Charles de Gaulle himself. 
 That idea was also subtle and pleasing in its way. It enabled President Francois Mitterrand to continue placing wreaths on Petain's tomb in honor of the marshal's World War I accomplishments. Not until Mr. Chirac took office did a French president have the courage to avow fully what France did under the Nazi occupation and accept the responsibility that the nation as a whole bore. 
 The truth is that Vichy was not all of France, by any means, but it was France. The attempt to abstract a nation's essence or soul from its particular political incarnation at any one moment is dangerous. It may involve a flight from responsibility, whose essence is honesty.
 The fact is, whether France likes it or not, Mr. Bush cannot be distinguished from America. He has the support of roughly half the United States. His may not be the America of New York or San Francisco, the America of Michael Moore or Woody Allen, but it is a much larger America than the one portrayed by these two moviemakers.
 This America believes it is doing God's will in fighting for freedom. It equates pacifism with decline. It supports the death penalty, low taxes and the right to bear arms. 
 It is skeptical of subtle arguments, wondering what they really mean. It holds that action is American and that failure to support the president in wartime is un-American. It even believes the president when he says the war in Iraq is linked to the heroism of D-Day because today's war is also a response to an attack on America and also about ''the forward march of freedom.'' 
 Of course, there is another big slice of America, the one closer to the French idea of the American soul, that loathes Mr. Bush. This America is appalled by the war in Iraq, unsurprised by untruths used to justify war and worried about a leader who so regularly invokes the will of the Almighty. It is disdainful of the president's stumbling locution, angered by the detentions without counsel or trial in Guantanamo and elsewhere, aghast at the notion that the country may just face four more years with Mr. Bush. 
 These two camps make up America today and will face off in a fiercely contested election. At least until that day in November, Mr. Bush represents America, in all its many facets, the one that loves him and the one that loathes him. To pretend otherwise is ultimately misleading.
 When Mr. Fabius refers to the ''values that make us love America,'' he is in effect referring to the values that most comfort France in its self-image. That is to say, America as a symbol of liberty, democracy and justice; America as an embodiment of the values of the Enlightenment; America as the New World's engine of ideas borne across the European continent by Napoleon's army after the Revolution of 1789.
 These ideas are inspiring. That they provoke France's love of France is understandable. The only problem with love is that it can be blind. This problem is particularly acute at a time when both France and America feel the need to proclaim their friendship anew after a nasty falling-out. Reconciliation of any kind and however partial has to be based on each side's seeing and acknowledging the reality of the other and the differences that exist.
 To separate ''America'' from Mr. Bush in order to welcome him merely preserves an illusion. For better or for worse, France and America also have divergent ideas on the roots of Middle East terrorism, on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, on Iraq, on the role of the state in an economy, on money and religion and how they are talked about in national life. France's desire to distinguish its America from Mr. Bush's has intensified in recent months as the situation in Iraq has worsened and images of prisoner abuse at Abu Ghraib have reinforced all the darkest French views of the Bush administration.
 The official speeches on Sunday honoring America's sacrifice for France's freedom were not intended to dwell on these differences. They were meant to invoke valor and shared values and an old friendship and a bond forged in blood. But to preserve the bond, it seems essential to face facts. Bush is America, just as Chirac is France. The two nations' highest offices represent every shade of opinion that makes up their democracies. No separate national essence exists.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A new French thought: hatred of President Bush is not the same as hatred for America. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); WORLD WAR II (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); WORLD WAR I (66%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (50%); RIGHT TO BEAR ARMS (50%) United States International Relations; World War II (1939-45)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JACQUES CHIRAC (58%) Roger Cohen; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); PARIS, FRANCE (73%) NEW YORK, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (99%); FRANCE (97%) France

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2004



147 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review; Spooked; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1322 words

HEADLINE: Was It Ever Easy to Lead The C.I.A.?

BYLINE: By PHILIP TAUBMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
IT seems an immutable law of Washington: directors of central intelligence are better remembered for their failures than their successes. George J. Tenet joined the roll last week. Historians may someday credit him for rebuilding the marquee spy service at a dangerous hour in the nation's history, but for now his critics will consign him to the company of men like Allen W. Dulles, who was fired by President Kennedy after the disastrous 1961 Bay of Pigs invasion of Cuba, and William J. Casey, who died in office as the Iran-contra scandal engulfed the Reagan administration. 
 As he packs up his papers, Mr. Tenet is facing the sort of treatment Dulles was accorded after the Bay of Pigs debacle. Upon learning of the failed invasion, Dean Acheson, Harry Truman's secretary of state, acidly observed to his old boss, ''Why we ever engaged in this asinine Cuban adventure, I cannot imagine.'' 
 As Mr. Tenet bid a sad farewell to his colleagues at the Central Intelligence Agency last week, it was hard to recall the last time a Washington spy master stepped down in triumph -- or, for that matter, the last time the nation celebrated the achievements of the C.I.A. The closest thing to a rousing success in recent years was the agency's clandestine role in the 1980's in evicting Soviet forces from Afghanistan -- though that operation inadvertently laid the groundwork for the rise of Osama bin Laden -- and the capture or killing of top Al Qaeda leaders since Sept. 11, 2001.
 In recent decades, the most notable distinction of directors of central intelligence has been their limited tenure. Until Mr. Tenet's seven-year run, the turnover rate was dizzying. There were 10 directors from 1973 to 1997, when Mr. Tenet was appointed.
 The casualty rate, and the C.I.A.'s reputation, were not always so dismal. Though the agency has courted trouble almost from the day it was born in 1947, there was a halcyon era: the 1950's. 
 It was a time of expanding ambitions for the C.I.A., when its founding generation -- many from Yale, Princeton and other elite universities -- came to Washington to serve secretly on the front lines of the cold war. Raw practices that the agency would later come to rue, including assassination plots and expedient alliances with repressive foreign security services, first appeared in the 1950's, but the small circle of people who knew about them ardently believed that the hard-boiled methods were justified by the need to contain the Soviet threat.
 Before his unhappy departure in 1961, Dulles spent most of his nearly nine years as director building a first-class intelligence agency, a pioneer in espionage science and technology. At the direction of President Dwight D. Eisenhower, he reluctantly took the lead in developing exotic hardware that revolutionized the spy business, including highflying spy planes and satellites. Eisenhower's decision to turn the projects over to the C.I.A. instead of the Air Force -- he thought the agency was more nimble and better at keeping secrets -- gave it an important new role that produced some prized accomplishments, including the first photo reconnaissance satellite in 1960.
 The C.I.A. prospered, in part, because Dulles operated in a freewheeling environment that most of his successors would have envied. Congressional intervention was almost nonexistent. Only a handful of House and Senate leaders were kept informed, and even those limited consultations were treated like chummy conversations at a well-heeled men's club.
 The Washington press corps was much smaller and less aggressive than it is today. There were no embarrassing headlines about the agency's serial failures to get its first spy satellite into operation, for example, because reporters didn't know that the rockets blowing up on a launch pad in California were part of a secret project.
 Even the most audacious covert operations -- the installation of a pro-American leader in Iran in 1953 and a coup in Guatemala a year later -- largely escaped public scrutiny and only enhanced the reputation of the C.I.A. in the classified corridors of Washington.
 The turning point was the Bay of Pigs invasion, an improbable scheme cooked up in the final months of the Eisenhower administration that presumed that a small force of Cuban exiles trained by the C.I.A. would ignite an uprising against Fidel Castro, the Cuban leader. The failed attempt, just weeks after John F. Kennedy's inauguration, taught the new president and the nation about the dangers and embarrassments of misconceived covert operations. It has been mostly downhill ever since for the C.I.A., at least in terms of public esteem. 
 Part of the reason for this is the nature of the work. The C.I.A.'s victories are often shrouded in secrecy for decades. ''What you have achieved in this fight against a clever, fanatical enemy around the world -- the cells destroyed, the conspiracies defeated, the innocent lives saved -- will for most Americans be forever unknown and uncounted,'' Mr. Tenet told his colleagues last week.
 But there is more to it than that. If the C.I.A. sometimes seems cursed, it may be because the agency lives at the hazardous intersection where America's noble aspirations cut across the coarse exercise of power. Since its creation, the agency has struggled to live by the principles of a democratic society while sporting brass knuckles and slugging it out with the world's thugs.
 It's nearly an impossible balance to maintain, and most men who have left the director's job with their reputations in tatters ran into trouble when they forgot that serving the president unswervingly is not always synonymous with serving the nation.
 William E. Colby spent a good part of his brief tenure as director in the mid-1970's explaining to Congressional committees why the C.I.A. had tried for years to knock off unfriendly foreign leaders and engaged in other brutish and bizarre dirty tricks. The answers could often be found in opaque directives -- some never committed to paper -- that commissioned the C.I.A. to do whatever was necessary to execute the president's secret policies. The Senate inquiry, led by Frank Church, found that ''if the intelligence agencies act in ways inimical to declared national purposes, they damage the reputation, power and influence of the United States abroad.''
 They can also do damage by feeding presidents assessments that conform with White House policies, even if the supporting evidence is more ambiguous. Mr. Casey indulged in that practice by supplying President Ronald Reagan with alarming reports about Soviet influence in Central America that many intelligence analysts at the time thought exaggerated the threat. 
 Arguments still rage in Washington over whether the C.I.A. deliberately understated the economic decline and political instability of the Soviet Union in the 1980's. It is hard to divine whether the fault was insufficient data, inept analysis or a desire, however shaded, to remain in line with White House policy. 
 Forthcoming reports from Congress may help determine whether the C.I.A. under Mr. Tenet misjudged the intelligence about Iraq's illicit weapons or told the White House what the agency thought it wanted to hear. 
 Mr. Tenet leaves a mixed legacy. The C.I.A.'s failure to detect that Osama bin Laden was planning a devastating strike within the United States on Sept. 11 and its misreading of the Iraqi threat overshadow, at least for now, his strenuous efforts to strengthen the agency's clandestine service and create a crack counterterrorism force. 
 As he awaits the verdict of history, Mr. Tenet can find a measure of comfort in the partial rehabilitation of Dulles's reputation in the years after he resigned. His recovery shows it is possible to come back from a headlong fall. Just days after the Cuban invaders were routed at the Bay of Pigs, Robert F. Kennedy ran into Dulles and observed, ''He looked like living death.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Allen W. Dulles, the director of central intelligence, in 1953. (Photo by Bettmann/Corbis) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); ESPIONAGE (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); HISTORY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); AL-QAEDA (89%); AIRPORTS (89%); HIJACKING (79%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); COLD WAR (77%); ASSASSINATION (76%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (60%) Terrorism; World Trade Center (NYC); United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism; Atomic Weapons; Biological and Chemical Warfare; Airlines and Airplanes; Hijacking

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (92%); AL-QAEDA (59%) Central Intelligence Agency; Al Qaeda (Terrorist Group)

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (68%) Philip Taubman; George J (Dir) Tenet; Osama Bin Laden

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%) New York City; Washington (DC); Iraq

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2004



148 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; SundayBusiness; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2924 words

HEADLINE: Lockboxes, Iraqi Loot And a Trail To the Fed

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY L. O'BRIEN

 BODY:
WHEN a United States Army sergeant broke through a false wall in a small building in Baghdad on a Friday afternoon a little over a year ago, he discovered more than three dozen sealed boxes containing about $160 million in neatly bundled $100 bills. 
 Later that day, soldiers found more cash in other hideaways near the Tigris River, in an exclusive neighborhood that elite members of Saddam Hussein's government once called home. By the end of the evening, they had amassed 164 metal boxes, all riveted shut, that held about $650 million in shrink-wrapped greenbacks. The cash was so heavy, and so valuable, that the Army needed a C-130 Hercules cargo plane to airlift it to a secure location.
 Just two days later, on Sunday, April 20, 2003, Thomas C. Baxter, head of the legal unit of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, read a brief news account of the discovery. Most of the money that turned up in Baghdad was new, bore sequential serial numbers and was stored with documents indicating that it had once been held in Iraq's central bank. One fact particularly bothered Mr. Baxter: the money had markings from three Fed banks, including his own in New York. 
 Iraq, of course, had been subject to more than a decade of trade sanctions by the United States and the United Nations, so large piles of dollars, especially new bills, were not supposed to have found their way to Baghdad.
 ''How could that happen?'' Mr. Baxter thought to himself, as he recalled later in Senate testimony. ''Not only with U.S. sanctions, but with U.N. sanctions. How could that happen?''
 Mr. Baxter and the New York Fed, along with the Treasury Department and the Customs Service, immediately began an investigation into Baghdad's currency stockpile. The continuing inquiry offers a rudimentary road map of illicit dealings -- including lucrative oil smuggling -- in Iraq and neighboring countries during the Hussein years, the federal authorities say.
 The investigation led quickly to the vaults of four Western banks that were among a select group handling the sensitive task of distributing freshly printed dollars overseas: the Bank of America, the HSBC Group, the Royal Bank of Scotland and UBS. Several other commercial banks and foreign central banks, which the Fed did not name, also served as stopovers along Baghdad's money trail, according to a written account Mr. Baxter provided to the Senate Banking Committee about two weeks ago.
 None of the four main banks the Fed scrutinized had sent currency directly to Iraq. But as the inquiry wore on last year, investigators learned that UBS, Switzerland's largest bank, had transferred $4 billion to $5 billion to four other countries that were under sanctions: Libya, Iran, Cuba and the former Yugoslavia. Over an eight-year period, UBS employees had quietly shipped the money to those countries from a vault at the Zurich airport, undetected by Fed auditors who made regular visits to the site.
 EARLY last month, the Federal Reserve Board fined UBS $100 million for the currency violations. It was the second-largest penalty ever levied by America's central bank, surpassed only by a $200 million fine imposed on the Bank of Credit and Commerce International, or B.C.C.I., in 1991 for violating American banking laws. The B.C.C.I. case was part of a global investigation of fraud and money laundering. 
 UBS's transgressions don't appear to be in the same league as those at B.C.C.I. Several people briefed on the transfers said most of the UBS transactions involved currency exchanges for the Cuban tourism industry; such transactions anger Washington but do not evoke security fears in most of the world. A handful of lower-level UBS employees are said to have doctored trading records that misled their employers and American officials. All of them have been fired or have left the bank. UBS has not been charged with any crimes in the matter.
 A former Fed official and others involved in the investigation say the hefty fine reflects the Fed's displeasure at having been misled by UBS employees for so many years. Members of Congress have accused the Fed of being asleep at the regulatory switch, an added incentive for a marquee-size fine at a time when regulators of all stripes have come under fire for overlooking abuses and excesses on Wall Street. 
 Yet UBS's trades with Libya, Iran and Yugoslavia, and the investigation into how hundreds of millions of dollars circumvented sanctions and regulatory barriers on their way to Baghdad, are hardly trivial affairs. 
 Of the $680 billion in cash that the Fed has in circulation, more than $400 billion, or nearly 60 percent, is outside the United States. That overseas supply, particularly in economically unstable regions, is the financial lifeblood of businesses, and even of pensioners who stow dollars in their mattresses. The authorities constantly monitor that supply to keep counterfeiters from tainting it, and hub banks like UBS play a pivotal role in ferreting out currency forgers.
 Those billions overseas, however, also grease the wheels of more nefarious commerce -- arms trafficking, smuggling and the timeless crafts of political and financial graft. 
 The trail of the cash that soldiers found in Baghdad last year remains murky. David Aufhauser, a senior Treasury Department official who supervised investigations of Saddam Hussein's finances until October, said in an interview last year that investigators thought the funds were part of about $1 billion that Mr. Hussein's son Qusay looted from Iraq's central bank hours before American-led forces invaded in early 2003. Qusay Hussein, who was killed in a shootout with American troops in Baghdad last July, oversaw the Iraqi government's oil smuggling, according to a report published in 2002 by the Coalition for International Justice, a Washington group that monitors human rights issues. 
 From 1996 to 2003, the United Nations controlled Iraq's oil profits, which were intended to be used for food and other goods for Iraqi civilians. The United Nations has defended its stewardship, but the General Accounting Office recently estimated that oil smuggling and kickbacks linked to that program allowed Mr. Hussein to steal about $10 billion.
 The United Nations recently appointed a former Fed chairman, Paul A. Volcker, to lead a panel investigating possible fraud in the oil-for-food program. The Treasury Department says that a large Syrian bank that does business with major American banks helped divert and disguise oil-for-food funds stolen by the Hussein government. 
 Senator Richard C. Shelby, an Alabama Republican and chairman of the Banking Committee, grilled Mr. Baxter two weeks ago about the monitoring of currency the Fed ships overseas, and about the challenges that arise when some people, like UBS's former employees, cover up their use of the money.
 ''What about an oversight regime that appeared exceedingly dependent upon the voluntary compliance of the banks?'' the senator asked Mr. Baxter about the Fed's vigilance.
 Mr. Baxter responded, ''That gets into one of the fundamental problems here, and that is trying to trace bank notes once they're outside of the United States.'' Mr. Baxter, a graduate of Georgetown University Law School who has spent 23 years at the New York Fed, is well regarded by colleagues and is considered a gifted financial sleuth. One former colleague fondly described him as ''golden.''
 When Mr. Baxter, 50, began tracing the Baghdad funds last year, according to his Senate testimony, he first acquired serial numbers for some of the notes and turned over that information to Fed currency analysts in East Rutherford, N.J.
 On April 24, 2003, just four days after Mr. Baxter first read about the money, the analysts linked it to 24 cash shipments the New York Fed made to special vaults it had at HSBC in London, and Bank of America and UBS in Zurich. After American forces in Iraq discovered an additional $112 million in hidden cash, on top of the $650 million they had already found, the Fed's cashiers tracked it to the same vaults and to a Fed vault at HSBC in Frankfurt, a Royal Bank of Scotland vault in London and to other locations the Fed has not disclosed.
 All of those overseas vaults are part of a Fed program begun in 1996 to combat counterfeiting, retire worn-out dollars and keep currency circulating, especially during emergencies. For example, the vaults were opened when the Year 2000 computer problem caused banking jitters overseas four years ago and again after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks in New York grounded planes that would have normally delivered cash abroad. 
 UNTIL the mid-1990's, American currency was relatively easy to forge, compared with most other leading currencies. Its colors were not as varied, it did not bear watermarks or special security bands, and its linen and cotton composition was much like that of another currency still widely used by counterfeiters to mint fake dollars: the Hussein-era Iraqi dinar. 
 Though successful counterfeiting is usually short-lived, and fakes are just a minuscule portion of the bills in circulation, there are moments when near-perfect copies, known as supernotes, circulate for uncomfortably long periods. Phony $100 bills are the forgers' favorite. 
 In 1996, the Treasury Department was about to introduce a new, more secure $100 bill into circulation in Europe, aware that the note would be eagerly snapped up in the booming Russian economy. Also aware that sophisticated Russian criminal groups and forgers would pounce on the newly minted bill, the American authorities wanted a safe harbor in Zurich to monitor it. Republic Bank, an American bank that had once handled those duties, was leaving the business. UBS was eager to make inroads in Russia, so the Fed contracted its services.
 By the end of last May, according to Mr. Baxter's testimony, nearly all banks contacted by his team about the money found in Baghdad had identified the countries or parties with whom they had traded dollars. The exception was UBS. According to Mr. Baxter's Senate testimony, UBS initially told the Fed that it did not track the serial numbers of currency it traded and that Swiss law precluded its identifying of specific trading partners. Eventually, however, UBS agreed to identify countries. Iraq was not on the list, and that appeared to satisfy the Fed until June 25, when one of its auditors made a routine visit to Zurich. 
 That day, UBS gave the auditor a report showing that eight shipments of dollars had been sent to Iran, a country under American sanctions. UBS said its trading had been a mistake. A month later, Mr. Baxter and the Swiss Federal Banking Commission began a deeper investigation. By October, according to Mr. Baxter's testimony, the Fed had learned that UBS had also traded currency with Cuba and Libya and that employees had covered up the Cuban transactions. Mr. Baxter revoked the Fed's contract with UBS on Oct. 28. About a week later, UBS told the Fed that it had also traded currency with the former Yugoslavia, which was also under American sanctions.
 UBS declined to comment on its transactions with Libya, Yugoslavia and Iran. 
 UBS, in cooperation with the Fed and the Swiss authorities, then began an internal investigation. Over the next six months, investigators interviewed 48 UBS employees, often more than once, and reviewed several thousand documents, including e-mail messages, Mr. Baxter said in written Senate testimony.
 UBS reported the results of its investigation to the Fed on April 16, and the Fed levied its $100 million fine on May 10. Only a handful of UBS employees conducted the trades, and none took bribes or received extra income from the transactions, according to a senior investigator with the Swiss Federal Banking Commission and several others briefed on the matter. 
 But some on Capitol Hill say that there is more to be learned about the UBS transactions. Representative Michael G. Oxley, an Ohio Republican who is chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, said last week that he thought the size of the UBS fine might be inadequate ''in light of the gravity'' of the problems uncovered at the bank.
 Although Mr. Baxter's team quickly identified the source of the cash found in Baghdad, it is still not clear how it got into the hands of members of the Hussein government. 
 ''UBS never had any direct delivery to Iraq,'' Urs Zulauf, director of the Swiss Federal Banking Commission's enforcement division, said in an interview. ''They delivered to other Arab countries that were not under sanctions.''
 Jordan and Syria, two neighbors of Iraq, were routinely accused by Western politicians and law enforcement officials of helping Iraq flout sanctions during the Hussein era. But both countries have repeatedly denied those accusations. A Los Angeles Times article last year said that some of the currency found by American soldiers in Baghdad had been sent to Iraq's central bank by the Jordan National Bank. In an interview last year, an official at the Jordan bank disputed any involvement; the bank did not respond last week to calls and an e-mail message on the issue. 
 On May 11, a day after the Fed fined UBS, the federal government issued trade sanctions against Syria, saying it supported terrorism. The same day, the Treasury Department shut off access to the American banking system for Syria's main state-owned bank, the Commercial Bank of Syria, citing suspicions that transactions at the bank were used to finance terrorism and launder money related to the United Nations oil-for-food program. 
 ''Numerous transactions that may be indicative of terrorist financing and money laundering have been observed'' moving through the Syrian bank's accounts, according to a Treasury Department document, adding that the transfers include several transactions ''that reference a reputed financier for Osama bin Laden.'' 
 According to the Treasury Department, Iraq's state oil agency maintained accounts at the Commercial Bank of Syria through which oil-for-food money was diverted. Imad Moustapha, Iraq's ambassador to the United States, said in an interview on Thursday that the Syrian bank had about $265 million in funds legally deposited there by the Hussein government. He denied all accusations of money laundering and other financial improprieties involving Syria and the Hussein government, describing them as ''politically motivated'' and part of a ''campaign of disinformation about Syria.''
 The Treasury Department document says the Commercial Bank of Syria maintains correspondent accounts with a few American banks. Though not named in the document, the banks are Citigroup, J.P. Morgan and the Bank of New York. The American banks declined to comment. 
 Although the document says that unnamed American-based accounts appeared legitimate, it also says that ''suspicious wire transfers, totaling more than $1 million'' moved through those accounts on their way to the Syrian bank. 
 THE difficulty of mapping the full journey of the money found in Baghdad last year shows some of the forensic hurdles confronting Fed and Treasury investigators. But the supervision of UBS has shown some of the Fed's regulatory weaknesses. 
 ''The Fed just seemed to take UBS at their word as to where they traded the money,'' Senator Jim Bunning, Republican of Kentucky, said in a statement two weeks ago. ''As long as the bottom line matched up, the Fed didn't seem to worry that much about where the money went. UBS falsified documents, but I do not believe the Fed showed the proper due diligence.''
 When B.C.C.I.'s problems first spilled into the open more than a decade ago, Fed regulators said that the bank had lied to them and that they therefore could not have detected abuses sooner. That is the same reason they have given recently for being slow to catch problems at UBS.
 Senate testimony also suggests that the Fed may have been too credulous in its relationship with UBS.
 ''Did the Fed ever conduct unannounced audits'' of UBS? Senator Shelby asked Mr. Baxter two weeks ago.
 Mr. Baxter responded, ''I think they always knew we were coming.''
 Regulators previously walked softly around accusations of money laundering. The two biggest such investigations of the late 1990's, involving Citigroup and the Bank of New York, did not result in any regulatory fines and stalled after investigators hit dead ends in gathering evidence outside the United States. 
 But Sept. 11 changed some things. Suspect financial activities that were once perceived as an exotic form of white-collar crime are now looked upon with a tangible threat in mind: terrorist financing. For instance, the Riggs National Corporation is mired in an investigation of suspect transactions in its banking accounts and, like UBS, has found itself saddled by federal regulators with a hefty fine -- $25 million -- for regulatory violations. Riggs has denied any wrongdoing. 
 During a hearing on Thursday attended by Susan S. Bies, a Federal Reserve board governor, and William J. Fox, head of the Treasury Department's Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, the Senate Banking Committee criticized several of the country's leading regulators as moving too slowly after the Sept. 11 attacks, saying examiners might have overlooked gaps in the global banking system that may pose national security risks. 
 Asked by the House Financial Services Committee last Wednesday what mistakes the Fed made in its examinations of UBS, Mr. Baxter said, ''We did not follow the old audit admonition: trust, but verify.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Maj. Rodney King with some of the millions in cash that American troops found during raids in Iraq in April 2003. (Photo by Polaris)(pg. 1)
Clockwise from upper left are Thomas C. Baxter of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, Senator Richard C. Shelby of Alabama, William J. Fox of the Treasury Department and Susan S. Bies, a Fed governor. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)
(Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)
 (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. 7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); ARMIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (88%); INVESTIGATIONS (85%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); ARMED FORCES (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); SMUGGLING (67%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (67%); HOLDING COMPANIES (65%); TERRORISM (59%) Terrorism; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Currency; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Fines (Penalties); United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (83%); HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (83%); ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (63%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (55%); UBS SA (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); UNITED NATIONS (54%) Federal Reserve Bank of New York; Treasury Department; Customs Service (US); Bank of America; Hsbc Holdings; Royal Bank of Scotland Plc; Ubs Ag; Federal Reserve System

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); HSBA (LSE) (83%); HSB (PAR) (83%); HBC (NYSE) (83%); 0005 (HKSE) (83%); RBS (NYSE) (63%); RBS (LSE) (63%); RBS (AMS) (63%); BAC (NYSE) (55%); BAC (LSE) (55%); 8648 (TSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (83%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (83%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (79%); RICHARD SHELBY (70%) Timothy L O'Brien; Saddam (Pres) Hussein

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); SWITZERLAND (72%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2004



149 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1015 words

HEADLINE: Driven by Wealth and Patriotism, Chinese Collectors Bid for Their Treasures

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ

DATELINE: HONG KONG 

 BODY:
When Sotheby's opens the bidding on some prize Chinese antiquities at its New Bond Street auction rooms in London on June 9, more than a dozen mainland Chinese art collectors will be there. 
 The rise of the Chinese art buyer has been swift and spirited. Five years ago private art collectors on the mainland were virtually unheard of. Now, driven by plenty of money and a patriotic rush to return treasures smuggled away over the centuries, Chinese collectors are bidding here as well as in New York and London. 
 Their emergence is another reminder, subtler than others but persuasive, of China's multifaceted reach beyond its surging economy. Growing personal affluence and in some cases outright fortunes, are spawning Chinese cultural and social interests abroad that are likely to be enduring.
 ''There are a lot of industrialists, a lot of money floating around,'' said Dr. S. Y. Yip, a well-known Hong Kong collector of Ming furniture. ''You buy cars, houses, boats, then you buy some culture. It's the same all over the world.''
 The recently finished spring sales in Chinese art at Christie's and Sotheby's in Hong Kong posted some record prices, in part, because of the play of the mainland Chinese, both houses said. 
 People first noticed China's desire to repatriate its plundered art when the Poly Art Museum in Beijing acquired three ancient bronze animal heads that had been looted when French and British troops razed the Summer Palace in 1860, one of the spectacular humiliations of China during the Western invasion.
 The museum, a subsidiary of a Chinese arms company, paid $4 million for the pieces at Sotheby's in Hong Kong four years ago, a fairly stiff price.
 The museum made a lot of noise about the purchase, and announced the bronzes were specifically bought to ''return to the motherland.'' Since then, it has been actively buying, most recently what it called a ''rare national treasure'' dating to the Western Zhou dynasty of 3,000 years ago, bought in Hong Kong in May. 
 ''Once the Poly Art Museum thinks they should buy something, they go crazy,'' said Dr. Yip, who had just returned from a trip to Beijing. 
 After this museum's entrance into the market, auction houses noticed Chinese businessmen showing interest. Xu Qiming, China's biggest exporter of eels, dominated the sale of a fine American collection of Chinese porcelain at Doyle's auction house in New York last fall. The porcelain was owned by F. Gordon Morrill and his wife, Elizabeth Hunter, and Mr. Xu's exuberant purchasing showed that the Chinese were interested in provenance as well as quality. In the same auction season, Lu Hanzehn, a major tire manufacturer, paid $1.5 million for a double-gourd Qing dynasty vase that was valued at less than $200,000. 
 The Western auction houses do not have licenses to sell in mainland China. So they have been quick to coax potential Chinese buyers to travel to their traditional sales rooms. For the coming London sale, Sotheby's is helping the collectors arrange their visas and travel plans, and the group will be squired around by Wang Jie, the representative for the auction house in Shanghai. 
 In some cases the auction houses have tailored their catalogs accordingly. In the Hong Kong spring auctions, Sotheby's fashioned a sale called ''The World of Qianlong.'' There were seals, lacquer chests, celadon vases, Buddha figures, a ceremonial court costume from the period 1736 to 1795, when Emperor Qianlong, a mega-collector himself, reigned. 
 Henry Howard-Sneyd, Sotheby's Hong Kong-based director for China and Southeast Asia, compares the Chinese fascination with Qianlong art to the American interest in the belongings of Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis. Just as Americans were impressed by the celebrated name, so some Chinese collectors covet the Qianlong patrimony, he said. But over all, Mr. Howard-Sneyd said, the Chinese were buying from a ''sense of bringing history back to China.'' To that end, auction houses in China itself are receiving consignments of Chinese art from abroad and selling to eager buyers at home. In May the Guardian Auction Company in Beijing sold for $4.3 million an 18th-century silk weaving designed at the behest of Emperor Qianlong with calligraphic renderings of a poem by a fourth-century poet. 
 The buyer later told The China Daily that the piece was bought for a ''private Chinese museum.'' One thing is for sure, Dr. Yip said, ''all the American Chinese and Hong Kong Chinese were outbid by the locals.'' 
 The drive to bring Chinese art home is beginning to spread beyond antiquities. Alice King, who runs one of Hong Kong's most distinguished 20th-century art galleries, Alisan, recently took a show of paintings by Chao Chung-hsiang to the National Art Museum of China in Beijing, and the Shanghai Art Museum.
 Chao, a student of Lin Fengmian, the revered founder of the Hangzhou Art Academy, left the mainland for Taiwan in 1948 and continued to paint there, as well as in Europe and in America. His canvases in bold splashes of color mix acrylic and ink. Some deep blue paintings are reminiscent of Joan Mitchell, the New York Abstract Expressionist. 
 Ms. King said she was encouraged that the Beijing Art Museum acquired two of Chao's works for its permanent collection. 
 So far China's new collectors have zeroed in on the familiar -- traditional works they recognize from history -- and have shown little taste for contemporary painting. But now the museum is showing the way. ''Hopefully that acquisition will encourage others,'' she said. 
 The Chinese still have a way to go before they reach stratospheric prices the Japanese paid in the 1980's and early 1990's for Impressionist paintings. The Chinese may not be in the same league as collectors who pay $104 million for a Picasso. They have yet to collect outside their own Chinese-centric sphere. 
 But it may not be long before their horizons expand. ''The big move will be seen when they start to pay really big money for Chinese art,'' Mr. Howard-Sneyd said. ''The ultimate move will be when they start to compete with the big boys in New York.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Chinese art buyers examine a rare Northern Song Dynasty vase, part of an auction of Chinese works at Sotheby's in London this week. (Photo by Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)(pg. E5)
Ming vase at Sotheby's in London, which is coaxing buyers from mainland China. (Photo by Sotheby's)
 Alice King, who runs a Hong Kong art gallery, with works by Chao Chung-hsiang. (Photo by Jeremy Stigter for The New York Times)(pg. E1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (90%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (90%); ART COLLECTING (90%); ART DEALERS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); SMUGGLING (73%); ARCHAEOLOGY (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); TIRE MFG (50%); ARMED FORCES (50%) Art; Collectors and Collections; Archaeology and Anthropology; Auctions; Chinese Civilization; Art

COMPANY: SOTHEBY'S (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Sotheby's

TICKER: BID (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (92%); SIC5963 DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (92%)

PERSON: Jane Perlez

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (94%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%) CHINA (96%); HONG KONG (95%); UNITED STATES (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (73%) China

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2004



150 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; 'Fill 'er Up,' With Apartments; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1035 words

HEADLINE: Value of Gas Stations' Land Rises Even Faster Than the Price of High-Test

BYLINE: By SHERRI DAY

 BODY:
Note to motorists: Do not become attached to a gas station in Manhattan. It could be replaced by an apartment building tomorrow.
 Although gas stations are shutting down with increasing frequency throughout the city, the closures are particularly acute in Manhattan, where real estate developers, as always, are racing to acquire underdeveloped land.
 Since 1999, the number of gas stations in Manhattan has declined by 18 percent, to 207, according to the Fire Department, which maintains a record of gas stations in the city. Cropping up in their places are everything from condos to clothing stores. 
 In NoHo, on Houston Street between Crosby Street and Broadway, for example, an office building and showroom complex is being built on the site of a car wash and Amoco gas station. A Mobil station at 92nd Street and First Avenue was razed last summer to make way for a 32-story luxury apartment building and hotel. On 59th Street and West End Avenue, a Gaseteria will be replaced by an apartment tower. And in West Harlem, the city and Columbia University are interested in rezoning and perhaps redeveloping an area that includes several gas stations. 
 ''Typically, gas stations are located on corners or full blocks and therefore they make ideal development sites,'' said Charles B. Kingsley, a senior director at Cushman & Wakefield, the commercial real estate firm. 
 Ori Apple, who owned the Mobil station at 92nd Street and First Avenue for 15 years, has opened another automotive business, in Inwood.
 ''Business was good, but the owner sold the land, so we had to leave,'' said Mr. Apple, whose landlord paid him to vacate the station last summer. At his new location, ''we don't have a gas station,'' he said. Because his new property is small, he said, oil change, car wash and detailing services ''are a better business.'' 
 Vanished gas stations could mean more than mere inconvenience. Analysts said that fewer stations were likely to result in higher prices at the remaining pumps because of decreased competition. 
 Demand for the land under Manhattan stations is just one of the factors affecting station owners and operators. 
 The fortunes of operators were not always so bleak. In the early 1950's, owning a gas station catapulted many small-business owners down the road to wealth as more Americans bought cars, began commuting to work and set off on cross-country road trips. Much like franchisees in fast-food restaurants, station operators often worked long hours in their businesses and tied their fortunes to a single operation. 
 But by the 1970's, environmental concerns and the rising costs associated with building new gas stations helped to stymie the growth of independent operators and refiners, analysts said. 
 Gas station closures accelerated in 1995, when the major oil companies began to consolidate and merge low-volume stations. By operating only their most profitable gas stations, analysts said, oil companies could offer consumers slightly lower prices at the pump, while selling independent dealers gasoline at higher prices. 
 Some independent dealers are struggling now, they said, because oil companies no longer provide them with subsidies for station repairs and rising rents. And, despite escalating gasoline prices, many dealers claim they are not seeing increased profits at the pump. Their margins are also being undercut by rising credit card fees.
 ''We're not making more money,'' said Ralph Bombardiere, the executive director of the New York State Association of Service Stations and Repair Shops. ''This is hurting us, and our volumes are dropping. There are cheaper gases out there, and people become more price-conscious, and we can't compete.''
 These conditions create headaches for dealers who rent their stations from oil companies or other landlords. Dealers who own their properties are in a much more secure position.
 Carmie L. Elmore Jr. bought his station, on Frederick Douglass Boulevard, in 1980. At the time, drugs and violence plagued the neighborhood. These days, his station, which abuts Central Park, is in a bustling, desirable locale. So Mr. Elmore has been asked many times to sell the station to make room for a high-rise something.
 ''We took a chance,'' said Mr. Elmore, 59. ''Now that things are turning around, I definitely don't want to go anywhere. Brokers are always coming around, but I just tell them, 'No. Period.'''
 Marcello Porcelli and his father, Oscar, who own the Gaseteria chain of gas stations, are pursuing a different survival tactic.
 ''We're becoming real estate developers,'' said Marcello Porcelli, the company's president. ''It just didn't make sense for the little guy to keep competing against the 800-pound gorilla. We figured if we can't beat them, join them.''
 As property owners, the Porcellis have leased 25 of their stations throughout the metropolitan area to BP Amoco.
 Although the stations are being remodeled and outfitted with amenities like gourmet-coffee machines, Mr. Porcelli said he may eventually decide to level some of them to make way for more profitable developments. 
 ''Real estate values are too substantial to pass up the development opportunity and keep gas stations open,'' Mr. Porcelli said.
 Within the next year, Mr. Porcelli expects to tear down the Gaseteria station at Houston Street and Avenue B and begin constructing an apartment building. He also plans to redevelop a Gaseteria at 119th Street and First Avenue. 
 In the next decade, analysts and operators envision a Manhattan with few gas stations. They are likely to be big -- at least by Manhattan's standards -- boxy superstations owned by multinational corporations. 
 Some of Manhattan's testiest drivers are already taking issue with the changing landscape. 
 ''We're in big trouble,'' said S.A. Rashid, a taxi driver who was handing off his cab to its night shift driver at the Amoco station at Houston and Lafayette Streets. ''Cabdrivers and tourists depend on gas stations' bathrooms. Sometimes I lose a half an hour or 45 minutes looking for a bathroom.''
 At the Exxon station on 10th Avenue at 23rd Street, Syed Arif, 32, had a different set of woes.
 ''Last week at Houston and Lafayette,'' he said, ''they didn't have gas.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: An apartment building will replace a gas station at 59th Street and West End Avenue. Many Manhattan gas stations are vanishing as real estate developers seek land. (Photo by John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times)(pg. B1)
S.A. Rashid, a cabby, said that fewer gas stations also mean a shortage of bathrooms for drivers.
 The Gaseteria station at 59th Street and West End Avenue is one of those in Manhattan giving way to an apartment building. (Photographs by John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times)(pg. B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAS STATIONS (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (77%); TRENDS (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); SMALL BUSINESS (75%); FRANCHISING (75%); CAR WASHES (75%); ZONING (73%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (72%); FRANCHISEES (70%); RESTAURANTS (70%); FAST FOOD (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (55%) Garages and Service Stations; Shutdowns (Institutional); Renting and Leasing; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Credit and Money Cards; Air Pollution; Economic Conditions and Trends; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Garages and Service Stations

COMPANY: CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (58%); AQUANTIVE INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (58%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (58%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (58%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (56%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (56%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (56%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (56%)

PERSON: Sherri Day

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2004



151 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1378 words

HEADLINE: SHARON ADVANCES TOWARD REMOVAL OF SOME SETTLERS

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, June 6 

 BODY:
Prime Minister Ariel Sharon coaxed Israel on Sunday toward evacuating some settlements next year, winning approval from his right-wing coalition government to begin preparing for what he calls ''disengagement'' from the Palestinians of the West Bank and the Gaza Strip.
 The government decision fell far short of what Mr. Sharon originally had sought -- approval for his plan to evacuate all 21 settlements in Gaza and 4 small ones in the West Bank. Instead, the government said any withdrawals would require further votes, to be held next year. 
 But through a mix of compromise and calculated bullying, including the abrupt dismissal of two far-right ministers before the vote, Mr. Sharon appeared to be advancing toward his goal despite fervent rightist opposition. Having already converted what was once a derided dovish notion -- the unilateral evacuation of settlements -- into the subject of mainstream debate, he edged it on Sunday toward official policy. 
 His advisers said the vote would permit him to pursue his plan while preserving his coalition and forestalling parliamentary elections, buying him months to build more domestic and international support. 
 But it was not immediately certain that a crucial pro-settler party, the National Religious Party, would remain in the government. Mr. Sharon's plan has also opened deep fissures within his own party, Likud.
 The gingerly worded compromise approved Sunday night did not guarantee the evacuation of any settlements. The first vote on taking that step might not be held until March. But Mr. Sharon and his opponents left no doubt they saw the decision as portending an Israeli withdrawal.
 ''Today the government decided that by the end of 2005 Israel intends to leave Gaza and four settlements in Samaria,'' or the northern West Bank, Mr. Sharon said during a speech here after the vote. ''The majority in Israel understands the immense importance of this decision. This is a decision that guarantees the future of Israel.''
 In giving up all of Gaza and some of the West Bank, Mr. Sharon is bidding to retain large West Bank settlements, a goal embraced in the vote on Sunday. 
 The Palestinian prime minister, Ahmed Qurei, said Palestinians welcomed an Israeli withdrawal ''if the withdrawal is total and comprehensive, which includes dismantling all the settlements.''
 The Bush administration called the withdrawal plan ''a courageous and historic step.''
 ''We urge that practical preparatory work to implement the plan now proceed as rapidly as possible in Israel,'' the statement said.
 Mr. Sharon is acting without seeking a peace agreement. He asserts that the Palestinian leadership is not a credible negotiating partner but that Israel must act now to avoid ceding more land in an eventual, internationally imposed solution.
 Before the vote on Sunday, an Israeli court in Tel Aviv sentenced a prominent Palestinian leader, Marwan Barghouti, to five consecutive life terms, plus 40 years. Mr. Barghouti, who has challenged Israel's right to try him, was convicted last month of involvement in attacks that killed four Israelis and a Greek monk.
 An advocate of a two-state solution who was once seen in Israel as an appealing pragmatist, Mr. Barghouti was found by the court to be ''up to his neck in terror activity.''
 On entering the court, Mr. Barghouti, in a brown prison uniform, called for the Palestinian uprising to continue. ''This occupation is dying, and they had better start preparing for its funeral,'' he said.
 After the vote, some ministers said they feared that the decision jeopardized Israel's hold on Gaza. 
 ''There are no word launderers or terminology gambits that can conceal the fact that the government of Israel reached one of the darkest and most terrible decisions in its history,'' Effie Eitam, the housing minister and the leader of the National Religious Party, told reporters.
 Mr. Eitam described the vote as a ''decision to cast out thousands of Jews from their homes and establish a Hamas state of terror,'' a reference to a Palestinian militant group with widespread support in Gaza. 
 Until Sunday evening, it was not certain that the government would actually vote, and the intricate maneuvering at times veered toward farce. One of the two ministers whom Mr. Sharon had dismissed Friday, Benyamin Elon, hid rather than accept the letter of dismissal, believing that an arcane Israeli law would permit him to vote if he could duck the letter through the weekend. But Israel's high court ruled Sunday that Mr. Elon, the tourism minister, should consider himself fired.
 Some Israelis saw in Mr. Elon's flight a metaphor for an attempt by Israel to avoid reckoning with its occupation of the West Bank and Gaza, seized in the 1967 war.
 ''Benny Elon represents the story of Israeli politics these past 37 years,'' the commentator Nadav Eyal wrote Sunday in the newspaper Maariv. ''This morning, which will perhaps one day be remembered as the dawn of an historical day, proves that for too long the political establishment hid from the truth,'' that settlements could not endure.
 In the end, Mr. Sharon prevailed in his cabinet by a vote of 14 to 7. He won the backing of three crucial ministers from his own faction. The three, including Mr. Sharon's chief rival in Likud, Benjamin Netanyahu, had retreated from their grudging support for his original proposal after it was decisively rejected in a Likud referendum last month. 
 That vote, following a strong endorsement of Mr. Sharon's original plan from President Bush, was an embarrassment for the prime minister and threw his plan into doubt.
 But, presented with the compromise proposal, the three ministers also confronted a political reality -- broad public support for a withdrawal from Gaza.
 Further, if this coalition had broken apart over the withdrawal plan, Mr. Sharon could have turned for support to the left-of-center Labor Party. That might have cost the Likud ministers their portfolios and resulted in a far broader evacuation of settlements. 
 The fear that Labor could pull Mr. Sharon to the left appeared to be restraining the National Religious Party from bolting from the coalition. Zevulon Orlev, a minister from that party, said he wanted to avert Labor influence that could produce ''a jumbo disengagement.''
 A senior Sharon adviser said the prime minister's challenge now was to prevent any opponent from emerging who could summon a blocking majority of 61 votes in the 120-seat Parliament. That way, the adviser said, Mr. Sharon can make it through the summer session of Parliament and into the fall, while committees formed to prepare to relocate and compensate settlers complete their work. Mr. Sharon must also survive continuing legal inquiries, including a bribery investigation. 
 The adviser predicted that Mr. Sharon had gained at least six months. ''By then, the committees will have completed their planning, and he can move forward to the next stage, which may require, eventually, a change in the composition of the government,'' he said. ''But as time passes, one must understand, you garner more domestic support.''
 He compared Mr. Sharon's approach to the right to giving bitter medicine to a child: ''You mix it a little bit with sugar, and you give him little sips, one at a time, one at a time. We want to cure the patient.''
 In his speech on Sunday night, Mr. Sharon added a significant argument in support of his disengagement plan. On the left and increasingly on the right, Israelis have warned of a Palestinian ''demographic threat'' -- that Arabs will become a majority in Israel and the occupied territories within a few years. Those Israelis have argued that once the balance of populations shifts, Israel will be forced to abandon either its Jewish identity or its democratic character.
 By giving up Gaza, which has 1.3 million Palestinians and only 7,500 Jewish settlers, Israel could defer this demographic challenge for many years. Mr. Sharon has played down the demographic issue, which settlers spurn as ignoring their biblical claims to the land. 
 But in his speech, Mr. Sharon said of the vote, ''This is a decision that is good for the security of Israel, its diplomatic status, its economy, and is good for the demography of the Jewish people in Israel.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Prime Minister Ariel Sharon won government approval yesterday for plans to evacuate some settlements in Gaza and the West Bank. Meanwhile, Palestinians in Gaza tried to cross into Israel to find work. (Photo by Associated Press)
 (Photo by Pool photo by Menahem Kahana)(pg. A6)Map of Israel highlighting Gaza and the West Bank: Israel will prepare to close some Gaza and West Bank settlements. (pg. A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); POLITICS (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); APPROVALS (73%); RELIGION (69%); SENTENCING (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) Palestinians; Sentences (Criminal); Politics and Government; Legislatures and Parliaments; Elections

PERSON: James Bennet; Ariel (Prime Min) Sharon; Marwan Barghouti; Ahmed (Prime Min) Qurei

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (96%); UNITED STATES (79%) Israel; West Bank; Gaza; Israel; Israel; Israel

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2004



152 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1281 words

HEADLINE: Milk Still Fortifies the Bones, but What About the Wallet?

BYLINE: By LYDIA POLGREEN

 BODY:
It is a vital fluid -- sold by the gallon -- and it fuels a good portion of the city's economy in countless ways. But after a couple of years of lying low, its price has crept up, at first stealthily and then alarmingly, and is now more than $4 a gallon.
 The fluid is not gasoline, whose rising price -- in some places premium can cost nearly $3 a gallon -- has stunned the nation. It is milk, and its power can be found in a cheese-laden slice of pizza or on a bagel and schmear, in a humble cup of 75-cent light-with-two-sugars coffee from the corner cart to the $5 whipped concoctions at Starbucks. And its growing cost has business people like Ashish Roy, who opened Bergen Bagels on the quietly booming Myrtle Avenue in Brooklyn two years ago, worrying about how to survive.
 ''It is very simple,'' Mr. Roy explained, barely looking up from a newspaper at an empty counter in his shop. ''The price of cream cheese goes way up. I still need all my employees. The rent stays the same. People don't want to pay more for bagels. So what can I do?'' 
 Milk prices increased sharply after several years of low prices drove many dairy farmers out of business, decreasing the supply. Mad cow disease in Canada made it harder to import cows, further tightening the market. 
 Milk prices are derived from a complex formula determined by the selling price of cheese on Chicago's commodities market, so high demand for cheese this year, driven in part by the craze for low-carbohydrate diets, among other factors, drove up milk prices as well.
 While the prices of milk and gasoline have shot up, these are far from the only products whose prices have risen precipitously. The New York City region has steadily outstripped the nation in inflation, by more than 30 percent, in the past few months, according to data compiled by the Bureau of Labor Statistics. In March, inflation in the region jumped 1.1 percent, and it rose again in April, the last month for which data is available, by 0.3 percent, bringing the biggest one-year jump in 11 years.
 ''We are seeing prices rise in New York at a faster level over the last couple of months than the rest of the nation,'' said Michael L. Dolfman, regional commissioner of the Bureau of Labor Statistics. ''What is driving it in New York is housing costs, clothing costs and food costs.''
 Economists are watching inflation closely to see whether it will threaten the city's nascent economic recovery. Most say rising prices are a sign of a healthy economy; pent-up demand and confidence that buyers can afford to pay more has led businesses to pass on increases they might have otherwise absorbed. 
 ''In a weakening economy it has been difficult for businesses to pass along these increases,'' said Marc M. Goloven, senior regional economist for J.P. Morgan Chase and author of a monthly newsletter on the city economy. ''But in a strengthening economy, they can.''
 But small business owners, particularly in upper Manhattan and in the city's other boroughs, say the price increases are narrowing profit margins and tempering the feel-good aura of recovery. High prices for everyday items like rent, gas, transportation and, yes, milk are making them reluctant to add employees or expand even as the economy improves, some merchants say. 
 ''I already spent six figures and four months out of commission on this place,'' said Bill Olear, who runs a recently renovated Exxon gas station down the street from Mr. Roy's bagel shop. ''High prices are cutting into my business, so there is no way I can think of hiring more mechanics or expanding.'' 
 There are the inescapable price increases that are the stuff of everyday conversation in a city where a $20 bill seems to buy less with each passing moment: the basic unit of nourishment (a slice of pizza) and the basic unit of transportation (a subway ride) have both settled in at $2. A crosstown taxi ride at rush hour can now bring the meter up to as much as $10. 
 The average apartment price in Manhattan has reached about $1 million, double what it was a decade ago. Fears of higher interest rates drove the real estate market into a frenzy earlier this year, sending housing prices higher still. The city's 18.5 percent property tax increase late last year raised real estate costs, too. 
 And those who like to look good and live well have seen sharp increases over the last few years. Designer jeans, a product New Yorkers cannot seem to get enough of, are now creeping toward the $200 mark. Order a designer cocktail at a stylish lounge in Manhattan and chances are you will be lucky to get more than $5 back from a $20 bill. The gas pumps are a source of sticker shock as well, eating into the long-awaited fare increase for taxi drivers and driving up the cost of just about everything trucked into the city, which is, well, just about everything. 
 Carmen Gonzalez, an elementary school principal, used to be able to fill the tank of her gas-sipping Honda Civic with $11 or $12. Now it costs more than $20, she said as she filled up at Mr. Olear's Exxon station, where the price was $2.29 a gallon for regular. 
 ''I have cut out a lot of trips I don't have to take,'' Ms. Gonzalez said. ''I am going to see my mother in Harrisburg every other weekend instead of every weekend now.'' 
 And then there are the increases that do not get so much notice, but inch up the prices of things people use every day, like milk. Confronted with a gallon of milk priced at $4.09 last week at a Brooklyn supermarket, a retired secretary said she would use less milk in her cereal and coffee to stretch a gallon out over a week rather than just four days.
 Gurvan Duncan said he worried about the price of vanilla. His shop, Duncan's Fish Market, on Myrtle Avenue, does a brisk business in carryout meals: barbeque chicken, fried porgies and homemade desserts like peach cobbler and sweet potato pie. He uses a lot of vanilla in those desserts, and in his candied yams. 
 ''Vanilla went up like you wouldn't believe,'' Mr. Duncan said. ''I used to pay $20 for a quart-sized bottle, and now I am paying $50. It may seem small, but does make a difference -- every little bit squeezes your margin.''
 So far, rising prices have not hampered New York's steady, Wall Street-driven recovery, economists say. 
 ''I don't think it is much of a threat to the city's economy at all,'' said Jason Bram, an economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, who follows the regional economy, noting that inflation overall is still fairly low, and that New York has outstripped the nation in inflation before, sometimes for several years. ''I think the irony is, part of the reason for the increase is because of the city's economic recovery.''
 That may be true in the case of $200 blue jeans, said Kevin Williams, who has run Kev's Copy Center on Malcolm X Boulevard in Harlem for six years, but it is not true for a photocopy. 
 ''The price of paper went from $18 a case to $21.60,'' Mr. Williams said between customers in his bustling shop. ''But no one will pay more than 5 cents a copy. If I raised it to 8 cents, everyone would go someplace else. So my profit margin shrinks,'' he said, pressing his thumb and forefinger together in the air. 
 Mr. Roy, the Brooklyn bagel shop owner, reluctantly raised his prices by a nickel after the price of 150-pound tubs of Philadelphia cream cheese rose to $270 from $210, more than 25 percent. Now a $1.55 bagel with cream cheese costs $1.60, and a 75-cent small coffee costs 80 cents. But Mr. Roy said he was afraid to go any higher. 
 ''To me, the economy has not recovered,'' he said. ''Maybe on the books it is going up. Maybe on Wall Street. But not on Myrtle Avenue. Not in my place.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Ashish Roy, at Bergen Bagels, on Myrtle Avenue in Brooklyn, is dealing with rising cream cheese costs. (Photo by Nancy Siesel/The New York Times)(pg. B3)Graph: ''A CLOSER LOOK: Milk Inflation''The average price for a gallon of milk in New York City supermarkets recently shot up to more than $4.Graph tracks the average retail price for a gallon of whole milk in the New York metropolitan area and the United States from Jan. - May 2004.(Sources by New York State Department of Agriculture and Markets
 United States Department of Agriculture)(pg. B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD PRICES (90%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (90%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (89%); CHEESE (89%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (89%); INFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); MILK (89%); PRICE CHANGES (86%); STATISTICS (85%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); DAIRY FARMING (77%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); GASOLINE PRICES (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); NUTRITION (74%); COFFEE & TEA STORES (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); DIETING (68%); BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY (64%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (52%) Dairy Products; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Milk

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (84%)

PERSON: Lydia Polgreen

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (79%) New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2004



153 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 647 words

HEADLINE: The Contrasts of Padre Island

 BODY:
So far it's been a good season for Kemp's ridley sea turtles at Padre Island National Seashore, off the gulf coast of Texas. This time of year, the females of this endangered species come ashore to lay eggs, under the watchful eyes of the staff from the National Park Service's Sea Turtle Science and Recovery lab. There's a good chance they'll find even more nests this year than the old record of 38 in 2002, though that is still a far cry from the tens of thousands of turtles that used to nest on the gulf beaches farther south.
 Padre Island is the largest undeveloped barrier island in America, and, like all barrier islands, it is a fragile place, subject to the incremental forces of wind and water as well as the blunt trauma of occasional hurricanes. The thin strip of land between the gulf and the lagoon on the mainland side is a sea of grasses and wetlands, a critical oasis for resident and migratory birds. But like most national parks, Padre Island is caught between conservation and recreation. Far worse, it is also threatened by unsightly, unnecessary and potentially damaging industrial development. 
 In this delicate world, it is disturbing to see the line of vehicles filled with tourists driving along the sand on busy weekends. But that pales beside the weekday traffic -- a convoy of huge tractor-trailers, most of them carrying well-drilling rigging. The convoy drives into the park and down the beach, preceded and followed by scouts on four-wheelers, to the far side of the island and a drilling pad the size of a suburban house lot. There, a crew is erecting a gas well, the second of 18 possible wells being developed by BNP Petroleum, a Corpus Christi company, in a project whose majority investors are Australian and Japanese.
 When Congress created Padre Island in 1962, private owners were allowed to retain the mineral rights, as well as access to any land and water necessary to extract them. The National Park Service, which administers Padre Island, has been forced to live with this absurd arrangement and to do its best to help mitigate the inherent damage of so much heavy traffic across such a fragile ecosystem.
 In other words, Americans may own the surface of Padre Island, but our collective rights are subordinate to the rights currently owned by the Dunn-McCampbell Royalty Interest -- the former owner's heirs (whose lobbyist happens to be Tom DeLay's brother) -- and leased by BNP.
 Local residents and environmentalists have pressed the government to buy and retire these mineral rights, freeing the National Seashore from drilling. The Bush administration tried unsuccessfully two years ago to provide just that kind of protection for Florida's Big Cypress National Preserve, an attempt that may soon be revived. In Florida -- a swing state, with a Bush as governor -- the administration has tended to favor popular environmental protection programs. But in Texas, a safe state for the president, there is little political pressure even to try to buy out the Padre Island mineral rights. This administration's petroleum fever -- and the recent crest in prices -- makes it even unlikelier.
 The national park system was not created to hold property for future exploitation when commodity prices were right. It was created to set aside lands in perpetuity for their inherent natural and scenic value, to preserve them for public use and to protect them from private development. On the gulf coast of Texas, oil and gas rigs abound. What does not abound -- and what is threatened now -- is undeveloped public land, a refuge not only for sea turtles but for ordinary Americans. The value of visitors to the island over time will be far greater than the profits and write-offs extracted from these wells. No economic logic can warrant the drilling of Padre Island. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONAL PARKS (92%); BEACHES (91%); ISLANDS & REEFS (90%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (90%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BIOLOGY (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (87%); MINING & EXTRACTION RIGHTS & ROYALTIES (86%); OCEANOGRAPHY (78%); WILDLIFE (78%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (78%); WEATHER (75%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (73%); ROYALTIES (73%); BIRDS (72%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (71%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (67%); WETLANDS (67%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Editorials; Land Use Policies

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CORPUS CHRISTI, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (93%); GULF OF MEXICO (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%) Padre Island National Seashore; Texas

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2004



154 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1032 words

HEADLINE: The African Maelstrom of War, Corruption, Disease and Death

BYLINE: By ROBERT I. ROTBERG

 BODY:

A CONTINENT FOR THE TAKING
The Tragedy and Hope of Africa
By Howard W. French
Illustrated. 280 pages. Alfred A. Knopf. $25.
 Africa is a tough, bittersweet beat. Its long-suffering people are too frequently caught in the crossfire of rampaging wars, afflicted in their millions with AIDS and other desperate diseases, preyed upon by greedy despots and prevented by corrupt leaders and bureaucracies from obtaining basic schooling, medical attention and access to economic opportunity.
 Africa is raw but resilient. Yet Africans learn to survive. They make do. They reap tiny crops from hard and inhospitable soils. They collect firewood or trek for water across vast distances. They pedal miles with huge bags of charcoal. They sell cast-off clothes or used flip-flops in ad hoc markets along the banks of remote rivers or, for pennies, thrust peeled oranges into the outstretched hands of thirsty and crowded long-distance bus passengers. They scrabble together some old pieces of tin and canvas and create slum shanties within sight of cities of skyscrapers.
 Africans believe. In the hard rules of fate. In themselves and in better futures. They have hope. They also flock to evangelical preachers, seek out traditional healers and sometimes put their faith in exotic nostrums. They look after one another, too, and altruism flourishes amid surprising circumstances of adversity. 
 Howard French's reporting from West Africa for The New York Times in the mid- and late-1990's superbly captured much of this maelstrom. He outwitted bribe-seeking functionaries and obstreperous soldiers, fled from mobs, wangled interviews in dangerous circumstances from marauders and mercenaries, and followed important research trails.
 ''A Continent for the Taking'' recalls much of his path-breaking coverage of West and Central Africa for The Times. He had become acquainted with the wiles and seductiveness of Africa as a college student and in the 1980's as a teacher, translator and writer. It was in Ivory Coast and then by traveling overland, goats and chickens tied to the roof, to bedraggled Bamako, the capital of neighboring Mali, and beyond that he gained a first infatuation with the chameleonlike glories of the continent.
 But there was too little time and space for communing with inner Africa when he was writing about it professionally. Politics and real trouble rapidly loomed. First and always, there were the horrors of Gen. Sani Abacha's murderous regime in Nigeria. Moshood Abiola had won an election, but General Abacha and his soldiers had imprisoned him, and the United States was paying little attention. Mr. French recounts his attempts to reveal the inner workings of the autocrat, about the Abacha administration's attempts to deal with prominent African-Americans, and about the brutal ways the military government eliminated dissidents.
 Oddly, General Abacha's soldiers had helped for a time to quiet the deadly civil war in Liberia. Families of ex-slaves from the American South had ruled there over the ''country'' people since the 1820's. A coup in 1981 gave power to ill-educated soldiers, then to a collection of warlords, and finally to Charles G. Taylor, one of the more colorful thugs of West Africa's recent past. Mr. French sketches Mr. Taylor and his rivals well, including a bitterly hypocritical news conference, and is critical of what passed for United States policy during the worst days of the Liberian retreat from sanity into butchery.
 There was as much mayhem in Congo (formerly Zaire). Mr. French's arrival there coincided with the final death rattle of Mobutu Sese Seko's kleptocracy. Thousands of miles of colonial roads were no more. Schools and clinics were gone. Disease was prevalent. (Mr. French writes movingly of the town of Kikwit, during an outbreak of ebola.)
 The country's vast copper, cobalt and diamond mines were divulging their riches to the ruler only and paying for palaces in Switzerland and France. Congo had become a lamentably failed state. ''Something definitely smelled,'' he writes, ''and the country's decomposition had become an open secret.'' 
 Civil war followed. In 1996 Laurent Kabila, an orotund sometime trader and kidnapper of Americans, emerged out of nowhere at the head of a ragtag army heading westward from Africa's great lakes toward distant Kinshasa. ''Life was breathed'' into Kabila, Mr. French reports, ''by the jubilation his rebels met in Mobutu's long-neglected countryside, and by Kabila's own treachery in eliminating potential rivals.'' But the real secrets were the hollowness of what was left of Zaire's army, and the support -- indeed direction -- that Kabila received from Rwanda. (''We in the press,'' he understates, ''were far too slow in seizing upon the recklessness of Rwanda's invasion.'' 
 Mr. French saw much of Zaire's disarray in upriver Kisangani and its surrounding refugee camps, witnessed ''ethnic cleansing'' of a typically nasty variety and realized how little Washington cared about the underlying mayhem.
 Kisangani fell in early 1997, and Lubumbashi and Mbuji-Mayi succumbed a few days later. All of Zaire was ''opening up like a crocus.'' Mr. French's account of the envoy Bill Richardson's attempt to take the measure of a strutting Kabila, in Lubumbashi, is unwittingly comic. Mr. Richardson told Kabila to clean up his human rights act, warned him that he would need help from the United States and gave the future president of Congo a New York Yankees baseball cap. After the United States and South Africa failed to arrange a soft landing, Mobutu fled overseas to die, chaos descended, and Kinshasa finally fell, hard, in May.
 Amid the despots and desperados, Mr. French also saves time for a few democrats, notably President Alpha Oumar Konare of Mali. There are vivid portraits, too, of ordinary Africans trying to find safe havens or integrity amid the wild maelstrom of war. The book also has bleak messages about the Clinton administration's foreign policy failures in Africa and some trenchant words on Africa's own responsibility for the slave trade. Mr. French clearly cares about Africa's fate and writes compellingly without providing more than implicit recipes for recovery.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Howard W. French (Photo by Stuart Isett) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); ARMED FORCES (86%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (76%); CIVIL WAR (72%); AIDS & HIV (72%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (72%); POLITICS (72%); WAR & CONFLICT (70%); INTERVIEWS (70%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (70%); WRITERS (66%); RELIGION (66%); LITERATURE (62%) Books and Literature; Reviews

PERSON: Robert I Rotberg; Howard W French

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA (94%); WESTERN AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); MALI (79%); LIBERIA (79%); NIGERIA (79%); CENTRAL AFRICA (79%); COTE D'IVOIRE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2004



155 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Tony Awards Finish Up With a Fuzzy Surprise; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1560 words

HEADLINE: Puppet Musical Wins Big, as Does 'My Own Wife'

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY; Jason Zinoman contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
''Avenue Q,'' the offbeat show about a band of furry-headed slacker puppets and their equally fuzzy human cohorts, pulled a stunning upset last night at the 58th annual Tony Awards at Radio City Music Hall, winning best musical, the evening's top prize, as well as prizes for best book and best score. 
 On the dramatic side ''I Am My Own Wife,'' Doug Wright's Pulitzer Prize-winning drama about an East German transvestite, won for best play and for its sole actor, Jefferson Mays, who plays more than 40 characters. 
 But it was the announcement of the award for ''Avenue Q,'' which began at a small Off Broadway theater before leaping to Broadway last summer, that drew gasps inside the music hall, where many spectators expected the prize to go to ''Wicked,'' a blockbuster $14 million show based on ''The Wizard of Oz'' that was considered a favorite for best musical. 
 The win by ''Avenue Q'' drew an ecstatic group of producers and performers from the show onstage. 
 ''Thank you, Broadway, for voting your heart,'' said one of the show's lead producers, Jeffrey Seller. 
 ''Assassins,'' the revival of the 1991 Stephen Sondheim and John Weidman musical about singing sociopaths, produced by the nonprofit Roundabout Theater Company, led all productions with five Tonys, including best revival of a musical and one for Joe Mantello, the director. 
 There was even a little history made, as Phylicia Rashad, who heads the cast in the revival of ''A Raisin in the Sun,'' won for best leading actress in a play and became the first African-American woman to win that prize. Ms. Rashad silenced the sell-out crowd, and thanked her parents, family and God for her win. 
 ''When I was little my mother taught me I could do anything and I wouldn't be scarred by racism,'' Ms. Rashad said later in the press room. ''This is an honor for any actress and that's the truth.''
 In one of three awards that ''Wicked'' did win, Idina Menzel, who plays a green-faced witch, took the prize for leading actress in a musical. Hugh Jackman, meanwhile, who was the host of the awards show, won for leading actor in a musical for his spirited turn as Peter Allen, the cabaret star, in the musical ''The Boy From Oz.'' The award was presented to Mr. Jackman by his Australian -- and Hollywood -- compatriot Nicole Kidman, one of several film stars brought in to boost the show's sagging Nielsen ratings. 
 Riding a season of record ticket sales, Tony voters also seemed happy to honor new talent, with several examples of it winning their first Tonys. Among them were Jeff Whitty, who wrote the book for ''Avenue Q''; Kathleen Marshall, for her choreography of the revival of ''Wonderful Town''; and Brian F. O'Byrne, who won best featured actor in a play for his portrayal of a child killer in the drama ''Frozen.'' One exception was Audra McDonald, who won her fourth Tony, at the age of 33, for her work as a featured actress in ''A Raisin in the Sun.''
 ''Henry IV'' won for best revival of a play, and its director, Jack O'Brien, won best director of a play.
 Mr. Jackman opened the show in a pinstriped suit and on key, singing ''One Night Only'' from the 1981 musical ''Dreamgirls,'' and with a phalanx of backup singers, several puppets from ''Avenue Q'' and a chorus of singing Jews from the Broadway revival of ''Fiddler on the Roof.'' Dancing alongside two dozen Rockettes, Mr. Jackman high-kicked and tossed off a few one-liners.
 ''I knew these long legs would come in handy,'' he said.
 The award-giving got off to a bit of a bumpy start when Billy Joel, after saluting the American troops who fought on D-Day, lost his place on the prompter, causing the proceedings to grind to a halt. Moments later, however, the show got back on track when the actress Jane Krakowski gave out the award for featured actress in a musical to Anika Noni Rose, who plays a hopeful schoolgirl in ''Caroline, or Change,'' a new musical by Jeanine Tesori and Tony Kushner.
 ''My middle name, Noni, means 'gift from God' and I just want to thank the Lord for the gifts I've been given,'' said a tearful Ms. Rose, accepting her first Tony.
 Michael Cerveris also won his first Tony for his performance as John Wilkes Booth in ''Assassins.'' The award was presented by Sean Combs and Ms. Rashad.
 ''This is a picture I never thought I'd see, me and Puff,'' Mr. Cerveris said with a laugh, referring to Mr. Combs. ''Thanks for proving that you don't have to kill somebody to get something like this. You can just pretend to on Broadway.''
 There were signs early on that it might be a good night for ''Avenue Q,'' after it won for its book and for its music and lyrics (by Jeff Marx and Robert Lopez). The show's producers had actively campaigned for the Tonys, sending out thousands of CD's and running large print ads in the weeks leading up to the awards. 
 Still, the show's creators, all in their late 20's and early 30's, seemed honestly shocked when their names were read.
 ''When we started writing 'Avenue Q' I was an intern,'' Mr. Marx said. ''And now we just won a Tony.'' 
 In between awards each nominated musical used its production number to try to sell its show to television viewers. Alfred Molina, who plays Tevye in ''Fiddler on the Roof,'' led his cast through ''Tradition,'' the show's signature number. And Tonya Pinkins, a nominee for ''Caroline, or Change,'' brought down the house with a solo rendition of her show's 11 o'clock number, ''Lot's Wife.''
 Before the telecast began several awards were handed out by Marissa Jaret Winokur, who won a Tony last year for her performance as a chubby dance queen in ''Hairspray.'' ''Wicked,'' which led all productions with 10 nominations, picked up two awards for design, winning for Eugene Lee's sets and Susan Hilferty's costumes. ''Assassins'' also won two early awards, for lighting (by Jules Fisher and Peggy Eisenhauer) and orchestration (by Michael Starobin).
 The Tonys -- formally known as the Antoinette Perry Awards -- are the culmination of the Broadway season, a celebration of the theater industry's financial clout and its artistic achievements. The awards include only Broadway productions -- one of the major tourist attractions in New York -- which also carry the highest costs and thus the highest risks. Productions that play Off Broadway and the work of the vast majority of nonprofit theaters in New York and the nation are not represented, though many of the Tony winners last night -- including ''Assassins,'' ''I Am My Own Wife'' and ''Avenue Q,'' began their lives at Off Broadway theaters. 
 On Broadway, meanwhile, there were many reasons to celebrate. With signs of an improving economy and a stronger tourist market, Broadway grossed a record $771 million in ticket sales during the 2003-4 season, an increase of about 7 percent from the 2002-3 season, according to figures from the League of American Theaters and Producers. 
 With 39 new productions, Broadway attracted some 11.6 million audience members, a slight increase from last season's total of 11.4 million. The increase in gross sales could be attributed to continually higher ticket prices for shows, with many musicals regularly charging $100 a seat and some so-called premium seats going for nearly $500.
 The awards, which are voted on by a group of 735 journalists, producers, theatrical unions and other theatrical professionals, are officially presented by the league, the industry's trade association, and the American Theater Wing, a charitable group that founded the Tonys in 1947.
 These organizations have often differed in their approaches to the Tonys, with the league wanting to use the broadcast as a national marketing tool and the wing preferring a more dignified ceremony devoted to artistic excellence.
 The balance seemed to shift somewhat this year as the wing changed leadership and a new set of executive producers was brought in to improve the broadcast's consistently sluggish Nielsen ratings. (Last year the show hit a nadir, drawing its lowest ratings ever -- a 5.4 -- which represented a little less than 8 million viewers.) 
 The strategy to improve the ratings included a starry roster of film and music stars as presenters, many with little or no connection to the theater. 
 In one striking example of the strange collision of stars, the rapper LL Cool J and Carol Channing shared a stage to present the award for best score. 
 ''I know when you think of the Tony Awards you don't immediately think of LL Cool J,'' he said before calling Ms. Channing out of the wings.
 The two began a hybrid rap-and-tap routine that culminated with Ms. Channing wildly flapping her arms and legs, much to the amusement of the Radio City crowd. ''I've been keeping it popping,'' Ms. Channing said. ''I've been updating my act.''
 Mr. Jackman later referenced the act by announcing after a commercial break: ''Carol Channing has just been arrested in a drive-by shooting.''
 Several early untelevised awards included one for the Cincinnati Playhouse in the Park, honored with the regional theater award, the highest -- and only -- accolade given to theaters beyond Broadway. 
 James M. Nederlander, chairman of the Nederlander Organization, which owns eight and a half Broadway theaters, received a lifetime achievement award. ''Why are my knees shaking?'' Mr. Nederlander said after slowly making his way onstage. ''I'm really a young guy of 82.''


CORRECTION-DATE: June 8, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about the Tony Awards referred incorrectly in some copies to the co-winner for best original score who said: ''When we started writing 'Avenue Q' I was an intern. And now we just won a Tony.'' He was Jeff Marx, not Robert Lopez.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Jefferson Mays, best actor for ''I Am My Own Wife,'' and Anika Noni Rose, best featured actress in a musical for ''Caroline, or Change.'' (Photographs by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. E5)
Idina Menzel was named best actress in a musical for ''Wicked.''
 Hugh Jackman, the host of last night's Tony Awards and a best-actor winner for ''The Boy From Oz,'' in the ceremony's opening number at Radio City Music Hall. (Photographs by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. E1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (92%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (92%); THEATER & DRAMA (91%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (91%); MUSICAL THEATER (90%); MUSIC (90%); AWARDS & PRIZES (89%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (66%); RACE & RACISM (62%); TICKET SALES (62%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (62%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (50%) Theater; Awards, Decorations and Honors; Tony Awards (Theater Awards); Theater ; Theater; Theater; Theater

PERSON: NICOLE KIDMAN (57%) Doug Wright; Jefferson Mays; Stephen Sondheim; John Weidman; Joe Mantello; Jesse Mckinley

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); AUSTRALIA (75%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2004



156 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1227 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-10

Sharon's Withdrawal Plan Advances After Vote
Prime Minister Ariel Sharon coaxed Israel toward evacuating some settlements next year, winning approval from his right-wing coalition government to begin preparing for what he calls ''disengagement'' from the Palestinians of the West Bank and the Gaza Strip. But the government said any withdrawals would require further votes to be held next year. A1

Remembering D-Day in France
The victors and the vanquished came together on the Norman coast to commemorate the landing exactly 60 years ago that led to Europe's liberation. President Jacques Chirac welcomed President Bush and 16 other world leaders including those from Germany and Russia. A10

U.N. Resolution on Iraq Close
The United States and Iraq submitted a military partnership plan to the Security Council in an emergency session, clearing the way for passage of a resolution conferring international legitimacy on the American-led multinational force after Iraq regains sovereignty June 30. A9

American forces released hundreds of Iraqi prisoners from the scandal-ridden Abu Ghraib prison. Violence continued with blasts killing at least 21 people in a car bombing at a military base north of Baghdad and at an Iraqi police station 40 miles to the south. A9

Journalist Killed in Saudi Capital
An Irish cameraman was shot dead and a British journalist wounded when gunmen opened fire on them as they filmed in an Islamist militant area of Riyadh, security officials and diplomats said. It was the fourth deadly attack on Westerners in Saudi Arabia in five weeks. A10

Crisis in Congo Deepens
Two United Nations peacekeepers were fatally shot in the city of Goma. There was a lull in fighting in nearby Bukavu, where dissident soldiers have laid siege to the city in recent days. The events of the last week signal the most alarming threat to peace since a power-sharing government took over a year ago. A3

Aid Workers Freed in Sudan
A rebel group in the embattled Darfur region of western Sudan released 16 international aid workers kidnapped last week, United Nations officials said. A3

Pope Seems Better After Trip
Pope John Paul II concluded his 103rd foreign pilgrimage with a relative ease that suggested the probability of a pilgrimage to the Marian shrine in Lourdes, France, planned for mid-August. A10

OBITUARIES B6

Marjorie Courtenay-Latimer
A self-trained South African naturalist who in 1938 discovered the coelacanth, a species of bony four-finned fish, she was 97. B6

M. Searle Wright
A composer, teacher and master of classic and theater pipe organ, he was 86. B6

NATIONAL A13-24

Bush Looks to Reagan For One More Campaign
Mr. Bush and his political advisers embraced the legacy of Ronald Reagan, suggesting that even in death, Mr. Reagan has one more campaign in him: this one at the side of Mr. Bush. In France, Mr. Bush heralded the late president as a ''gallant leader in the cause of freedom.'' A1

As Ronald Reagan weakened, Nancy Reagan turned into an Alzheimer's activist and a public advocate for support of stem-cell research. A1

Mr. Reagan's body will lie in the lobby of the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library and museum, so that the public can pay its respects. The coffin containing Mr. Reagan's remains will then be flown to Washington for a formal state funeral. A19

Mr. Reagan's obituary A20

Kerry Quiets Campaign
Postponing $2 million fund-raising concerts, Senator John Kerry said he would cease active campaigning until President Ronald Reagan is buried at week's end. A14

A Surge in Tornado Tourism
Tornado aficionados head to the Midwest at the sound of a tornado warning. The booming mini-industry of storm-chasers translates into tourism dollars for small-town motels and restaurants. A1

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Promising Cancer Drug Results
New drugs are showing unprecedented promise in treating kidney cancer, doctors said at the annual meeting of the American Society of Clinical Oncology. A13

Show Stars Venus and Sun
For the first time in 122 years, Venus will be seen passing between Earth and the Sun. A14

EDUCATION

Counting Special Ed Students
Maryland is making a bid to circumvent the federal No Child Left Behind laws. The state is asking to relabel students with learning disabilities as children of poverty, a big group that would camouflage any lack of academic growth. A1

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

Documents to Be the Star Of Impeachment Hearings
Public hearings by the Connecticut House committee deciding whether to impeach Gov. John G. Rowland will probably not be sensational, but there will be some larger-than-life drama when financial documents are magnified on a huge screen. The hearings begin tomorrow. B1

Photographic Freedom
Photographers gathered at Grand Central Terminal to express their outrage at the Metropolitan Transportation Authority's proposed ban on taking pictures in the subway. B3

Those Big-City Prices
The New York metropolitan region has steadily outstripped the nation in inflation, by more than 30 percent, in the past few months, according to federal statistics. A gallon of milk now costs more than $4, and premium gas is close to $3 a gallon. B1

Woman's Body Found in Trunk
The body of a woman was found by a homeless man in a trunk that was left sitting on a cluttered sidewalk in the East Village, the police said. B3

SPORTSMONDAY D1-8

Detroit Upsets Los Angeles
The underdog Pistons seized home court advantage away from the Lakers by beating them in Los Angeles in game 1 of the N.B.A. finals, 87-75. D1

ARTS E1-8

Tony Awards
''Avenue Q,'' the offbeat show about a band of slacker puppets and their human cohorts, pulled a stunning upset at the 58th annual Tony Awards at Radio City Music Hall, winning best musical, the evening's top prize. There was even a little history made, as Phylicia Rashad, who heads the cast in the revival of ''A Raisin in the Sun,'' won for best leading actress in a play and became the first African-American woman to win that prize. E1

Magic at the Box Office
The new Harry Potter film,''Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban,'' took in $92.7 million at North American box offices over the weekend, according to studio estimates. E5

BUSINESS DAY C1-20

Decency Rules Lose Steam
After awards-show expletives and Super Bowl breast-baring, federal lawmakers began pushing for legislation to rid the airwaves of material they considered indecent. But the prospects for such a measure becoming law before the November election appear far less assured than they did a few months ago. C1

Rethinking Wi-Fi Tactics
At cafes, malls and downtown business districts, there has been an explosion of Internet access points, or Wi-Fi hot spots, that let computer users log on to the Internet for free. But for all their popularity, the Wi-Fi providers are having a hard time making money. C1

Disney's Rift With Miramax
For the first time since buying the arthouse studio Miramax in 1993, Michael D. Eisner, the chief executive of the Walt Disney Company, is willing to consider selling the division to it founders and co-chairmen, brothers Harvey and Bob Weinstein, according to close associates. C1

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A26-27

Editorials: Ronald Reagan; leaving it in Las Vegas; the contrasts of Padre Island.

Columns: William Safire, Bob Herbert.

Autos D9
Metro Diary B2
Bridge E4
TV Listings E7
Crossword E2
Weather D10

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); SHOOTINGS (87%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (87%); RELIGIOUS PILGRIMAGES (84%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); PEACEKEEPING (79%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); TERRORISM (76%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (75%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (75%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); BOMBINGS (74%); ARMED FORCES (73%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (72%); WORLD WAR II (71%); POLICE FORCES (65%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (60%); FISHES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); JACQUES CHIRAC (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); ISRAEL (94%); IRAQ (94%); SUDAN (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); FRANCE (92%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2004



157 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: Level With Americans

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT. 
E-mail: bobherb@nytimes.com

 BODY:
It's not too late for President Bush to go on television and level with the American people about what the war in Iraq is costing the nation in human treasure and cold hard cash. Like members of a family, the citizens of a nation beset by tragedy have a need and a right to know the truth about its dimensions and implications.
 Last week the Army had to make the embarrassing disclosure that it did not have enough troops available to replenish the forces fighting in Iraq and Afghanistan. So in addition to extending the deployment of many of the troops already in the war zones, the Army announced that it would prevent soldiers from leaving the service -- even if their voluntary enlistments were up -- if their units were scheduled to go to Iraq or Afghanistan. 
 Thousands of soldiers will be affected by these ''stop-loss orders,'' which is the term the Army uses. Others have said that delaying retirements and blocking the departure of soldiers who have completed their enlistments will amount to a backdoor draft.
 In any event, the Army is so over-extended, stretched so dangerously thin, that most knowledgeable observers, whatever their take on the war in Iraq, have described the stop-loss policy as inevitable.
 ''They don't have enough soldiers,'' said Senator Jack Reed, a Democrat from Rhode Island who is a member of the Armed Services Committee. ''And when you don't have enough soldiers, you have to keep the ones you have longer. And that's exactly what they did.''
 The shortage of soldiers was widely recognized by insiders, but the administration never made the problem clear to the public, and never took the steps necessary to deal with it. Senator Reed, a former Army captain, told me in an interview last week that he felt the civilian leadership at the Pentagon ''should have recognized very early on that we needed a bigger army and should have moved aggressively'' to expand the force.
 ''Last fall,'' he said, ''I sponsored an amendment along with Senator Schumer on the supplemental appropriations bill to increase the Army by 10,000, just as sort of an opening salvo. And they vociferously opposed it. They lobbied against it and they killed it.''
 The stop-loss policy is the latest illustration of both the danger and the fundamental unfairness embedded in the president's ''what, me worry?'' approach to the war in Iraq. Almost the entire burden of the war has been loaded onto the backs of a brave but tiny segment of the population -- the men and women, most of them from working-class families, who enlisted in the armed forces for a variety of reasons, from patriotism to a desire to further their education to the need for a job.
 They never expected that the failure of their country to pay for an army of sufficient size would result in their being trapped in a war zone with the exit doors locked when their enlistments were up.
 Meanwhile, the rest of us have been given a pass. The president has not asked us to share in the sacrifice and we haven't demanded the opportunity to do so. We're not even paying for the war. It's being put on credit cards issued in the names of future generations.
 For America's privileged classes, this is the most comfortable war imaginable. There's something utterly surreal about a government cutting taxes and bragging about an economic boom while at the same time refusing to provide the forces necessary to relieve troops who are fighting and dying overseas.
 We should stop the madness. A president who is sending troops into the crucible of combat has an obligation to support them fully and treat them fairly.
 How many troops, really, are needed in Iraq? And for how long? Five years? Ten years? (Many thoughtful people who initially opposed the war but believe now that it would be wrong to just abandon Iraq think the U.S. will have to keep troops there for a minimum of five years.)
 There seems to be widespread agreement now that tens of thousands of additional men and women are needed in the Army. If that's so, how much would such an expansion cost? And who would be called upon to serve?
 Mr. Bush has always been quick to characterize himself as a wartime president. But he's never been candid about the true costs of war, about the terrible suffering and extreme sacrifices that wars always demand.
 Now is the perfect time to correct that failing. The nation deserves the truth. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); FAMILY (72%); LEGISLATION (71%); LOBBYING (70%); SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS (69%); APPROPRIATIONS (69%); TERRORISM (60%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

PERSON: JACK REED (58%); CHARLES SCHUMER (50%) Bob Herbert

GEOGRAPHIC: RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%) Iraq; Afghanistan ; United States; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2004



158 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 234 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

Split Between Disney And Miramax Widens
Michael D. Eisner, the chief executive of the Walt Disney Company, is willing to consider selling the Miramax studio back to its founders and co-chairmen, Harvey and Bob Weinstein, close associates say.
 While never particularly smooth, the working relationship between Mr. Eisner and the independent-minded Weinsteins has been deteriorating, most recently over whether Miramax could distribute ''Fahrenheit 9/11,'' Michael Moore's documentary strongly critical of President Bush. BUSINESS DAY, PAGE C1

Sopranos' Exit Laughing
The season finale of the HBO show had a satisfying amount of violence, psychology and dark humor, but no true tragedy and was surprisingly tame. The only way to explain it: it's a comedy. THE TV WATCH, PAGE E1

Got (Gulp) Milk?
The price of milk has climbed to more than $4 a gallon in the New York area, matching the rapid rise in gas prices in a region in which inflation outstrips the nation by more than 30 percent. PAGE B1

A Pistons Surprise in Opener
The Detroit Pistons, relying on their stingy defense and a burst of offense from Chauncey Billups, defeated the favored Lakers, 87-75, in Game 1 of the N.B.A. finals in Los Angeles. SPORTSMONDAY, PAGE D1

Venus, Crossing
Tomorrow morning, for the first time in 122 years, Venus will be seen as a small black dot crossing left to right across the Southern Hemisphere of the Sun. PAGE A14


GRAPHIC: Diagram of Venus and the Sun highlighting the position of Venus (Eastern Daylight Time) from 1 a.m. to 8 a.m. (SUNRISE IN NEW YORK: between 5-6 a.m.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (86%); EXECUTIVES (78%); FOOD PRICES (73%); MILK (73%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (71%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); OIL & GAS PRICES (68%); GASOLINE PRICES (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (95%)

ORGANIZATION: DETROIT PISTONS (82%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (55%); LOS ANGELES LAKERS (55%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (95%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (95%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (95%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (95%)

PERSON: BOB WEINSTEIN (73%); HARVEY WEINSTEIN (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2004



159 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: Deferring to Reagan, Kerry Quiets Campaign for Week

BYLINE: By JODI WILGOREN

DATELINE: TOLEDO, Ohio, June 6 

 BODY:
Postponing a pair of million-dollar fund-raising concerts, Senator John Kerry said on Sunday that he would cease active campaigning until President Ronald Reagan is buried at week's end. 
 ''We're going to suspend any sort of overtly political rallies,'' Mr. Kerry, the presumptive Democratic presidential nominee, told reporters after attending Mass at St. Anthony Shrine in Boston's financial district. 
 The fund-raisers in Los Angeles and New York City -- featuring Barbra Streisand, Neil Diamond, Billy Crystal, Robin Williams, Jon Bon Jovi, John Mellencamp and James Taylor, among others -- had been expected to yield several million dollars for the campaign and the Democratic National Committee.
 Tickets for the events, at the 2,000-seat Walt Disney Concert Hall in Los Angeles and Radio City Music Hall in Midtown Manhattan, which holds nearly 6,000, began at $250; aides refused to say how many had been sold. Reuniting the performers and rebooking those locations will be difficult.
 Besides the postponed fund-raisers, Mr. Kerry canceled trips to Arizona, Pennsylvania and back to Ohio, all expected to be important states in the November election, as well as a visit to Colorado, typically Republican turf he is hoping to contest in the fall. He does plan to travel to Los Angeles for the Wednesday graduation of his daughter Alexandra from the American Film Institute, which will probably prevent him from attending Mr. Reagan's state funeral at the Capitol on Wednesday evening. 
 He plans to spend the balance of the week in private meetings in Washington. ''I have a lot to do, don't worry,'' Mr. Kerry told reporters traveling with him. His aides said the campaign would keep its television advertisements running as normal.
 The canceled schedule comes in a week that already posed a challenge for Mr. Kerry, who would have had to compete first with President Bush's trip to Europe in honor of the 60th anniversary of the Normandy invasion, and then his convening of the G-8 summit meeting in Sea Island, Ga. Campaign aides had previously said that Mr. Kerry would talk about the economic squeeze on the middle class, trying not to interfere with the president's focus on foreign policy. 
 Now, he will have to struggle not to disappear from public view altogether.
 Here at the University of Toledo on Sunday afternoon, Mr. Kerry bowed his head for a moment of silence in Mr. Reagan's honor and edited a tribute to the late president into his keynote speech at the commencement of Bedford High School in nearby Temperance, Mich. 
 Ignoring their obvious differences -- Mr. Kerry's first flash in the Senate was leading the investigation into the Reagan administration over Iran-contra -- the Democrat praised the Republican as a ''modern giant'' who provided ''the voice of America in good times and in grief.'' 
 ''Because of the way he led, he taught us that there was a difference between strong beliefs and bitter partisanship,'' Mr. Kerry told the 372 Bedford graduates and their friends and relatives. ''He was our oldest president, ladies and gentlemen, but he made America young again.''
 Lauding Mr. Reagan's speech 20 years ago on the 40th anniversary of D-Day, as well as his leadership after the Challenger explosion, Mr. Kerry said the American spirit ''wears no political label.''
 ''In service to others and yes, in sacrifice for our country, there are no Republicans; there are no Democrats; there are only Americans and patriots,'' Mr. Kerry told the class, which includes the largest number of Bedford graduates in a single class, 26, ever to enlist in the military.
 Mr. Kerry was invited to speak at the ceremony by one of those service-members-to-be, Brandon Spader, who plans to attend the Air Force Academy this fall. Some parents had protested, since speaking spots are generally reserved for students, but the crowd rewarded Mr. Kerry with a standing ovation. 
 ''Now it is your generation's turn to find the greatness that's in you,'' Mr. Kerry told the class of 2004, in their red and silver robes. ''You are the ones who will lift this land up with your ideas and your values, with your faith and your love of family and of country.''
 He added, ''Your idealism is our hope.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator John Kerry yesterday during a moment of silence for former President Ronald Reagan at a graduation ceremony in Toledo, Ohio. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (74%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (73%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (63%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (63%); FOREIGN POLICY (60%); ANNIVERSARIES (50%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Political Advertising; Iran-Contra Affair; Presidential Election of 2004

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TOLEDO (59%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (56%); AMERICAN FILM INSTITUTE (54%) University of Toledo

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (56%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (56%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (56%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (56%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (94%); JOHN KERRY (93%); JON BON JOVI (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%) Jodi Wilgoren; John (Sen) Kerry; Ronald Wilson Reagan; Barbra Streisand

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); TOLEDO, OH, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2004



160 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 662 words

HEADLINE: Ronald Reagan

 BODY:
Ronald Reagan, who died on Saturday after his long battle with Alzheimer's disease, projected an aura of optimism so radiant that it seemed almost a force of nature. Many people who disagreed with his ideology still liked him for his personality, and that was a source of frustration for his political opponents who knew how much the ideology mattered. Looking back now, we can trace some of the flaws of the current Washington mindset -- the tax-cut-driven deficits, the slogan-driven foreign policy -- to Mr. Reagan's example. But after more than a decade of political mean-spiritedness, we have to admit that collegiality and good manners are beginning to look pretty attractive.
 President Reagan was, of course, far more than some kind of chief executive turned national greeter. He will almost certainly be ranked among the most important presidents of the 20th century, forever linked with the triumph over Communism abroad and the restoration of faith in free markets at home. 
 He profited from good timing and good luck, coming along when the country was tired of the dour pedantry of the Carter administration, wounded by the Iranian hostage crisis, frustrated by rising unemployment and unyielding inflation. Mr. Reagan's stubborn refusal to accept the permanence of Communism helped end the cold war. He was fortunate to have as his counterpart Mikhail Gorbachev, a Soviet leader ready to acknowledge his society's failings and interested in reducing international tensions.
 Mr. Reagan's decision to send marines to Lebanon was disastrous, however, and his invasion of Grenada pure melodrama. His most reckless episode involved the scheme to supply weapons to Iran as ransom for Americans who were being held hostage in Lebanon, and to use the proceeds to illegally finance contra insurgents in Nicaragua.
 Mr. Reagan showed little appetite for power, even less for the messy detail of politics. He joked about his work habits. ''It's true hard work never killed anybody,'' he said in 1987. ''But I figure, why take the chance?'' His detachment from the day-to-day business of government was seductive for a nation that had tired of watching Mr. Carter micromanage the White House. 
 The nation's 40th president was absent from the public eye for a long time before his death, but his complicated legacy endures. Although Mr. Reagan did reverse course and approve some tax increases in the face of mounting deficits -- in stark contrast to President Bush nowadays -- he was still responsible for turning the Republican Party away from its fiscally conservative roots. The flawed theory behind the Reagan tax cuts, that the ensuing jolt to the economy would bring in enough money to balance the budget, is still espoused by many of the Republican faithful, including President Bush.
 One of Mr. Reagan's advisers, David Stockman, later wrote that the real aim of fiscal policy was to create a ''strategic deficit'' that would slam the door and reduce the size of the federal government. Such thinking is far too prevalent in Washington to this day, and helps explain why plenty of conservatives don't seem all that bothered by the government's inability to balance its books. 
 When Ronald Reagan was elected, the institution of the presidency and the nation itself seemed to be laboring under a large dark cloud. Into the middle of this malaise came a most improbable chief executive -- a former baseball announcer, pitchman for General Electric, Hollywood bon vivant and two-term California governor with one uncomplicated message: There was no problem that could not be solved if Americans would only believe in themselves. At the time, it was something the nation needed to hear. Today, we live in an era defined by that particular kind of simplicity, which expresses itself in semi-detached leadership and a black-and-white view of the world. Gray is beginning to look a lot more attractive. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (78%); COLD WAR (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); HOSTAGE TAKING (71%); FOREIGN POLICY (70%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (66%) United States Politics and Government; Editorials; Presidents and Presidency (US); United States Politics and Government

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (95%); GEORGE W BUSH (53%) Mikhail S Gorbachev; Ronald Wilson Reagan

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); LEBANON (92%); GRENADA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); NICARAGUA (79%) Russia

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2004



161 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 40TH PRESIDENT: THE LIFE; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 3122 words

HEADLINE: A Champion of Small Government Who Helped Reset the World Stage

BYLINE: By MARILYN BERGER

 BODY:
To a nation hungry for a hero, a nation battered by Vietnam, damaged by Watergate and humiliated by the taking of hostages in Iran, Ronald Reagan held out the promise of a return to greatness, the promise that America would ''stand tall'' again. 
 When he first entered the White House in 1981, Mr. Reagan was a vigorous 69-year-old Republican who promised a new ''morning in America.'' He managed to project the optimism of Franklin D. Roosevelt, the faith in small-town America of Dwight D. Eisenhower and the vigor of John F. Kennedy. In his first term he restored much of America's faith in itself and in the presidency, and he rode into his second term on the crest of a wave of popularity. He used that popularity and a consummate political skill to push many of his major programs through Congress.
 But late in 1986, halfway through his second term, Mr. Reagan and his administration were plunged into turmoil by an effort to deal too rashly with the same kind of hostage crisis that he had accused President Jimmy Carter of handling too gingerly in Iran. The crisis came to be known as the Iran-contra affair and invited comparisons to Watergate as well as undermining Mr. Reagan's credibility. 
 Despite the affair, he crowned his two terms with a nuclear arms agreement with the Soviet Union that reduced the arsenals of both countries for the first time, setting the stage for a new relationship with the Soviet Union under the leadership of Mikhail S. Gorbachev. 
 It was Mr. Reagan's good fortune that in his time in office the Soviet Union was undergoing profound change and was eventually to collapse, setting off a spirited debate over his role in ending the cold war, with his supporters arguing that his tough policies were the coup de grace and his detractors attributing the end to the accumulated influence of 45 years of the United States policy of containment. Wherever the credit was due, the thaw came on his watch.

Crusader With a Script
 He won the hearts of Americans all over again in 1994 when, in a handwritten letter, he let it be known that he was suffering from Alzheimer's disease. 
 ''I now begin the journey that will lead me into the sunset of my life,'' Mr. Reagan wrote in a poignant note that once again displayed his characteristic patriotism and optimism. ''I know that for America there will always be a bright dawn ahead.'' 
 If the rise and fall and rise again of Ronald Reagan reads like the script of a made-for-television movie, the Great Communicator was indeed a made-for-television president. He was 77 at the end of his presidency, but he never lost his boyish charm or his ability to look Americans in the eye and make them feel good about themselves. ''America is back,'' he told them, and his confidence made them confident.
 His resilience and good humor after he was struck by a would-be assassin's bullet in 1981 reinforced the public's affection for him. Gliding gracefully across the national stage with his good looks and his lopsided grin, he managed to escape blame for political disasters for which any other president would have been excoriated. If the federal deficit almost tripled in his presidency, if 241 marines he sent to Beirut were killed in a terrorist bombing, if he seemed to equate Nazi storm troopers with the victims of the Holocaust, he was always able to rekindle public support. So he also became known as the Teflon President. 
 From the first moment of a political career that spanned more than two decades, Mr. Reagan was a crusader, trying to correct what he saw as the governmental excesses that began with the New Deal. He preached the gospel of self-reliance. ''Government is not the solution,'' he said over and over. ''Government is the problem.'' 
 Mr. Reagan did not change course. The America of his deepest convictions was a nation favored by God that would triumph over its adversaries abroad and its troubles at home if only it had the will to be strong and the sense to let free enterprise solve its problems.

A Prairie Heritage
 Those beliefs were a heritage of his prairie small-town beginnings. He was born at home, an apartment above a store in Tampico, a village in northwestern Illinois, on Feb. 6, 1911. His father, John Edward Reagan, who was working as a clerk in the H.C. Pitney General Store, called his newborn son ''a little bit of a fat Dutchman,'' and the nickname Dutch stayed with him.
 Mr. Reagan was later to describe his father as a hearty Irish Roman Catholic who was restless, ambitious and alcoholic. His mother, Nelle Wilson Reagan, was a gentle Scotch-Irish Protestant who passed on to her children her religious faith and her interest in amateur theater.
 Mr. Reagan attended Eureka College, a small Christian school near Peoria, Ill. By his own account, he was mainly concerned with maintaining his eligibility for football and with acting in school productions. 
 With the nation mired in the Depression, the 21-year-old graduate had few prospects. It was 1932, and with little notion of what he wanted to do, he returned to Dixon, where the family had settled after living in a series of other Illinois towns, including, briefly, Chicago. 
 He grew to admire Roosevelt, who used his masterly command of radio to steady a nation in despair, and a former teacher urged Mr. Reagan to try his own hand at radio, where he might capitalize on his interest in sports and acting. He landed a job at WOC in Davenport, Iowa, broadcasting University of Iowa football games. Soon he was transferred to WOC's sister station, WHO in Des Moines, the major Midwestern outlet for the National Broadcasting Company. He conducted interviews and covered football, swimming and track, but he became best known for his play-by-play of Major League Baseball games. 
 In 1937, on a spring training trip with the Chicago Cubs, Mr. Reagan took an airplane to Catalina Island, off Southern California. He took advantage of the trip to California to look up a friend from WHO, who by then had been in several movies. She arranged a meeting with an agent, the agent arranged a screen test, and by the time Mr. Reagan returned to Des Moines, a telegram was waiting. Warner Brothers was offering a seven-year contract beginning at $200 a week. 

Birth of the Gipper
 His first role was made to order. He played a radio reporter in ''Love Is on the Air,'' the first of many ''good guy'' parts. From the B pictures that Hollywood churned out in those years he moved up to bit parts in A movies. In three years he landed the role he coveted above all, George Gipp, Notre Dame's legendary Gipper, in ''Knute Rockne -- All American.'' The film, with its heroic deathbed scene, provided Mr. Reagan with a line he came to use to inspire political supporters: ''Win one for the Gipper.'' 
 He had parts in major movies with Bette Davis, Humphrey Bogart, Errol Flynn, Wallace Beery, Lionel Barrymore and a chimp named Bonzo. Then, in 1941, he starred in ''King's Row,'' which Mr. Reagan always called his finest picture. He played the role of a small-town playboy whose legs are amputated by a sadistic doctor. Awaking from surgery, he cries out in anguish, ''Where's the rest of me?'' That line became the title of the campaign autobiography he wrote with Richard G. Hubler before his race for governor of California.
 He made 50 movies, a number of them about World War II. ''The Hasty Heart,'' in 1950, took him overseas for the first and only time until he went into politics. In the war, poor eyesight had kept him from the front, and he spent his years in the Army making training films. But in his autobiography he wrote of wanting nothing more after the war than a good rest and time with his wife, the actress Jane Wyman; in fact, they had both been in Hollywood throughout the war. 
 Mr. Reagan had married Miss Wyman in 1940. They had a daughter, Maureen, and adopted a son, Michael. Miss Wyman divorced him in 1948, after Mr. Reagan had become active in the Screen Actors Guild. Miss Wyman told the court that although she did not share his interest in the guild, Mr. Reagan insisted that she attend meetings. Finally, she said, ''there was nothing in common between us, nothing to sustain our marriage.'' He was stunned by the divorce and often said his life did not become whole again until 1952, when he married Nancy Davis. An actress who was the daughter of a prominent Chicago surgeon, she became his political partner and adviser as well as his wife. They had two children. In addition to Nancy, Mr. Reagan is survived by those children, Patti Davis and Ron, and his son Michael. Maureen Reagan died in 2001. He is also survived by a granddaughter, Rita.
 Mr. Reagan never became a major star, but he continued to make movies and threw himself into the work of the Screen Actors Guild. He was elected president and re-elected five times, through some of the stormiest years in the history of the film industry. When he was called before the House Un-American Activities Committee in 1947 to testify about Communist influence in the movie industry, Mr. Reagan refused to name names before the committee. But the historian Garry Wills said the Federal Bureau of Investigation file on Mr. Reagan that was later released disclosed that he had named people in secret. 
 In those years Mr. Reagan was a Democrat and, as he later put it in his autobiography, ''a near-hopeless hemophiliac liberal.'' In 1950 he actively supported Helen Gahagan Douglas, the liberal Democrat who was defeated by Richard M. Nixon in a California senatorial campaign that became a portent of an era of Red-baiting. 
 But behind the scenes, as president of the Screen Actors Guild, he worked closely with the Motion Picture Industry Council to weed out Communist influence in Hollywood. 
 In 1952 the Music Corporation of America offered Mr. Reagan the role of host on one of its first major productions, General Electric Theater. In his years on the show, Mr. Reagan became the company spokesman, visiting General Electric plants to give speeches and bolster employee morale. 
 Hundreds of times a year he delivered a speech warning of a growing tide of government control and wasteful government programs. He was apparently so convincing that he convinced himself. In 1962 he changed his party registration to Republican, and two years later, with a polished version of the General Electric speech, Mr. Reagan burst onto the national political scene in a fund-raising appearance for Barry Goldwater, the Republican presidential candidate. Within a few months a group of wealthy Californians formed a committee, Friends of Ronald Reagan, to initiate his 1966 candidacy for governor.
 After Mr. Reagan defeated the incumbent, Edmund G. Brown, by almost a million votes, his friends underwrote the most expensive inaugural celebration in California history.
 In Sacramento, Mr. Reagan found a legislature controlled by Democrats who were unwilling to adopt his proposals to freeze hiring and cut the number of state employees. But time after time, the ideologue gave way to the pragmatist. Mr. Reagan signed a succession of tax increases to erase the state's deficit. Mr. Reagan, who was later to oppose legalized abortion, signed a bill that essentially permitted abortion on demand. In his two terms, the budget more than doubled and the number of state employees grew by 34,000. 
 Mr. Reagan, who had been re-elected in 1970, decided not to seek a third term. In early 1975, nearing his 64th birthday, he left Sacramento to write a syndicated column, broadcast a daily radio commentary and prepare to run for the presidency. In 1968 he briefly ran in the presidential primaries as the Republican to the right of Mr. Nixon. Eight years later he nearly wrested the nomination from the incumbent president, Gerald R. Ford.
 In the early months of the 1980 campaign, Mr. Reagan made television appearances and sought to stay above the battle, acting as if the nomination was his. But George Bush won the Iowa caucuses in January. Abruptly Mr. Reagan changed his tactics, campaigning long and hard in New Hampshire, at one point working 21 consecutive days. By demonstrating vigor, Mr. Reagan defused concerns about his age (he turned 69 in the primary campaign) and won New Hampshire, drawing more than half the votes. 
 On July 16, 1980, in Detroit, the Republican National Convention jubilantly awarded Mr. Reagan the nomination for president. His choice of Mr. Bush as his running mate was a blow to his conservative followers, but it reassured moderates who had viewed Mr. Reagan as a dangerous ideologue. 
 Two days before the election, Iran announced tough terms for the release of the American hostages, and national attention was once again focused on the year-old crisis that had frustrated Mr. Carter. On Nov. 4, Mr. Reagan's victory was so overwhelming that Mr. Carter made the earliest concession statement of any major presidential candidate since 1904.

A 9-to-5 President
 Washington had not seen a president like Ronald Reagan for a long time. He showed no lust for power. He seemed to have no need to prove that he could work harder, or longer, on less sleep than anybody. Where his predecessor was criticized for involving himself in every detail, Mr. Reagan was a 9-to-5 president, a chairman of the board. Mr. Reagan sought to perpetuate his philosophy through his appointments to the federal judiciary. By the time he left office he had appointed nearly half the sitting judges, judges who would be issuing decisions well into the 21st century.
 But before the end of Mr. Reagan's first term, more than a dozen officials in his administration faced charges of improper financial dealings, some minor, some major. There was cause to investigate some of Mr. Reagan's closest friends and advisers.
 On the afternoon of March 30, 1981, the president, in office only two months, was leaving a Washington hotel where he had addressed a union convention. As Mr. Reagan turned to hear a reporter's question, John W. Hinckley Jr., a 25-year-old college dropout with an arrest record for carrying handguns, emerged from a crowd of onlookers and shot the president and three others with a .22-caliber pistol. James S. Brady, the president's press secretary, was left with permanent brain damage; a bullet penetrated Mr. Reagan's left lung. 
 Mr. Reagan recovered his vitality with remarkable speed. Less than a month after the shooting, he addressed a joint meeting of Congress to urge passage of his economic program. What he proposed came to be called the Reagan Revolution. Almost overnight it transformed the national debate over domestic policy. From the beginning of the New Deal, the question had been what federal programs to expand. Under Mr. Reagan the question became what programs to cut. ''Feeding more dollars to government is like feeding a stray pup,'' he told the National Association of Manufacturers. ''It just follows you home and sits on your doorstep asking for more.'' 
 Reaganomics, as his economic program became known, was based on the theory that a cut in taxes would stimulate economic growth, generating higher revenues and making the deficit disappear. In the 1980 Republican primaries Mr. Bush called this supply-side plan ''voodoo economics.'' And Mr. Reagan's own director of the budget, David A. Stockman, suggested that the president was simply proposing a repackaging of economics intended to favor the rich, whose gains would ultimately trickle down through the rest of the economy. When Mr. Reagan accepted the Republican nomination for re-election in the summer of 1984, in Dallas, he told the delegates that Americans confronted a choice: a government of pessimism and fear or a government of hope, confidence and growth. Walter F. Mondale, his Democratic opponent, he said, did not represent mainstream America. On Nov. 8, Mr. Reagan scored one of the biggest victories in American political history, winning 525 electoral votes to Mr. Mondale's 13.
 In foreign policy, Mr. Reagan made good on his promise of swift retaliation against terrorists and the countries he accused of supporting them. On Aug. 19, 1981, American planes shot down two Libyan jets over the Gulf of Sidra in a dispute with the Libyan leader, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, who claimed that the gulf was Libyan territory. 
 Five years later, in April 1986, Mr. Reagan ordered the bombing of Tripoli to punish Colonel Qaddafi for his reported role in a terrorist attack on a discotheque in West Germany that killed an American soldier. In 1985 Mr. Reagan sent F-14 fighters to intercept an Egyptian plane carrying four Palestinian terrorists and forced it to land in Sicily. The hijackers, who had seized the Italian cruise ship Achille Lauro and killed an American passenger, were taken into custody by Italian officials.

The Iran-Contra Legacy
 The Reagan Doctrine was the name given to the administration's policy of supporting forces fighting Soviet-backed governments in Afghanistan, Nicaragua and Angola. 
 In October 1983, Mr. Reagan sent American forces to Grenada in a mission to rescue American students in medical school there and to evict a Grenadian government that he called ''a brutal group of leftist thugs.'' 
 In 1986, contrary to official policy, Mr. Reagan's subordinates sold arms to Iran as ransom for the hostages in Lebanon and diverted profits from the sales to the rebels, known as contras, fighting the Marxist Sandinistas then governing Nicaragua. 
 A joint Congressional investigating committee reported that the affair had been ''characterized by pervasive dishonesty and secrecy'' and that Mr. Reagan bore ultimate responsibility for the wrongdoing of a ''cabal of zealots.'' 
 The deception and disdain for the law invited struck at Mr. Reagan's credibility and severely weakened his powers of persuasion with Congress. Scrutiny of his appointees increased; Supreme Court nominees were rejected or withdrawn, and more of his aides were charged with ethics violations than in any previous administration.
 With the election of Mr. Bush in 1988, Mr. Reagan returned to California to write his autobiography, ride horses and chop wood on his ranch in Santa Barbara. The Reagans also had a new house in the Bel-Air section of Los Angeles. In a round of television interviews promoting his book, he was asked by Barbara Walters how he thought history would remember him. ''Well,'' Mr. Reagan replied, ''I hope it'll remember me on the basis that when I took office, I felt very strongly that our government had grown too officious and imposing too much on the private sector in our society, and that I wanted to see if the American people couldn't get back that pride, and that patriotism, that confidence, that they had in our system. And I think they have.''


CORRECTION-DATE: June 10, 2004

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an obituary of former President Ronald Reagan yesterday referred incorrectly in some copies to the Nicaraguans known as contras, to whom his subordinates secretly diverted profits from selling arms to Iran. They were rebels fighting the Nicaraguan government, not the Marxist Sandinistas who ran the government.

The obituary of Ronald Reagan in late editions on Sunday and a condensed version on Monday misstated the scope of his brief run for the Republican nomination in 1968. Although Mr. Reagan tested his popularity that year, he did not enter primaries. The obituaries also misstated the origin of the campaign slogan ''It's morning in America.'' It was used in television ads for his 1984 re-election bid, not for the 1980 campaign.
 The obituary on Sunday also misstated the affiliation of a scholar who commented on the way Americans evaluate a president's greatness. The scholar, Thomas Cronin, is president of Whitman College, in Washington State; he is no longer a professor at Colorado College.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A YOUNG PERFORMER -- Ronald Reagan as a high school student, and working as a lifeguard. At WHO in Des Moines, he did radio play-by-play for baseball games. (Photo by Left, United Press International
right, WHO Broadcasting)
STARRING ROLES -- Ann Sheridan appeared with him in ''King's Row'' in 1941
Barry Goldwater appeared with him at a Republican rally in Washington in 1967. (Photo by Left, Culver Pictures
right, The New York Times)
THE OATH -- Mr. Reagan being sworn in by Chief Justice Warren E. Burger in 1981. Nancy Reagan held the Bible as Senator Mark O. Hatfield and Jimmy Carter looked on. (Photo by United Press International)
LOW POINTS -- In 1981, a would-be assassin shot the president in Washington
In 1987, he appeared after the investigation into the Iran-contra affair. (Photographs by Associated Press)
 A NEW ERA -- Mikhail S. Gorbachev of the Soviet Union with President Reagan in 1987. (Photo by Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSTAGE TAKING (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); DEATHS (84%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); COLD WAR (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); POLITICS (76%); BASEBALL (74%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (73%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (67%); FOREIGN POLICY (62%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (60%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (60%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) Deaths (Obituaries); United States Politics and Government

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (94%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); JIMMY CARTER (73%) Ronald Wilson Reagan

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2004



162 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 679 words

HEADLINE: Forever the Optimist

BYLINE: By Bob Dole. 
Bob Dole, the Republican candidate for president in 1996, was a senator from 1969 to 1996.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
When he said goodbye to the country during his last public appearance at the 1992 convention, Ronald Reagan said he wanted to be remembered as someone who ''appealed to your greatest hopes, not your worst fears, to your confidence rather than your doubts.''
 A modest request for The Great Communicator, but Reagan believed that if he could accomplish that feat for free people anywhere, particularly in America, he had changed the world. That's how powerful he understood basic human liberties, respect for human life and democracy to be. The Reagan creed -- freedom with optimism -- was an unstoppable force. 
 As the Good-Will Ambassador everywhere, his optimism anchored his domestic and foreign policy. People who had their dignity, Reagan reasoned, would work to improve their lives and those of their families and countrymen. Systems that squelched the human spirit were evil.
 Reagan believed the compassionate thing to do was to give people their freedom, to place our trust in that freedom, and to put our trust in democracy -- in the people, in the goodness of our people -- and to believe in ourselves, in our country and what we stood for. While others scoffed at him, he was never ashamed to stand up for what America believed and for what mattered to ordinary people. Government was not equipped to tell us what to do, how to invest our money, or how best to provide for our families. He moved the country in his direction, creating Reagan Democrats -- people who believed what he did -- regardless of party, race, religion or wealth.
 While Americans live in the house that Abraham Lincoln built, the modern world is the home of Ronald Reagan. More than 700 million people who lived behind the Iron Curtain now have a taste of freedom, and their children and grandchildren will live with opportunities they could not have imagined. By building our defenses -- rather than unleashing aggression -- Ronald Reagan brought down the Soviet Union. In so doing, he exposed its bankruptcy -- financial, political, moral and spiritual. This is his great and lasting achievement. Today, economic opportunities are increasing, and while individual and political liberties lag in some corners, they are moving inexorably in the direction that Reagan envisioned and to which he devoted his presidency.
 Although his style is inimitable, our leaders today are disciples of Reagan's style and substance. They embrace the entrepreneurial spirit that Reagan saw at the pulse of change and progress. ''A communist was someone who reads Marx and Lenin,'' he joked. ''A noncommunist is someone who understands Marx and Lenin.'' He once asked: ''What were the four things wrong with Soviet agriculture? Spring, summer, winter and fall.''
 One of the first things he taught me was about loyalty: a few months after he took office, I was in the hospital recovering from kidney stone surgery. Much to my surprise, he took a helicopter to Walter Reed hospital to visit and to discuss my new role as chairman of the Senate Finance Committee. By the time he left, I was ready to march up any hill, let alone Capitol Hill, for him. He also once called my mother when she was very ill.
 Later he taught me about compromise: he would rather get 80 percent and go back for the rest later than go home with nothing. Eighty percent was a pretty good deal. He taught me that success is never final nor defeat fatal, as long as you have the courage to act on principle and take the heat. Reagan knew that sometimes you win by losing if you stand firm for what is right.
 Ronald Reagan is smiling upon us today because we are working on what he could not complete. His message of individual liberty, global democracy, economic opportunity and national pride thrives. We celebrate his life and the liberty he left as its legacy. There is not and never will be a bad time to remind ourselves of that legacy and to live up to it. Not only did he use grace, charm, wit and indomitable optimism, he used his strength of character to convey the greatness of America. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FAMILY (89%); POLITICS (78%); RELIGION (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (74%); GRANDCHILDREN (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (68%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (61%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (61%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%) Freedom and Human Rights; United States Politics and Government; United States International Relations

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (94%) Ronald Wilson Reagan; Bob Dole; Ronald Wilson Reagan

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (67%) Russia

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2004



163 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: THE TROOPS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1031 words

HEADLINE: 60 Years Later, a Division Takes Stock on Different Sands

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG

DATELINE: TIKRIT, Iraq, June 6 

 BODY:
Skimming over rows of mud huts and palm groves, Maj. Gen. John R. S. Batiste flew in a Black Hawk across his command area on Sunday to speak to his soldiers about history and sacrifice and duty.
 He stopped at three bases in northern Iraq in 120-degree heat and swirling clouds of dust. Each time, he presided over a ceremony in which soldiers of his unit, the First Infantry Division, received patches for serving in a combat zone. Each time, he gave the same speech about how the division had spearheaded the invasion of Omaha Beach in France exactly 60 years ago. 
 ''The ties that bind June 1944 to today are fundamental to who we are and what we represent,'' he said. ''Just as those brave soldiers 60 years ago at Normandy sacrificed to free the people of Europe, you are now sacrificing to give the people of Iraq the opportunity to be free.''
 But that night, sitting in a marble reception hall in a palace in Tikrit once used by Saddam Hussein, General Batiste said the war in Iraq was more nation-building than nation-razing.
 ''It's very hard to compare Iraq with back then,'' the general said in an interview after a dinner of baked chicken and green peas. ''They were in continuous contact with the enemy. Here, we have contact with the enemy all the time, but it's a different kind of contact. You've got this whole spectrum of operations you've got to deal with simultaneously, from combat to stability operations. The commanders are in effect military governors.''
 The First Infantry Division took 2,400 casualties on D-Day and fought across France to drive out the Nazis. The war it is fighting now has less moral clarity and more loose ends. 
 The division controls a fertile swath of northern Iraq slightly larger than West Virginia. It oversees 3.5 million Iraqis. It is expected to crush a shadowy insurgency and support local governments friendly to the United States.
 Those are not easy tasks given that the division is based in the heart of the restive ''Sunni triangle.'' Many Iraqis in this area once served in the Iraqi Army under Mr. Hussein's rule. But L. Paul Bremer III, the American civilian authority in Iraq, disbanded the army a year ago, and the insurgency here continues to be fueled by an unemployment rate as high as 60 percent, the general said.
 There have been some successes. The American military no longer considers Tikrit, Mr. Hussein's hometown, much of a trouble spot. Commanders say attacks dropped off after the Americans used overwhelming force to root out insurgents and began pouring reconstruction money into the city.
 But there are also troubled places, like the oil-rich city of Kirkuk, where tensions among Arabs, Kurds and Turkmen have created an ethnic powder keg. Since mid-March, Kirkuk has been the site of at least seven assassination attempts, most against Kurdish leaders, General Batiste said. In all, the division has counted at least 23 assassination attempts on faction leaders in its jurisdiction, and 10 have succeeded.
 While attacks here on American forces have declined from a high of 41 per day in April, when an uprising swept Iraq, assaults on Iraqis working with the Americans have risen. Attacks on Iraqi security forces account for 17 percent of the total in the region, up from 12 percent before mid-March, according to the division.
 Of the 21,000 soldiers under General Batiste's command, 39 have died in combat and 314 have been wounded. The general estimated that as of Friday, his soldiers had killed at least 200 insurgents, wounded at least 100 and detained 949.
 But General Batiste and other commanders say they are trying to shift focus from combat operations to building an Iraqi infrastructure as the country moves toward limited sovereignty on June 30. 
 The priority is assembling an Iraqi security force, they say, that will not buckle when confronted by heavily armed insurgents.
 Nine thousand members of the Iraqi Civil Defense Corps, a national militia, work in the division's area, and that seems to be enough, General Batiste said. But some provinces are lacking in police officers. The province of Diyala, the easternmost zone under General Batiste's command, needs to double the number of officers, he said.
 American soldiers are also trying to strengthen the police, who are expected to patrol the border with Iran. At his first helicopter stop on Sunday, General Batiste flew to Forward Operating Base Caldwell, 15 miles from the border in the middle of a bleak, flat, windy desert.
 ''We spend a lot of time patrolling the border,'' said Brig. Gen. Dan H. Hickman, commander of the 30th Brigade Combat Team, composed of several National Guard units. General Hickman said about 1,300 Iraqi border police work the area, many trained by his brigade's soldiers, some of whom are police officers in the United States.
 After that stop, General Batiste flew south to the town of Baquba to meet with the Third Brigade Combat Team. The general said that of all the cities under his watch, Baquba, 35 miles northeast of Baghdad, was the most willing to work with the Americans. Col. Dana J. H. Pittard, the brigade commander, said he expanded the provincial council last week to 40 members from 29 to make it more inclusive.
 But Baquba still has a strong Sunni guerrilla movement, and insurgents have killed some local leaders, including a communist member of the provincial council and a district police chief. Insurgents have tried twice to kill the governor, Colonel Pittard said.
 General Batiste's final stop, a base on the outskirts of Tikrit, was a few miles from the former palace of Mr. Hussein where the general now lives. The base, occupied by the Second Brigade Combat Team, was responsible for controlling Salahuddin Province, considered a stronghold of the Sunni insurgency.
 The brigade has lost 13 men. After General Batiste finished the combat patch ceremony, Col. Randal A. Dragon, the brigade commander, unveiled 13 plaques dedicated to his fallen men.
 As Americans now visit Normandy to see where their ancestors were killed, he said, descendants of those who died in this war may one day come to Iraq.
 ''They'll be left to wonder, why here?'' Colonel Dragon said. ''And why this way?''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Maj. Gen. John R. S. Batiste, who leads the First Infantry Division, surveyed operating bases in his command area in northeastern Iraq yesterday. (Photo by Ashley Gilbertson for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (89%); WORLD WAR II (89%); ARMIES (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); IRAQ WAR (72%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (68%); INTERVIEWS (65%); TERRORISM (62%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (50%) World War II (1939-45); United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Awards, Decorations and Honors; Terrorism

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (77%) Edward Wong; John R S (Maj Gen) Batiste

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); FRANCE (90%); EUROPE (79%) Iraq; Omaha Beach (Normandy); Normandy (France); France

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2004



164 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1383 words

HEADLINE: The Split Between Disney and Miramax Gets a Little Wider

BYLINE: By SHARON WAXMAN and LAURA M. HOLSON

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, June 6 

 BODY:
For the first time since buying the art-house studio Miramax in 1993, Michael D. Eisner, the chief executive of the Walt Disney Company, is willing to consider selling the division back to it founders and co-chairmen, Harvey and Bob Weinstein, according to close associates. 
 Although the working relationship between Mr. Eisner and the independent-minded Weinstein brothers has never been particularly smooth, that Mr. Eisner is entertaining such an option represents a shift in his and the company's thinking. Mr. Eisner, according to friends and executives who have discussed the issue with him, has reached this point because of accumulated aggravation with the Weinstein brothers, most recently a dispute over whether Miramax could distribute ''Fahrenheit 9/11,'' the Michael Moore documentary strongly critical of President Bush.
 Miramax's future came up at a recent two-day retreat of Disney directors where, as part of a review of the various divisions, the board discussed several alternatives, which included selling or keeping the unit, said two people who attended the meeting. 
 And on a recent trip to New York, Mr. Eisner discussed the idea over dinner with friends, saying he might be willing to sell Miramax but did not think the Weinsteins could raise the money, said a person who attended the dinner. A senior Disney executive said: ''The business is not for sale. We own 100 percent of it. At the same time, we do have a fiduciary duty to act in the best interest of shareholders and to consider bona fide, credible proposals.'' 
 The latest twist in the strained relationship between Mr. Eisner and the Weinstein brothers comes amid a backdrop of contract negotiations and disputes over compensation and profits. The Weinsteins have increasingly chafed against working within Disney's corporate structure and in the last year have been trying to raise financing in an attempt to find ways to work outside it. 
 But Disney does not have to make a decision any time soon about what to do with Miramax and the Weinsteins, analysts said. The Weinsteins's contracts do not expire until next year. And this latest contretemps could pass and a new deal worked out. Another alternative, according to analysts, could be for Disney to sell Miramax to the Weinsteins without its film library, which includes ''Shakespeare in Love'' and ''Chicago.''
 ''The question is whether they want to continue the relationship with the Weinsteins and what price that is worth,'' Tom Wolzein, an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein, said. Disney maintains that Miramax has not been as profitable as in the past. In a recent earnings call, Mr. Eisner said Miramax had been profitable in two of the last five years. A senior Disney executive, without disclosing specific figures, said Miramax showed a profit in 2003, but would lose money in 2004. Miramax disagrees, saying it had a $211 million profit in 2003. 
 A Miramax spokesman, Matthew Hiltzik, said: ''Bob and Harvey only receive their bonuses if the company is profitable. They have received those bonuses every single year.'' 
 ''If the company thinks Miramax is so unprofitable,'' Mr. Hiltzik said, ''Bob and Harvey would be happy to buy it back if Disney names the price.''
 What is not in dispute is that Miramax has brought Disney prestige and numerous Academy Awards. Because of that track record and a library of films growing in value in the DVD age, Miramax is worth much more than the $80 million Disney paid the Weinsteins for it just over a decade ago. Analysts have speculated that Miramax could be worth more than $2 billion.
 It is unclear whether the Weinsteins could raise that money. But last year, they provisionally raised a $450 million fund with Goldman Sachs to bolster the $700 million they get from Disney to produce films; Disney rejected Miramax's attempt to bring in independent financing. 
 Asked whether he thought the Weinsteins could raise as much as $2 billion, James L. Dolan, the chief executive of Cablevision Systems Corporation, a friend of the Weinsteins, said, ''I do.''
 ''There are many people interested in investing with them,'' Mr. Dolan said. ''I would definitely be interested.'' 
 Despite the differences over how much Miramax makes, it is the worsening personal relations between Mr. Eisner and the Weinsteins, rather than business considerations, that could lead to a possible sale. 
 Since 1993, the Weinsteins have maintained a large measure of independence within Disney, with the ability to make movies up to a certain budget. But after the first couple of years, the freewheeling, New York-based Weinsteins began to clash with the more staid culture of the Burbank-based Disney. Harvey Weinstein has been annoyed that Mr. Eisner blocked him from various investments that later paid off. 
 For his part, Mr. Eisner finds it frustrating to deal with the headstrong Harvey Weinstein, who Disney executives say often acts as if he does not have a boss, according to Disney executives. Mr. Weinstein now rarely talks to Mr. Eisner or to Richard Cook, chairman of the Walt Disney Studios, dealing instead with the chief strategic officer for Disney, Peter E. Murphy. 
 Mr. Murphy negotiated the deal permitting the Weinsteins to privately buy ''Fahrenheit 9/11'' and find an independent distributor. (Mr. Dolan of Cablevision, whose IFC Films last week put up a quarter of the distribution cost of Mr. Moore's ''Fahrenheit 9/11,'' said, despite the Weinsteins' reputations, he has had no trouble working with them.)
 For the last year, the Weinsteins have been negotiating a compensation dispute with Disney as part of contract renewal talks, with the Weinsteins saying they deserve more than they are earning and demanding an audit of Disney's books, according to executives. After Mr. Eisner came under attack by former directors and investors last year, the two executives made attempts to patch things up, at least publicly. 
 The uproar over ''Fahrenheit 9/11'' reignited the long-simmering issues. Although Disney told Miramax executives more than a year ago it could not distribute the film, Miramax executives thought they would eventually be able to change the company's mind. When the dispute became public and Disney was portrayed as censoring the film, Mr. Eisner was said to be upset.
 At Disney's annual review of its operating divisions in late April, the board talked about Disney's relationship with the Weinsteins. Mr. Eisner told board members that he wanted to resolve longstanding frustrations in dealing with the Weinsteins, and discussed selling Miramax in that context. 
 However theoretical at the moment, Mr. Eisner and the board's discussion over selling Miramax represents a significant change in attitude. Two years ago the executive told colleagues and peers that he would never sell Miramax, an investment that had risen in value far beyond his expectations. On a call last week with investors Mr. Eisner appeared to rule out a sale when asked whether Miramax would be part of Disney in five years. ''That's like asking whether Disneyland will be part of Disney in five years,'' he said. 
 But when asked who would be running Miramax in five years, he said, ''I'm not sure.''
 Much of Miramax's value is in its library of more than 500 titles, from ''The English Patient'' to the ''Scream'' series in the Dimension division. Studios have found new cash flows in their libraries with the explosion of the DVD market. 
 Analysts and Hollywood experts also say that a large part of Miramax's value comes from the Weinstein's ability to identify new cinematic talent (like the directors Quentin Tarantino and Robert Rodriguez and the actors Gwyneth Paltrow and Ben Affleck) and to promote their movies to huge news media attention and glory at the Academy Awards. 
 On their own, the Weinsteins will lose some of the benefits that come with being part of a conglomerate, and will have to spend their own money to promote their movies. ''The problem for anyone buying one of these things is you have to have the economics better than they are getting from Disney and that is hard to do,'' said Chris Dixon, a managing director at Gabelli Capital Partners. 
 He said the bellwether for any valuation of Miramax could be at what price Dreamworks SKG is able to take its animation division public. 


GRAPHIC: Photos: Michael Eisner and Harvey Weinstein at a conference in New York in 2000. Their working relationship has become more difficult in recent years. (Photo by Nancy Kaszerman/Zuma Press)
JEWELS IN THE LIBRARY -- Some of Miramax's hit films that make its library worth an estimated $3 billion. (Photos by The New York Times)(pg. C1)
Alfred Molina and Salma Hayek in the 2002 Miramax Film ''Frida,'' which was released on DVD last year. (Photo by Peter Sorel/Miramax Films)
The Miramax movies ''Life Is Beautiful'' with Roberto Benigni, above, and ''The Cider House Rules'' are part of the studio's extensive library. Disney paid $80 million to buy Miramax over a decade ago. (Photo by Sergio Strizzi/Miramax Films)
 (Photo by Miramax Films)(pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (86%); COMPANY PROFITS (83%); MOVIE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (68%); SHAREHOLDERS (64%); LIBRARIES (60%) Motion Pictures; Motion Pictures; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Motion Pictures

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (96%); WEINSTEIN CO LLC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Disney, Walt, Co; Miramax Films

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (96%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (96%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (96%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (96%); NAICS512120 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (92%)

PERSON: BOB WEINSTEIN (90%); HARVEY WEINSTEIN (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (53%) Michael D Eisner; Harvey Weinstein; Bob Weinstein; Michael Moore; Sharon Waxman; Laura M Holson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2004



165 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; THE 40TH PRESIDENT: THE LEGACY; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1554 words

HEADLINE: An Impact Seen, and Felt, Everywhere

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 6 

 BODY:
His name adorns National Airport, a California freeway, a stamp in Grenada, a ballistic missile test site in the Marshall Islands, a suite at the St. Regis Hotel in Los Angeles and a massive office building here dedicated to international trade. But if you seek Ronald Reagan's real monument, just look around.
 Mr. Reagan's legacy lives in the career of another underrated actor turned governor of California, one born in Middle Europe and not the Middle West, who is now ruling Sacramento with a blend of charm and flint. It endures in a Supreme Court and federal judiciary still led by Mr. Reagan's conservative appointees.
 It flourishes in a federal government that never got as small as Mr. Reagan might have wished, but in which the prevailing economic debate is now almost always over how much to cut taxes, not whether. It pulses in a transformed political landscape: in an energized, grass-roots Republican Party; in the first Republican Congress in a half-century; and in a Democratic Party still at pains to deflect and defuse Republican dominance. 
 Perhaps most of all, Mr. Reagan's legacy prevails in the muscular foreign policy of the current occupant of the White House, who seems far more the spiritual heir to the Reagan revolution than to his own father's presidential policies, and who reacted on Sunday to a question about virulent anti-Americanism in Europe by invoking the man a French headline once dismissed as a ''cowboy justicier.''
 ''I believe in a future that is peaceful, based upon liberty,'' Mr. Bush told the NBC anchor Tom Brokaw in an interview broadcast from France, where he was marking the 60th anniversary of D-Day near the site of one of Mr. Reagan's most famous speeches. ''And I remember my predecessor, whose life we mourn, Ronald Reagan: they felt the same way about him. Tom, that doesn't mean a fellow like me should change my beliefs. I'm not going to. I'm not trying to be popular. What I'm trying to do is what I think is right.''
 It was Mr. Reagan's great fortune for most of his life and presidency to be popular, and the outpouring of tributes in the 10 years since Alzheimer's disease left him adrift in a world of his own suggested that his popularity only grew with time. But Mr. Reagan lived long enough to enable many of his old lieutenants, and some more dispassionate chroniclers as well, to argue that he had also been right on some of the bigger questions of his time.
 ''Ronald Reagan had a higher claim than any other leader to have won the cold war for liberty,'' said his old comrade Lady Thatcher, the former British prime minister. ''And he did it without a shot being fired.''
 Mr. Reagan's command of details was far from complete. He once set aside briefing books on the eve of an economic summit meeting to watch ''The Sound of Music'' on television. Mario M. Cuomo, then governor of New York, loved to recount how Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan tried to present him to Mr. Reagan, who interrupted, ''You don't have to introduce me to Lee Iacocca!'' 
 After it was revealed that officials in his administration had sold arms to Iran as a ransom for American hostages, then used the proceeds to help the Nicaraguan contras, Mr. Reagan only reluctantly acknowledged that it had happened, and a commission he had appointed himself concluded that his detached management style had failed him.
 But most of the time, his command of direction was crystal clear.
 Stuart Spencer, a political consultant who was with Mr. Reagan from the very beginning of his campaign for governor of California in 1965, recalled in a telephone interview how decisive his old boss could be. 
 ''It was a pretty bold act to fire 11,000 air controllers,'' Mr. Spencer said. ''At the time he said Russia was an evil empire, I know a lot of us were really nervous about it. He cut income taxes across the board 25 percent, named a woman to the Supreme Court. Those were all pretty bold decisions. Not today, maybe, but then. And he made them.''
 Cass R. Sunstein, a professor at the University of Chicago Law School, said Mr. Reagan's was ''the most important presidency of the 20th century, with one obvious exception'': Franklin D. Roosevelt. Last year, Professor Sunstein wrote in The American Prospect that Mr. Reagan's appointments had left the federal courts fundamentally different from their predecessors just two decades ago.
 ''What was then in the center is now on the left; what was then in the far right is now in the center; what was then on the left no longer exists,'' he wrote. And in a telephone interview on Sunday, he added that Mr. Reagan's influence on federal regulation was just as pervasive, because of an executive order that required all federal agencies to do a cost-benefit analysis of major proposed rules, and to make that the basis of the rule-making, to the extent allowed by law.
 ''That has redefined the practices of the executive branch,'' Professor Sunstein said. ''Clinton didn't fundamentally change it.''
 Indeed, Bill Clinton, a founder of the centrist Democratic Leadership Council -- created to reign in his party's most liberal instincts -- was among the first to recognize Mr. Reagan's sweeping political legacy. Later, as president, Mr. Clinton successfully pressed for an overhaul of the federal welfare system and famously, if prematurely, declared, ''The era of big government is over.''
 ''Ever since Ronald Reagan, Washington has been playing on his side of the field,'' said Kenneth Duberstein, Mr. Reagan's last White House chief of staff. ''Everything that has taken place since the 80's virtually has been on Ronald Reagan's territory.''
 It was Mr. Reagan, a New Deal Democrat turned Goldwater conservative, who lured disaffected blue-collar Democrats to vote Republican in the first place, and his upbeat personality was a crucial factor. He once cut off debate among his advisers over how much credit to give the Rev. Jesse Jackson for negotiating Syria's release of a downed American Air Force pilot by saying, ''The only way we can lose is if we're not gracious.''
 Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky, recalled how Mr. Reagan had introduced him at a rally in his long-shot campaign for the Senate 20 years ago as ''my good friend Mitch O'Donnell,'' then continued unfazed when he realized the error, showing ''how completely Teflon he was.''
 Mr. McConnell, now the Senate's No. 2 Republican, added: ''He had an enormous impact on a lot of us, and our developing philosophies. I became a more solid conservative, and a more conviction-oriented politician, as the result of his example. He demonstrated that you don't have to flip-flop back and forth, and that you can take an unpopular position.'' 
 Newt Gingrich, whose Republican takeover of the House of Representatives in 1994 was made possible by Mr. Reagan's years of toil, told Fox News that Mr. Reagan had taught him ''cheerful persistence.'' Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, who served Mr. Reagan as national security adviser, told CBS News that Mr. Reagan had taught him ''how to be calm in the middle of a crisis; how to set a clear vision; how to use the skills you have as a communicator to push that vision forward.''
 If Richard M. Nixon's demons reflected a darker side of late-20th-century American conservatism, Mr. Reagan's relentless optimism projected the sun. Some of the words he used to inspire the nation and the world were the work of his speechwriters, but he shaped them meticulously, and he saw with a poet's eye.
 On his 11th wedding anniversary, in 1963, he wrote his wife, Nancy: ''This is really just an 'in between' day. It is a day on which I love you three hundred and sixty-five days more than I did a year ago and three hundred and sixty-five less than I will a year from now. But I wonder how I lived at all for all the three hundred and sixty-fives before I met you.''
 Mr. Reagan was the first president to have been divorced, and ease with his own children from two marriages often eluded him. But as the national paterfamilias, he transformed his gifts of intimate expression for use on the world's biggest stage.
 ''People connected to him,'' Mr. Spencer, the political consultant, said. ''Because of his idealism, his vision. He wasn't a shouter. When he went on television, he came into your living room like a neighbor sitting on the couch. He wasn't harassing and haranguing you.''
 If Mr. Reagan was guided by fixed principles, he was far from inflexible. He adapted his policies to political realities, pressing for arms reductions with the Soviet Union after years of military buildup. He told his former chief of staff and Treasury secretary, James A. Baker, that he ''would much rather get 80 percent of what I want than to go over the cliff with my flag flying,'' as Mr. Baker put it on CNN on Sunday.
 Historians will long debate the impact of the huge federal budget deficits run up under Mr. Reagan's leadership, the efficacy of his tax cuts, the effects of his administration's involvements in Central America, his seeming indifference to civil rights, the environment and the plight of the poor. But few now seem likely to quarrel with his own assessment, given in his farewell address from the Oval Office on Jan. 11, 1989.
 ''My friends, we did it,'' he said then. ''We weren't just marking time. We made a difference.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: After the nation's air traffic controllers went on strike in 1981, President Ronald Reagan fired them, an act one former aide called ''pretty bold.'' (Photo by Associated Press)Chart: ''Assessing Reaganomics''Ronald Reagan cut taxes and increased military spending as the economy entered one of the longest expansions in history after a recession in 1981-82. But the federal budget deficit also more than doubled during his term.Graphs track the following aspects of the American economy from the late 1960's through 2003 highlighting the years of Reagan's presidency:Inflation rateUnemployment rateReal median household income (Inflation adjusted, in 2002 dollars)Top marginal tax rate (For taxpayers in the top income bracket)Defense spending (Inflation adjusted, in 2004 dollars)Budget deficit or surplus (As a percentage of G.D.P.)(Sources by Bureau of Labor Statistics
Census Internal Revenue Service
 Defense Congressional Budget Office)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); COLD WAR (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); CONSERVATISM (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); POLITICS (74%); AIRPORTS (73%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (73%); TAX LAW (70%); SUPREME COURTS (70%); ANNIVERSARIES (68%); FOREIGN POLICY (66%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (60%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (50%) United States Politics and Government; Presidents and Presidency (US)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (59%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (94%) Todd S Purdum; Ronald Wilson Reagan

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); MARSHALL ISLANDS (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); FRANCE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2004



166 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2004

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 2949 words

HEADLINE: The Late "Great Communicator"

BYLINE: ANNISSA HAMBOUZ and YASMIN CHIN EISENHAUER


HIGHLIGHT: In this lesson, students research the career of former president, Ronald Reagan, to create a visual timeline of key events and their impact on the American and global political landscapes. 

 BODY:
 Note: This lesson was originally published on an older version of The Learning Network; the link to the related Times article will take you to a page on the old site. 
 Overview of Lesson Plan: In this lesson, students research the career of former president, Ronald Reagan, to create a visual timeline of key events and their impact on the American and global political landscapes.
 Author(s): 
Annissa Hambouz, The New York Times Learning Network
Yasmin Chin Eisenhauer, The Bank Street College of Education in New York City
 Suggested Time Allowance: 1 hour 
 Objectives: 
Students will: 
 1. Consider their prior knowledge of former president Reagan and his political career. 
 2. Examine national and international responses to the news of Ronald Reagan's death by reading and discussing "Reagan is Remembered for His Leadership and Optimism." 
 3. Investigate Ronald Reagan's political life and career, and consider his legacy in domestic and global politics. 
 4. Create a visual timeline of Reagan's political career. 
 Resources / Materials: 
--pens/pencils 
 --paper 
 --student journals 
 --copies of "Reagan is Remembered for His Leadership and Optimism" (one per student)
 --resources with information on Ronald Reagan's life, politics, and political career, such as history and civics texts, reference books, and computers with Internet access 
 --poster board, glue sticks, markers to create sections of illustrated timeline for classroom display
 Activities / Procedures: 
1. WARM-UP/DO-NOW: Students respond to the following prompt, written on the board prior to class: "What do you know about former President Ronald Reagan? List two to three details you have heard about his life, his politics, or his presidency." Allow students a few minutes to write, and then ask them to share their responses with the class.
 2. As a class, read and discuss "Reagan is Remembered for His Leadership and Optimism," using the following questions: 
 a. Why had Ronald Reagan stopped recognizing those around him for some time before his death, according to the article? 
 b. Where did Reagan live before his death? 
 c. How did President Bush respond to the news of Reagan's death? 
 d. What role did President Bush's father, former president George H.W. Bush, serve in the Reagan administration? 
 e. Aside from former president Bush, which other former United States presidents are quoted in this article? 
 f. Which former British prime minister is quoted in this article? How does she describe her relationship with former president Reagan? 
 g. Who is John Kerry, and which historical event does he offer as an example of Reagan's optimism? 
 h. Who is the current governor of California, and in what way might his life be compared to Ronald Reagan's?
 3. Explain to students that, using all available classroom resources, they will be researching Ronald Reagan's political career and creating a timeline of key events and their impact or legacy on today's American and global politics. Next, divide class into five groups, and assign each one of the following periods with corresponding key events:
 GROUP 1 (Years 1911-1958)
 Group 1 will be responsible for researching information on Reagan's early years, including: 
 --Political party affiliation 
 --Presidency of Screen Actors' Guild (SAG) 
 --Role in House Un-American Activities Committee hearings 
 Question to consider: How did the HUAC hearings reflect the American political climate of the 1950s and what impact did they have on modern U.S. history?
 GROUP 2 (Years 1959-1977)
 Group 2 will be responsible for researching information on Reagan's first public office as governor of California and his initial bids at presidency. Key events in these years include:
 --Switching political party affiliation from Democrat to Republican 
 --Terms as California governor 
 --Unsuccessful candidacies for Republican presidential nomination 
 --Growing reputation as public speaker or "Great Communicator" (August 19, 1976 speech at the Kansas City convention)
 Questions to consider: What were Reagan's positions on Vietnam War protests, abortion, and welfare during his terms as California governor? How might both his supporters and critics have viewed his actions regarding these issues? How might they have affected his image as a public leader?
 GROUP 3 (Years 1978-1982)
 Group 3 will be responsible for researching information on the first half of Reagan's first term as President of the United States, including information on: 
 --Presidential election against incumbent Jimmy Carter 
 --Reagan's "plan for economic recovery" 
 --Assassination attempt on the president's life by John Hinckley Jr. 
 --Reagan's appointment of first female Supreme Court Justice, Sandra Day O'Connor --Worst economic recession since Great Depression 
 --Growing nuclear threat between U.S. and Soviet Union 
 Question to consider: How did Reagan balance the growing domestic economic crisis with Cold War defense during his first term of office, and what were the results?
 GROUP 4 (Years 1983-1985)
 Group 4 will be responsible for researching information on the second half of Reagan's first term and the start of his second term, with a focus on: 
 --The record $189 billion deficit 
 --Reagan's description of the Soviet Union as "focus of evil in the modern world" 
 --The SDI (Strategic Defense Initiative) proposal, also known as "Star Wars" 
 --The invasion of Granada 
 --Support of Contras in Nicaragua, and an explanation of the "Iran-Contra" connection --Presidential election against Walter Mondale 
 Questions to consider: "How did Reagan's use of the term 'evil' reflect his Cold War ideology? In what context(s) has the term been used in the post-Cold War era?"
 GROUP 5 (Years 1986-1988)
 Group 5 will be responsible for researching information on the second half of Reagan's last term of office, examining: 
 --Reagan's signing of "Martin Luther King, Jr. Day" legislation 
 --Explosion of U.S. space shuttle Challenger 
 --The U.S. economic boom 
 --Reagan's changing public approval ratings, from 68% to 46% to 51% during this time period 
 --Iran-Contra investigation and Tower Commission hearings 
 --Presidential election between Vice President George H.W. Bush and Massachusetts Governor Michael Dukakis 
 Question to consider: Based on what you know and have researched, why do you think President Reagan was able to achieve such high public approval ratings during his presidency? What public image precedents might he have set for American presidents to follow? 
 Some suggested Internet sources include: PBS's "The American Experience: Timeline of Ronald Reagan's Life" at (http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/amex/reagan/timeline/index.html), which offers a detailed chronology of key events in the former president's life, both personal and professional. The New York Times obituary (http://www.nytimes.com/ref/politics/REAGAN_OBIT.html) is part of a larger archive of articles on Reagan dating back to 1980. Yahoo's full coverage page on Reagan offers the latest headlines and a collection of important links (http://story.news.yahoo.com/fc?cid=34&tmpl=fc&in=US&cat=Ronald_Reagan).
 4. WRAP-UP/ HOMEWORK: After students have completed research, group members divide tasks to compile and type up information and combine images for homework, to complete their group's section of the visual timeline. Groups reconvene in next class period to present their findings and post their sections of the timeline on the classroom wall. As a follow-up discussion, groups share their "questions to consider," and hypothesize on the ways in which the Reagan legacy has impacted domestic and global politics, and even the state of affairs today.
 Further Questions for Discussion: 
--How big a role do you think a leader's charisma plays in his or her success? Why? 
 --What are some of the adjectives used by the people quoted in the article, "Reagan is Remembered for His Leadership and Optimism," to describe the former president? 
 --Based on your research, what do you think some of the most memorable policies or events from the Reagan era are? 
 --How do you think Reagan's presidency might be portrayed in history texts one hundred years from now? 
 Evaluation / Assessment: 
Students will be evaluated based on responses to Warm-Up exercise, participation in class discussion, group research, and completion of visual timeline component.
 Vocabulary: 
ravaged, bereaved, escorted, tributes, cascaded, commemorate, D-Day, condolences, conviction, presumptive, nominee, optimism, infectious, astronauts, spanned, rotunda, constellation, rites, temperament, opponents, personified, indomitable, adorns, profoundly 
 Extension Activities: 
1. Why was Reagan known as "The Great Communicator?" Listen to some of Reagan's speeches and analyze them for content, ideological perspective, and persuasiveness. You may wish to visit National Public Radio's "Ronald Reagan: In His Own Words" Web site for audio links (http://www.npr.org/news/specials/obits/reagan/audio_archive.html).
 2. Do you think the comparison between current California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger and Ronald Reagan is an apt one? Make a chart comparing both men's paths to political power.
 3. Write an obituary for a historical figure you admire. Be sure to include some of characteristics or personal strengths for which this person was famous. 
 Interdisciplinary Connections: 
Global History- The article mentions former British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher. Trace Britain's leadership from Thatcher, to Major, to Blair. How has each prime minister impacted Great Britain, and what comparisons might be made to U.S. presidents Reagan, Bush, Clinton and Bush?
 Economics- What did Reagan's economic policies, known as "Reaganomics" entail? Make an explanatory chart, then present evidence to both support and refute these economic theories.
 Health- What is Alzheimer's Disease? When was it discovered? How does it affect the human body and memory? Make a visual presentation using a poster or PowerPoint slides.
 Media Studies- Reagan was known for his roles in "B movies." What exactly is the film genre known as "B," how is it classified, when did it become popular, and which writers, directors, and actors are associated with it? Create a guide to B movies to share with your film or media studies class. 
 Other Information on the Web: 
PBS's "The American Experience: Timeline of Ronald Reagan's Life" at (http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/amex/reagan/timeline/index.html), which offers a detailed chronology of key events in the former president's life, both personal and professional.
 The New York Times obituary (http://www.nytimes.com/ref/politics/REAGAN_OBIT.html) is part of a larger archive of articles on Reagan dating back to 1980.
 Yahoo's full coverage page on Reagan offers the latest headlines and a collection of important links (http://story.news.yahoo.com/fc?cid=34&tmpl=fc&in=US&cat=Ronald_Reagan) 
 Academic Content Standards: 
Grades 6-8

United States History Standard 27- Understands how the Cold War and conflicts in Korea and Vietnam influenced domestic and international politics. Benchmark: 
Understands factors that contributed to the development of the Cold War 
(CTSS - 'social', '6-8', 'us10') 
United States History Standard 30- Understands developments in foreign policy and domestic politics between the Nixon and Clinton presidencies. Benchmarks: Understands the domestic problems facing Presidents Bush and Reagan and the programs their administrations presented to deal with these issues; Understands major foreign policy events and how they influenced public opinion of the administrations from Nixon to Clinton 
(CTSS - 'social', '6-8', 'us11') 
Historic Understanding Standard 1- Understands and knows how to analyze chronological relationships and patterns. Benchmarks: Knows how to construct and interpret multiple tier time lines; Understands patterns of change and continuity in the historical succession of related events 
(CTSS - 'social', '6-8', 'hu1') 
Historical Understanding Standard 2- Understands the historical perspective. Benchmarks: Understands that specific individuals and the values those individuals held had an impact on history; Analyzes the influence specific ideas and beliefs had on a period of history; Analyzes the effects specific decisions had on history 
(CTSS - 'social', '6-8', 'hu2') 
 Civics Standard 9- Understands the importance of Americans sharing and supporting certain values, beliefs, and principles of American constitutional democracy. Benchmarks: Understands how certain values are fundamental to American public life; Knows that constitutional government is a fundamental principle of American democracy
 (CTSS - 'social', '6-8', 'civ2') 
 Civics Standard 27- Understands how certain character traits enhance citizens' ability to fulfill personal and civic responsibilities. Benchmarks: Understands the importance for individuals and society of commonly held civic responsibilities such as paying taxes, being informed and attentive to public issues, monitoring political leaders and governmental agencies and taking appropriate action if their adherence to constitutional principles is lacking, deciding whether and how to vote, participating in civic groups, performing public service, serving as a juror, and serving in the armed forces; Understands the meaning of civic responsibilities as distinguished from personal responsibilities, and understands contemporary issues that involve civic responsibilities
 (CTSS - 'social', '6-8', 'civ5') 
 Language Arts Standard 4- Gathers and uses information for research purposes. Benchmarks: Uses a variety of resource materials to gather information for research topics; Determines the appropriateness of an information source for a research topic
 (CTSS - 'english', '6-8', '4') 
 Language Arts Standard 7- Demonstrates competence in the general skills and strategies for reading a variety of informational texts. Benchmarks: Identifies techniques used to convey viewpoint; Draws conclusions and makes inferences based on explicit and implicit information in texts; Differentiates between fact and opinion in informational texts
 (CTSS - 'english', '6-8', '7') 
 Language Arts Standard 8- Demonstrates competence in speaking and listening as tools for learning. Benchmarks: Plays a variety of roles in group discussions; Asks questions to seek elaboration and clarification of ideas; Listens in order to understand a speaker's topic, purpose, and perspective; Conveys a clear main point when speaking to others and stays on the topic being discussed
 (CTSS - 'english', '6-8', '8')
 Grades 9-12 

United States History Standard 27- Understands how the Cold War and conflicts in Korea and Vietnam influenced domestic and international politics. Benchmark: Understands factors that contributed to the development of the Cold War 
(CTSS - 'social', '9-12', 'us10') 
United States History Standard 30- Understands developments in foreign policy and domestic politics between the Nixon and Clinton presidencies. Benchmarks: Understands the impact of the Reagan presidency on relations with other countries; Understands the influence of U.S. foreign policy on international events from Nixon to Clinton 
(CTSS - 'social', '9-12', 'us11') 
Historic Understanding Standard 1- Understands and knows how to analyze chronological relationships and patterns. Benchmarks: Understands historical continuity and change related to a particular development or theme; Understands the organizing principles of alternative models of historical periodization 
(CTSS - 'social', '9-12', 'hu1') 
Historical Understanding Standard 2- Understands the historical perspective. Benchmarks: Analyzes the values hel by specific people who influenced history and the role their values played in influencing history; Analyzes the influences specific ideas and beliefs had on a period of history and specifies how events might have been different in the absence of those ideas and beliefs; Understands that the consequences of human intentions are influenced by the means of carrying them out 
(CTSS - 'social', '9-12', 'hu2') 
Civics Standard 27- Understands how certain character traits enhance citizens' ability to fulfill personal and civic responsibilities. Benchmarks: Understands the importance for individuals and society of fulfilling civic responsibilities such as assuming leadership when appropriate, registering to vote, and voting knowledgeably on candidates and issues; Understands whether and when moral obligations or constitutional principles require one to refuse to assume certain civic responsibilities
 (CTSS - 'social', '9-12', 'civ5') 
 Language Arts Standard 4- Gathers and uses information for research purposes. Benchmarks: Uses a variety of news source to gather information for research topics; Determines the validity and reliability of primary and secondary source information and uses information accordingly in reporting on a research topic
 (CTSS - 'english', '9-12', '4') 
 Language Arts Standard 7- Demonstrates competence in the general skills and strategies for reading a variety of informational texts. Benchmarks: Determines the effectiveness of techniques used to convey viewpoint; Supports inferences about information in texts by referring to text features
 (CTSS - 'english', '9-12', '7') 
 Language Arts Standard 8- Demonstrates competence in speaking and listening as tools for learning. Benchmarks: Evaluates own and others' effectiveness in group discussions and in formal presentations; Asks questions as a way to broaden and enrich classroom discussions; Adjusts message wording and delivery to particular audiences and for particular purposes
 (CTSS - 'english', '9-12', '8') 

        
Reagan Is Remembered for His Leadership and Optimism

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CHRONOLOGIES (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (90%); HISTORY (89%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (78%); WRITERS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); INTERNET & WWW (72%); GOVERNORS (55%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (50%) American Government; American History; Biographies; Civics; History of North America; Language Arts; United States Intervention in Foreign Affairs

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (94%); GEORGE H W BUSH (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2012



167 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 560 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Stocks Rise on Signs Of Economic Growth
Stocks rose, sending benchmark indexes to six-week highs, on optimism that employment growth will bolster the economy.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index added 17.92 points, or 1.6 percent, to close at 1,140.42, its third-biggest gain this year. All 10 of its industry groups advanced. The Dow Jones industrial average increased 148.26 points, or 1.5 percent, to 10,391.08, as 28 of its 30 members rose. The Nasdaq composite index rose 42 points, or 2.1 percent, to 2,020.62, erasing its loss for the year. [Page C11.]

United States financial markets will close Friday for the funeral of Ronald Reagan. [C11.]

Stewart's Sentencing Is Delayed
The sentencing of Martha Stewart will be postponed until next month while a federal judge considers whether she and her former stockbroker should have a new trial based on the testimony of a government witness who has been accused of lying. The delay will give lawyers for Ms. Stewart and the stockbroker, Peter E. Bacanovic, time to file motions seeking a new trial, which are expected before the end of this week. [C11.]

A former executive of Adelphia Communications denied claims by a prosecution witness that the company kept secret books that hid financial results from bank lenders. [C11.]

Tyco International's former chief executive, L. Dennis Kozlowski, had the power to pay a bonus to the company's top lawyer, Mark A. Belnick, a former director said at Mr. Belnick's criminal trial. [C7.]

Judge Postpones Enron Trial
A federal judge has postponed the start of the first criminal fraud trial stemming from the collapse of the Enron Corporation because it is going to take longer than expected. [C11.]

S.U.V.'s Tip in New Rollover Tests
Popular sport utility vehicles including the Ford Explorer, the Mercury Mountaineer, the Chevrolet Tahoe and the GMC Yukon tipped up on two wheels during a rollover test performed by the government. [C2.]

Consumer Borrowing Rate Falls
Borrowing by American consumers rose $3.9 billion in April, less than half the rate of the month before, the Federal Reserve said. [C7.]

Thomson Seeks to Sell Media Unit
The Thomson Corporation revived plans to sell its media group, which produces trade publications like American Banker and The Bond Buyer. [C6.]

Television Ad Revenue May Fall
Revenue from broadcast television commercials could fall short of last spring's record. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [C6.]

Chip Maker Narrows Forecast
Texas Instruments, the semiconductor maker, narrowed its second-quarter sales forecast and said demand for its products was ''slightly exceeding'' projections. Sales will rise from $3.17 billion to $3.29 billion, the company said in a statement. Profit will be 24 to 26 cents a share, compared with an April estimate of 23 to 26 cents. [C5.]

G.M. Speeds Expansion in China
General Motors announced that the company and its local venture partners would spend more than $3 billion by 2007 to expand operations in China. [World Business, Section W.]

Just the Clothes on Their Backs
Airlines are improving their lost-luggage numbers, but try telling that to the 2.2 million people whose bags failed to arrive last year. [C9.]

Secrets of the Hotel Key Card
Readers question whether hotel key cards are encoded with personal information, including a guest's credit card numbers and expiration dates. Joe Sharkey: On the Road. [C10.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,391.08 up 148.26Nasdaq composite -- 2,020.62 up 42.0010-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.76% down 0.01The euro -- $1.2315 up 0.0019The dollar -- 109.61 yen down 1.39Graph tracks share prices of Texas Instruments for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (97%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); WITNESSES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); SALES PROJECTIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); JUDGES (88%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (84%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (79%); ELECTRONICS (79%); SALES FIGURES (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (75%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); SENTENCING (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); TESTIMONY (72%); LAWYERS (70%); CONSUMER LENDING (70%); BOND MARKETS (69%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (67%); EXECUTIVES (66%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (66%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (65%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (63%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (63%); MOTOR VEHICLES (62%); PERSONAL DEBT (61%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (60%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (82%); THOMSON REUTERS CORP (63%); TIME WARNER INC (55%); TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD (54%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (51%)

TICKER: TRI (TSX) (63%); TRI (NYSE) (63%); TWX (NYSE) (55%); TYC (NYSE) (54%); TXN (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (82%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (63%); NAICS519190 ALL OTHER INFORMATION SERVICES (63%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (63%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (63%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (55%); NAICS561621 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (EXCEPT LOCKSMITHS) (54%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (54%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (51%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (51%)

PERSON: MARTHA STEWART (68%); RONALD REAGAN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2004



168 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 999 words

HEADLINE: Federal Reserve Says Banks Can Continue Overdraft Plans

BYLINE: By By ALEX BERENSON

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve said yesterday that banks could continue controversial programs that consumer groups say function as high-cost loans used mainly by poor and middle-income people.
 The programs enable, and in some cases encourage, customers with low balances to overdraw their checking accounts, allowing the banks to skirt credit laws and collect billions of dollars in fees. They are generally marketed as ''overdraft privilege'' or ''bounce protection'' and have grown very rapidly in the last five years, with at least 1,500 banks now offering them.
 After studying the programs for more than a year, the Federal Reserve said in a statement that they should not be covered under truth-in-lending laws and did not propose any substantive restrictions on them. The Fed did propose some minor changes in the way the programs were marketed. 
 The Fed's stance was a defeat for consumer protection groups, which have campaigned against the programs. 
 The public now has 60 days to comment on the proposed changes, and then the Federal Reserve will consider issuing a final rule, a spokeswoman said.
 Under the programs, the banks cover checks that would otherwise bounce, permitting people to overdraw their accounts with A.T.M. and debit cards. Although banks have always offered lines of credit to higher-income depositors with large balances, these programs are aimed at depositors with smaller balances and usually will not cover overdrafts of more than $500.
 Each time a person overdraws his account, he is charged a fee of $15 to $35, and the overdraft must be paid back in a matter of days or weeks. Some programs also add a daily fee if the overdraft remains outstanding for more than a few days.
 When the overdraft occurs as a result of a debit card or A.T.M. transaction, banks generally do not immediately inform their customers or give them the option to reverse a transaction. Instead, they mail a notice out. So a person who uses a debit card may incur several overdrafts before realizing what has happened.
 The effective interest rates on the programs are enormous; someone who pays a $20 fee for a $100 overdraft that is outstanding for two weeks is paying the equivalent of an annual interest rate of 520 percent. Industry consultants who help banks create and market the programs have said that the fees are paid disproportionately by low- and moderate-income people. 
 One consultant has advised banks to maximize the fees by opening branches ''in supermarkets, particularly supermarkets with a middle to down market and a family target market.'' 
 Banks and consultants say that they are offering a service that lets people avoid paying bounced-check fees to retailers. But many inside and outside the banking business say the programs, while extremely profitable for the banks, are a bad deal for consumers and amount to high-interest loans. 
 For the banking industry, the move to encourage overdrafts is a major shift. In the past, when consumer groups complained that bounced-check fees were excessive, banks generally responded that high fees motivated people to use their checking accounts responsibly. Now, with banks increasingly dependent on fees from consumers, overdrafts have become a source of profit. 
 Groups like the Consumer Federation of America, based in Washington, had encouraged the Federal Reserve to regulate the programs under truth-in-lending laws, which would have forced banks to disclose the effective interest rates they are charging and might have subjected them to usury laws. Banks said that the programs should not be considered lines of credit or subject to lending laws.
 In its statement, the Federal Reserve agreed with the banks and said it had chosen to regulate the programs under ''truth in savings'' laws, which regulate the way that banks market and provide accounts. 
 The Fed said it found that in general the programs were not a problem as long as they were adequately disclosed.
 Robert R. Davis, executive vice president of America's Community Banks, a lobbying group for 1,200 mainly smaller banks, said his group was pleased with the Fed's decision.
 ''Generally, what they are doing is consistent with the policy positions we've maintained,'' Mr. Davis said. ''These programs administered as we feel they should be administered are not credit extensions, they're a service.''
 A spokesman for Washington Mutual, the largest financial institution to promote bounce protection programs, said the company was studying the Fed's proposal and had no comment. Washington Mutual charged customers more than $1 billion in overdraft fees last year, industry analysts estimate.
 Consumer groups have proposed limiting the programs in several ways, like capping fees, barring banks from charging more than a certain number of fees each month or quarter, or forbidding the fees on very small overdrafts. 
 These groups have said that the programs can be especially pernicious when someone has a series of small overdrafts, like a $20 A.T.M. withdrawal followed by a $10 purchase at a convenience store, and is charged an overdraft fee each time. Consumers would not use their accounts that way if they knew they were being charged, the groups have argued.
 The Federal Reserve proposal also does not bar banks from programming their A.T.M.'s to display a balance that includes both the amount available under the overdraft program and the consumer's own balance without distinguishing between the two. For example, some banks tell a person with $100 in his account that he has an ''available balance'' of $400, including a $300 overdraft program. They then charge an overdraft fee for any withdrawal of more than $100.
 While the Fed found that the programs were not loans and should not be covered under credit laws, it also said in its statement that fees charged for the programs ''relate to the institution's own provision of credit.'' A spokeswoman for the Federal Reserve said she could not explain why the Fed had referred to the fees that way.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (91%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (90%); CREDIT REGULATION (90%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (89%); DEBIT CARDS (89%); US TRUTH IN LENDING ACT (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (74%); RETAILERS (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (67%); INTEREST RATES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); CONSULTING SERVICES (64%) Banks and Banking; Consumer Protection; Checks and Checking Accounts; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Law and Legislation; Banks and Banking

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

PERSON: Alex Berenson

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2004



169 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: COMMODITIES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 35 words

 BODY:

COPPER RISES. Copper climbed on speculation that China's economy was growing fast enough to stimulate more industrial demand. In New York, copper for July delivery rose 3.4 cents, or 2.8 percent, to $1.2655 a pound.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks copper prices (near-month contract), since January 2003. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also lists the 52-week highs and lows of selected commodities, along with their closes yesterday and their changes, yesterday, year to date, and over the past 52 weeks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SECURITIES TRADING (89%); FUTURES (89%) Copper, Brass and Bronze; International Trade and World Market; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Futures and Options Trading

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (90%) China

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2004



170 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 35 words

 BODY:

YEN GAINS. The yen rose before a government report that is expected to show Japan's economic growth was revised higher in the first quarter. In New York, the dollar settled at 109.61 yen, down from 111 on Friday.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Japanese yen to the dollar, since January 2003. (Sources by Bloomberg Financial Markets
 Associated Press). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JAPANESE YEN (91%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); TRENDS (88%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (84%) Currency; Economic Conditions and Trends

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (59%) Japan

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2004



171 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 308 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Borrowing Slows, Defying Analysts' Predictions

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Borrowing by American consumers rose $3.9 billion in April, less than half the rate of the month before, to a total of $2.03 trillion, the Federal Reserve reported yesterday.
 The increase means that nonmortgage debt rose at an annual rate of 2.3 percent in April, after a 5.5 percent increase in March. Consumer credit had been expected to increase by $6 billion in April, according to a median forecast of economists. 
 Nonrevolving debt -- which includes financing for vehicles, mobile homes and college tuition, and accounts for more than 60 percent of nonmortgage household credit -- rose by $7.1 billion in April, after rising by $5.5 billion in March.
 Revolving credit, which includes charge cards, fell by $3.2 billion in April, after rising by $3.8 billion in March.
 Growth in jobs and incomes may help consumers keep up with their debt payments as tax refunds run out and as mortgage refinancing, a source of cash for the last several quarters, fades with higher interest rates, economists said.
 The economy added 248,000 workers to payrolls in May, and employment has increased by 1.2 million jobs so far this year, the best five months of job growth since 2000, the Labor Department said Friday in Washington.
 The Commerce Department said last month that personal income in April rose 0.6 percent, matching the biggest rise in more than three years.
 Borrowers kept up with payments. Credit card loans that were written off as uncollectible fell to an annual rate of 6.8 percent of outstanding receivables backed by securities in April, from 7 percent in March, according to Standard & Poor's. Loan balances in which a monthly payment was 30 days or more past due fell to 4.5 percent of receivables, from 4.7 percent in March.
 Retail sales fell in April after the biggest increase in a year the month before, the government previously reported.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Consumer Borrowing''Net change in total consumer installment credit outstanding
 in billions of dollars seasonally adjusted.Annual Pace of ChangeApril: +2.3%March: +5.5Feb.: +1.5Graph tracks total consumer installment credit outstanding from November 2002 through April 2004.(Source by Federal Reserve Board) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); PERSONAL DEBT (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); CONSUMER CREDIT (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (75%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (73%); TUITION FEES (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (68%); MORTGAGE LOANS (53%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (53%); RETAIL SALES (50%) Credit; Consumer Credit 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%) Federal Reserve System

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2004



172 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 649 words

HEADLINE: Agreement Is Reached in Trenton to Limit Highlands Development

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI

DATELINE: TRENTON, June 7 

 BODY:
Ending weeks of political brinkmanship by Democrats, legislative leaders reached an agreement on Monday on a plan to restrict development on 400,000 acres in the northwest section of the state known as the Highlands.
 The bill, which conservationists have called New Jersey's most significant environmental initiative in a generation, would sharply curtail construction near the rivers, lakes and reservoirs that provide drinking water to half of the state's nine million residents. Despite the endorsement of Gov. James E. McGreevey and four former governors, the plan was stalled in committees this spring by construction industry lobbyists and a few Democratic lawmakers from South Jersey who complained their region was being slighted. 
 As the objections dragged on, Governor McGreevey threatened late last month to bypass the Legislature and enact the plan by issuing an executive order. But a compromise was reached this weekend, when the administration agreed to provide property tax relief to some residents of the Pinelands, a protected area in South Jersey, and support new legislation that will force the State Department of Environmental Protection to streamline the process of approving building permits.
 The bill cleared committee in both houses on Monday, and is expected to win approval by the full General Assembly and State Senate by next week. Environmental advocates said the regulations were the most sweeping since the state protected the Pinelands in the 1970's and would help safeguard New Jersey's drinking water supply for generations.
 ''It's not about all the politics and back-room stuff,'' said Jeff Tittel, president of the New Jersey chapter of the Sierra Club. ''It's about protecting drinking water.''
 Mr. McGreevey, who was elected on a promise to curb suburban sprawl and hopes to highlight his environmental record when he seeks re-election next year, said he was gratified that lawmakers had been able to reach a deal. Although some developers had warned that their businesses would be damaged and housing costs would spike, the governor said, ''Preserving the Highlands is good for the environment, good for the economy and good for our state.'' 
 The Highlands is a band of rural and densely wooded land that covers 800,000 acres and sprawls across parts of seven north Jersey counties. Several years ago, the United States Forest Service found that more than 3,000 acres per year were being lost to development, and a commission appointed by Mr. McGreevey found that runoff from new construction in the area was threatening the state's drinking water supply.
 The governor's plan sets aside 395,000 acres on which virtually no development would be allowed, and identifies 145,000 acres of nearby land for limited development. Some northwest New Jersey lawmakers said the plan was heavy-handed and would drive down the property values and create sprawl in communities abutting the protected area.
 ''I do not understand the rush to impose these burdensome and destructive regulations on communities that have successfully managed sprawl in this region for years,'' said Assemblyman Guy Gregg, a Republican from Sussex County.
 But David S. Pringle, campaign director for the New Jersey Environmental Federation, said lakes and reservoirs in the area were in danger because suburbs have been expanding so rapidly in recent years.
 ''It's the drinking water for more than half the state, it's 30 miles from New York City and it's already under massive pressure from developers,'' he said. 
 Senator Stephen M. Sweeney, the Gloucester County Democrat who had delayed the legislation, said,''The battle was worth it because we righted some of the wrongs of the Pinelands Act.'' He added, ''We achieved greater equity for South Jersey, put controls on property taxes, protected the rights of homeowners and improved the long-term effectiveness of the Highlands plan.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); LOBBYING (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); POLITICS (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); LAKES (77%); WATER QUALITY (76%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (76%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); SUBURBS (76%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (75%); TAX LAW (75%); TAX RELIEF (75%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); BUILDING PERMITS (71%); APPROVALS (71%) Water; Conservation of Resources; Law and Legislation; Taxation; Property Taxes; Water

PERSON: David Kocieniewski; James E (Gov) Mcgreevey

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (93%) NEW JERSEY, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) Highlands Region (NJ); New Jersey; Pinelands (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2004



173 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: Dow Jumps 148 in Broad Rally Spurred by Jobs Data

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Stocks rose yesterday, sending benchmark indexes to six-week highs, on optimism that employment growth will bolster the economy.
 ''The economy is recovering, and that's boosting corporate profits,'' said Joseph Stocke, who helps manage $600 million as chief investment officer of StoneRidge Investment Partners in Malvern, Pa. ''Profits should drive the stock market.''
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index added 17.92 points, or 1.6 percent, to close at 1,140.42 yesterday, its third-biggest gain this year. All 10 of its industry groups advanced. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average increased 148.26 points, or 1.5 percent, to close at 10,391.08, as 28 of its 30 members rose. The Nasdaq composite index rose 42 points, or 2.1 percent, to 2,020.62, erasing its loss for the year.
 The S.&P. 500 closed at its highest level since April 23, while the Dow average and the Nasdaq finished at levels not seen since April 27.
 Three stocks advanced for every one that declined on the New York Stock Exchange. Some 1.2 billion shares changed hands on the Big Board, 17 percent fewer than the three-month daily average.
 ImClone Systems, which won United States approval for its cancer drug Erbitux in February, surged $8.89 a share yesterday, to $81.38, after researchers said a treatment that combined the medicine with radiation helped patients with advanced head and neck cancers live twice as long as radiation alone.
 Pfizer, the world's biggest drug maker, climbed 40 cents a share yesterday, to $36.02. The company said over the weekend that an experimental drug to fight kidney cancer had helped shrink or stall tumors in more than two-thirds of patients in a study. Pfizer also said its cholesterol drug Lipitor had ''significantly'' reduced heart attacks and strokes in patients with diabetes.
 Boeing advanced $1.23, or 2.6 percent, to $48.13 a share yesterday, for the third-biggest gain in the Dow average. The company will benefit from a recovery in the commercial aerospace industry, said a Lehman Brothers analyst, Joseph F. Campbell Jr. He raised his rating on the company to overweight from equal-weight, and said Boeing's share price could reach $80 by 2008.
 Texas Instruments, the semiconductor maker, climbed $1.02 a share, to $26.23. The company narrowed its second-quarter sales forecast as it continued to see strong demand for its chips. 
 General Motors gained 89 cents a share, to close at $47.11. The company said it planned to spend $3 billion with its partners in China over the next three years to more than double production and introduce 20 new models there.
 Honeywell International, the No.1 maker of airplane cockpit equipment, rose 95 cents a share, or 2.8 percent, to $34.69, leading the Dow. The company said Friday that it had reached a $100 million settlement of lawsuits over earnings forecasts and the 1999 merger involving the company, and that insurance would cover $85 million.
 Stocks got help yesterday from retailers, which advanced as oil prices held near a five-week low. Circuit City Stores, the nation's No.2 electronics retailer, added 68 cents a share, to $13.14. Lowe's, the home-improvement chain, climbed $1.60, to $55.97. All 30 stocks in the S. &P. 500 retailing index advanced, on hopes that lower energy prices may result in more discretionary income for consumers.
 Crude oil for July delivery dropped as much as 1.9 percent before erasing its losses after 10 a.m. It rose 0.3 percent, to $38.66 a barrel, at the 2:30 p.m. close on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 Treasury prices rose slightly. The price of the benchmark 10-year note increased 4/32, to 99 30/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, dipped to 4.76 percent, from 4.77 percent on Friday. 
 Here are the results of yesterday's auction of three- and six-month bills: 

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	99.689	99.239	High Rate	1.230	1.505	Investment Rate	1.251	1.538	Low Rate	1.200	1.245	Median Rate	1.220	1.490	Total applied for	$39,237,459	$31,376,621	Accepted	$25,158,123	$20,711,661	Noncompetitive	$1,315,409	$857,213	

Both issues are dated June 10, 2004. The three-month bills mature on Sept. 9, 2004 and the six-month bills mature on Dec. 9, 2004.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''3-Month Treasury Bills''High rate at weekly auction.Graph tracks bills from February through May.(Source by The Bond Buyer)Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); CANCER (89%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (86%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (79%); SALES FIGURES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); ELECTRONICS (74%); SALES PROJECTIONS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (72%); LIPID LOWERING AGENTS (70%); EXPERIMENTAL DRUGS (70%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (70%); PUBLIC DEBT (70%); CANCER DRUGS (70%); HEAD & NECK CANCER (70%); HUMAN SUBJECTS (67%); APPROVALS (66%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (65%); KIDNEY DISEASE (65%); KIDNEY CANCER (65%); AVIONICS (65%); STROKES (64%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (64%); CHOLESTEROL (64%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (64%); DIABETES (64%); HEART DISEASE (62%); INTEREST RATES (59%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); PFIZER INC (54%); BOEING CO (53%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (51%); HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC (50%)

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (54%); PFEB (BRU) (54%); PFE (NYSE) (54%); BOE (LSE) (53%); BAB (BRU) (53%); BA (NYSE) (53%); GM (NYSE) (51%); TXN (NASDAQ) (51%); HON (NYSE) (50%); HON (LSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (54%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (54%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (54%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (53%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (51%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (51%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (50%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2004



174 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1107 words

HEADLINE: Thousands Of Home Aides Begin a Strike

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
Thousands of home health care aides went on strike yesterday in New York City, leaving many sick and elderly patients without care for at least part of the day.
 Home care agencies scrambled to send nurses or other aides to care for the patients as the city's largest health care union, 1199/S.E.I.U., called a three-day strike. The union is seeking raises of 43 percent, hoping to increase the wages of 23,000 aides to $10 an hour from the current $7.
 Union leaders asserted that the strike was highly effective, saying that 12,000 home care aides -- nearly all black and Hispanic women -- demonstrated yesterday at a Midtown rally in which Senator Charles E. Schumer and Howard Dean, the former Vermont governor and Democratic presidential candidate, took part. 
 But the home care agencies said the walkout did little damage, saying that more than half of the 23,000 workers crossed the picket line to care for patients.
 At the rally, Dennis Rivera, 1199's president, announced to huge applause that he had just reached a settlement with Partners in Care, which had agreed to pay its 4,000 aides $10 an hour. Mr. Rivera told the boisterous crowd that the union's leaders were recommending that the strike planned for today and tomorrow be canceled and that the union's leaders be given 30 days to negotiate with 10 other agencies. Mr. Rivera said the union could renew its strike against any agencies that did not reach a contract within 30 days.
 To Mr. Rivera's visible surprise, the workers -- shouting an emphatic ''No!'' in a voice vote -- rejected his recommendation.
 ''This is democracy in action,'' Mr. Rivera said. At one point, mumbling to himself, he added, ''I wasn't expecting this.''
 The walkout left some patients angry and many upset. Miguelina Guerra, a 26-year-old paraplegic who lives in the South Bronx, said her aide did not show up as usual at 9 a.m. to take her to the shower.
 ''It was horrible,'' said Ms. Guerra, who lost the use of her legs in a motor vehicle accident. ''Imagine being wet from head to toe. My clothes are usually full of urine by the morning.''
 She telephoned her home care agency, and by noon it had sent a replacement aide, who gave her a shower and served her breakfast, which was four hours later than usual. 
 Ms. Guerra said she had urged her regular aide not to join the strike.
 ''I told her, 'You can't do this,''' she said. '''We're not animals, we're human.'''
 At the rally, Mr. Rivera said that the union was reluctant to go on strike, knowing that patients would be inconvenienced, but that ''we had no other option .''
 The home care aides rejected the recommendation to call off the strike even after Mr. Rivera read a statement from Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg that called on the union ''to end its job action and return to work in order to minimize the disruption of patient care.'' 
 Enthusiastically voting to continue the strike for two more days, Maria Fargas, who earns $6.85 an hour as a home care aide, said: ''It's good that one agency signed a contract, but what's going to happen to the other workers who don't have a contract? We can't forget about them.''
 Standing near the stage, Susan Brown, a mother of three who earns $6.79 an hour after five years as a home care aide, said: ''The pay's no good. You can't do nothing with it.''
 Late yesterday, 1199 officials said that three other agencies -- Progressive, Alliance and Cooperative -- had tentatively agreed to a contract. As a result, their workers as well as those at Partners in Care -- nearly 12,000 in all -- have been notified to return to work today.
 Several home care officials voiced dismay that 1199's rank and file had overridden its leaders and insisted on continuing the strike for two more days. Agency executives said they had been making contingency plans for the walkout for weeks.
 ''The first three hours were extremely chaotic this morning,'' said Michael Elsas, president of Cooperative Home Care Associates, which employs 800 aides in the Bronx. ''A lot of people who said they would work ended up not working, and people who said they wouldn't work ended up working.'' He said that about 2 percent of the agency's patients did not have help at first, but that by 1 p.m., workers had been sent to every patient's home. Carol Rodat, president of the Home Care Association of New York State, which represents home care providers, said she doubted that every agency could afford the settlement reached by Partners in Care. 
 ''It would be difficult for all the providers in New York City to accede to the wage and benefits the union has asked for without additional resources from the state,'' she said.
 Mr. Rivera, who had been hoping to get aides a raise to $10 by 2006, said Partners in Care had agreed to pay half its workers $10 an hour by 2007 and almost all of them $10 an hour by 2008.
 Union officials said they had committed to work with Partners in Care and other agencies to urge state lawmakers not to cut, and hopefully to increase, financing for home care. Medicare and Medicaid provide the overwhelming percentage of such financing.
 At the rally, held on West 43rd Street next to the union's headquarters, thousands of women and a sprinkling of men wore purple union T-shirts. Many carried signs saying, ''Living Wage Now'' and ''Justice for Home Care Aides.''
 After the rally, Mr. Rivera said he was not embarrassed that the workers had rejected his recommendation to suspend their strike. He said he was proud that the workers had become so enthusiastic.
 ''We have achieved a gigantic step,'' he said, ''which is to have people who work isolated from each other, basically 50 percent foreign-born, many of them scared of their shadow, to be willing to participate in a strike, to confront their employers, to fight for their rights.'' 
 Maria Munoz, a 90-year-old in upper Manhattan, said she was pleased that her aide, Arelis Pineo, had reported to work as usual.
 Nonetheless, she said, ''I do support the strike because my aide is a single parent and she doesn't earn enough.''
 Ms. Pineo, an immigrant from the Dominican Republic, added, ''I didn't go on strike because I have three kids to support, and I was worried about being able to pay my bills.''
 Lyle Churchill, communications director for the Visiting Nurse Service, which owns Partners in Care, said his agency wanted the state to help finance the raises the agency agreed to.
 ''We have always shared the view with 1199 that this is a work force that should be better compensated,'' he said. ''There is a fundamental agreement around the principle. It is a matter of designing an economic package that will make it possible.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Home care workers assembled yesterday near union headquarters on West 43rd Street for a rally and march. (Photo by Librado Romero/The New York Times)
 Miguelina Guerra, a paraplegic since a car accident, ate breakfast at lunchtime yesterday, when help arrived. (Photo by Phil Mansfield for The New York Times)(pg. B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME HEALTH CARE (91%); STRIKES (91%); VISITING NURSES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); COMPANION & HOMEMAKER SERVICES (78%); PARALYSIS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); AGING (73%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (68%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (68%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (50%) Medicine and Health; Home Health Care; Labor; Wages and Salaries; Strikes; Medicine and Health

ORGANIZATION: SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (59%) Service Employees International Union; Partners in Health (Orgn)

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (58%) Steven Greenhouse; Dennis Rivera

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2004



175 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 123 words

HEADLINE: Gas Pump Woes?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''Many Feeling Pinch After Newest Surge in U.S. Fuel Prices'' (front page, June 1):
 You report that a Denver-area couple may be forced by rising gasoline prices to give up their weekly 30-mile trip delivering meals to housebound older people.
 A typical car averaging 20 miles per gallon requires a gallon and a half for the trip. With the price of gas up by about 50 cents a gallon from a year ago, the drive now costs the couple an additional 75 cents.
 Higher energy taxes are indispensable for ending America's overconsumption of fossil fuels. Overplaying the damage from higher fuel costs makes it harder to enact them.

CHARLES KOMANOFF
New York, June 2, 2004

The writer is an economic consultant to environmental groups.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); GASOLINE PRICES (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (88%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); GASOLINE MARKETS (71%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Life Styles 

PERSON: Charles Komanoff

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2004



176 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1621 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Is Now Pursuing Americans Who Commit Sex Crimes Overseas

BYLINE: By ERIC LICHTBLAU and JAMES DAO

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 7 

 BODY:
One suspect was a convicted pedophile from Baltimore accused of molesting boys in two Asian countries. Another was a doctor from Georgia who the Russian police said drugged his young victims in a St. Petersburg hotel. A third was a retired Army sergeant from Seattle who may have molested up to 50 children.
 The three men would once have almost certainly fallen outside the grasp of United States prosecutors. But with the long arm of American law growing ever longer, all three could face significant prison sentences in the United States because of a measure passed by Congress last year that gives federal officials much more power to prosecute people suspected of molesting children on foreign soil. Officials have already used their expanded authority to prosecute five American men, four of whom are awaiting trial. Dozens more investigations are under way from Sri Lanka to Costa Rica.
 American officials are hoping their investigations will help break what they believe are shadowy Internet networks used by pedophiles to share photographs of children and travel tips about countries with thriving child sex industries. 
 But so far, prosecutions under the new law have focused on people who traveled on their own.
 The initiative dovetails with two priorities for the Bush administration: adopting a more aggressive agenda abroad to protect American interests at home and attacking what President Bush has called the ''special evil'' of child trafficking and exploitation. In the process, federal officials have forged an alliance with humanitarian groups in exposing havens for so-called sex tourists. 
 ''We're no longer having to fight alone on this,'' said Joseph Mettimano, child protection policy adviser for a Christian-based group called World Vision. ''We have a very active and very engaged government power working with us now.''
 But that new power is also prompting debate in federal courts and in public policy circles over how far the United States can and should go to combat child exploitation abroad. 
 Some critics of the initiative, including defense lawyers and law professors, question why, at a time of pressing counterterrorism needs at home, investigators from the Department of Homeland Security are using scarce resources to go after molesters abroad. Others accuse the Bush administration and Congress of overreaching by seeking to create what amounts to a global police presence. ''What we're seeing is the ever-expanding authority of the federal government in the criminal justice arena,'' said Mike Filipovic, a public defender in Seattle who represents Michael L. Clark, the former sergeant picked up in Cambodia.
 ''Stopping child abuse is a laudable goal, but it's really somewhat patronizing to these other countries to say that we feel that the only way to solve this problem is for us to do it for you,'' Mr. Filipovic said. ''The issue here is should our government be able to prosecute our citizens for acts committed anywhere in the world?'' 
 Some child-advocacy groups estimate that as many as 25 percent of all sex tourists abroad come from the United States. Although the data is inexact, Americans who have sex with children abroad are thought to number in the thousands, with hard-core pedophiles, casual tourists and business people taking advantage of lax enforcement, child advocacy groups and American officials say.
 Indeed, some countries in Southeast Asia and Latin America are now seen as havens for molesters, turning a blind eye or even tacitly welcoming such tourists to promote their economies, experts say. Against that backdrop, agents for the Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, within the Department of Homeland Security, have mounted an aggressive effort with their new power. Investigations number in the dozens, officials said, with targets in Cambodia, the Philippines, Thailand, Sri Lanka, India, Russia, Mexico, Costa Rica and elsewhere.
 American agents are careful to open investigations only with the cooperation of host countries, said Michael J. Garcia, who oversees immigration and customs enforcement. In Cambodia, for instance, the police have in several cases charged Americans under local ordinances, then held them for extradition in close coordination with American officials.
 And in the Washington suburbs, several analysts at the immigration agency's cybercrimes unit now peruse the Internet and follow tips about sex tourism networks abroad. 
 The government's expanded legal authority to pursue molesters abroad comes as part of a 2003 federal law known as the Protect Act, a package of child-protection measures best known for the creation of the Amber Alert for missing children. A more obscure provision eliminated an obstacle for prosecutors seeking charges against Americans accused of molesting children abroad.
 Previously, prosecutors had to prove that a suspect left the United States ''for the purpose'' of molesting a child, a standard that authorities said made it almost impossible to bring charges. The Protect Act eliminated that and imposed a 30-year sentence for a conviction.
 ''The big change here,'' said Charles A. Ray, the American ambassador to Cambodia, ''is that we can actually take aggressive action against these people and see results.''
 Mr. Clark, who lived in Cambodia for about five years before his arrest and had returned occasionally to Seattle, is the first to challenge the new law. According to the criminal complaint against Mr. Clark, he told investigators that he had molested ''approximately 40 to 50 children, stating that some of them may have been 18 years old.'' He was charged with molesting two boys and pleaded guilty to the charges in March. But he also argued that the legal expansion was unconstitutional and an abuse of Congress's authority to regulate commerce.
 On April 26 a federal judge in Seattle upheld the constitutionality of the law, saying Congress had acted within its power. Mr. Clark is to be sentenced June 25 but may still appeal the ruling.
 American officials acknowledge that privately, some countries remain wary of working so closely with United States agencies. But so far, American officials say, foreign nations have been largely receptive. 
 Cambodia, in particular, is considered ''a paradise'' for foreign pedophiles, said Aarti Kapoor, a lawyer with a Cambodia-based group that assists prostitutes and abuse victims. Many residents are young and impoverished, the country's judicial system is prone to bribery and corruption and neighboring Thailand-- also a favorite destination for sex tourists -- has cracked down on the sex trade, Ms. Kapoor said. ''U.S. law enforcement represents the only hope of finding justice,'' she said. 
 Federal officials point to Richard A. Schmidt as just the kind of person that the new law was intended to snare. 
 Mr. Schmidt, 61, is a former schoolteacher from the Baltimore area who was repeatedly arrested in the mid-1980's for abusing boys. 
 In 1987, Mr. Schmidt was sentenced to an 18-year prison term after being convicted of multiple counts of sexually abusing a 12-year-old boy in Baltimore, court records show. He served 13 years, spending part of that time enrolled in a sex-offender program, officials said. 
 In 2000, he was released early for good behavior and settled in an upscale neighborhood in north Baltimore. But in 2003, state investigators said that he had tried to take pornographic photographs of two boys in the Baltimore area, state officials said. A warrant for his arrest was issued, but he fled, first to North Carolina and then to the Philippines.
 Last year, the Philippine police arrested Mr. Schmidt and charged him with having sex with underage boys. He fled again, this time to Cambodia. And within weeks, he was again spotted having liaisons with young boys.
 This time, workers with private child welfare organizations spotted Mr. Schmidt taking a Cambodian boy to his apartment in Phnom Penh. According to court papers, the workers called the Cambodian police, who arrested Mr. Schmidt. Cambodian officials notified American investigators, who interviewed Mr. Schmidt and began building a case for his indictment in the United States.
 Two Cambodian brothers, ages 10 and 13, told investigators that Mr. Schmidt had taken them to his apartment several times, teaching them English and computer games, then photographing them naked in the shower. A Cambodian judge released Mr. Schmidt last Dec. 25, but confiscated his passport and placed him on police watch. 
 Two days later, a social worker with a French group, Action for the Children, saw Mr. Schmidt check into a guesthouse with a 12-year-old boy, officials said. The social worker, who had been tailing Mr. Schmidt, called the police, who arrested Mr. Schmidt again. The boy later told investigators that Mr. Schmidt had sodomized him.
 Mr. Schmidt was returned to Baltimore in February to face charges under the Protect Act and is in jail awaiting trial. His lawyer could not be reached for comment. 
 One group, the International Justice Mission, has investigators who build cases against suspected offenders, then turn the evidence over to law enforcement officials. The group has also been training Cambodian police in collecting evidence that can be used in American courts. 
 Another group, World Vision, serves as a clearinghouse for tips on foreign sexual predators and has mounted a $2-million advertising campaign, financed in part by the State Department, to warn Americans against committing sexual offenses abroad. The group plans campaigns in Thailand and Costa Rica, and with billboards near the airport in Phnom Penh and elsewhere in Cambodia.
 ''Abuse a child in this country,'' reads one poster, ''go to jail in yours.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Ads are being placed at airports in several countries as warnings. (pg. A1)
 Aarti Kapoor, right, a lawyer with a Cambodia-based group that assists prostitutes and abuse victims, with a 19-year-old victim. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. A20)Chart: ''CASEBOOK: More Power for Sex-Crime Prosecutions''Five men in the United States have been charged under a provision passed by Congress last year that gives the authorities broad power to prosecute Americans for sex crimes against minors committed overseas. Four of the five are now awaiting trial. One, Michael L. Clark, has pleaded guilty and will be sentenced on June 25.Michael L. Clark, 70SeattleAn Army veteran, he was charged in September 2003 with having sexual relations in Cambodia with two boys, ages about 10 and 13.Gary E. Jackson, 56Bainbridge I., Wash.He was charged in November 2003 with having sexual relations with three boys in Cambodia. The authorities said he used a camera to record his sexual contact with the boys.Gregory C. Kapordelis, 43Gainesville, Ga.An anesthesiologist and physician at summer camps, he was charged in April 2004 with molesting under-age boys at a hotel in St. Petersburg, Russia, in 2003.Richard A. Schmidt, 61BaltimoreA former schoolteacher, he was charged in February 2004 with several counts of molesting under-age boys in the Philippines and Cambodia.John W. Seljan, 86Garden Grove, Calif.He has been charged with attempting to fly to the Philippines to have sex with two pre-teenage girls. He was arrested at Los Angeles International Airport in October 2003 carrying pornography.(Source by Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Department of Homeland Security)(pg. A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEX OFFENSES (94%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (92%); CHILD ABUSE (91%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (91%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNET CRIME (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CHILD TRAFFICKING (78%); CHILD PROTECTIVE SERVICES (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); SENTENCING (78%); ARMIES (78%); CHILD PORNOGRAPHY (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); OBSCENITY (78%); TERRORISM (77%); CRIMINAL LAW (76%); LAWYERS (75%); PUBLIC DEFENDERS (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); INTERNET & WWW (72%); COUNTERTERRORISM (68%); HUMAN TRAFFICKING (65%); PROSTITUTION (64%); NATIONAL SECURITY (61%); RELIGION (50%) Sex Crimes; Law and Legislation; Child Abuse and Neglect; Computers and the Internet; Sex Crimes; Pornography and Obscenity

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (64%) George W (Pres) Bush; James Dao; Eric Lichtblau

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (94%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (94%); GEORGIA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); CAMBODIA (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); COSTA RICA (92%); ASIA (92%); PHILIPPINES (92%) United States; Cambodia; Sri Lanka; Costa Rica

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2004



177 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1097 words

HEADLINE: G.M. to Speed Up Expansion in China

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: BEIJING, June 7 

 BODY:
Brushing aside slowing growth in car sales and broader concerns about the Chinese economy, General Motors executives announced on Monday that their company and its local venture partners would spend more than $3 billion by 2007 to expand operations in China.
 The heavy investment, to build new factories, expand existing ones and greatly increase G.M.'s engineering and design activities, is the latest and largest in a series of big investments by the world's leading automakers, all of which are racing to profit from the world's fastest-growing economy.
 Volkswagen, Toyota, Nissan and DaimlerChrysler are all engaged in big expansion projects here. So are their joint-venture partners, notably the Shanghai Automotive Industrial Corporation, First Auto Works and the Dongfeng Motor Corporation. 
 The plans underline the extent to which some of the world's largest companies continue to place big bets here despite growing risks. 
 New car prices are falling, bank regulators are limiting car loans and the economy may be slowing as Beijing, nervous about rising inflation, applies the brakes.
 A publication controlled by the central bank warned on Monday of a possible need to raise interest rates if inflation continues to rise. Also on Monday, three government agencies jointly announced restrictions on the ability of foreign banks to bring money into China, as a way to discourage capital inflow that has fed growth in the money supply and inflation.
 The China Banking Regulatory Commission recently began urging banks to be more cautious in lending to car buyers. And a slew of government agencies are seeking to slow real estate speculation, the source of many fortunes that are now being spent partly on new cars.
 After growth approached 10 percent in the first quarter, the government has been trying to slow it to a still brisk and possibly more sustainable annual pace of 7 percent.
 Phil Murtaugh, the chairman and chief executive of the G.M. China Group, said that G.M.'s sales in May were still up a healthy 20 percent in China from a year earlier, but this came after soaring at an annual pace of 80 percent earlier this year. 
 China has so few cars relative to its population that even if the economy does slow, G.M. will still be able to sell a lot of cars here, Mr. Murtaugh said.
 ''Let's assume there's a dip -- well, there are 8 cars per 1,000 people'' of driving age, he noted. That may leave more room for growth than in Brazil, which has 122 cars for 1,000 driving-age adults, or the United States, with 940.
 G.M.'s expansion announcement comes two days before the Beijing auto show opens on Wednesday, and is an acceleration by the company of its already ambitious growth plans.
 The company said last autumn that it would increase its annual production capacity to 865,000 cars, minivans and pickups by 2007 from 530,000 now.
 But on Monday Mr. Murtaugh said that the company's new goal would be an annual capacity of 1.3 million vehicles in 2007. G.M. will also expand its design and engineering center in Shanghai so that by 2010, the operations will be able to produce entirely new models, as G.M. already does in the United States and in Germany.
 Even if the economy does slow somewhat in the short run, he said, ''It's only a matter of time before that 1.3 million won't be enough.''
 Mr. Murtaugh insisted that anything less than brisk expansion now would be a mistake.
 ''For the people doing that, I believe there's a high risk of danger, of the margins not being there when they get there,'' he said, in a thinly veiled jab at the Ford Motor Company, which has been more cautious in China, although Ford is seeking permission to build a small car factory in Nanjing.
 Cash generated by the joint ventures will cover all of the more than $3 billion needed for G.M.'s latest plans, which also include a leap into auto financing in China and the introduction of three Cadillac models, Mr. Murtaugh said. 
 While G.M. does not publicly break down its profits by country, financial analysts say that the Chinese operations have been highly profitable over the last several years because G.M., an early entrant in the market, has benefited from high trade barriers that have limited imports.
 G.M. has paid some dividends from its operations here to the parent company in the United States, but mostly has reinvested them in further expansion here.
 Paying for expansion through retained profits means that G.M. needs to keep making money here, but competition is intensifying. China has been gradually lowering its trade barriers following its entry into the World Trade Organization in November 2001, while other automakers are building more cars here.
 According to the People's Bank of China, the average price for which automakers are selling cars to dealers and large buyers has fallen 8.8 percent in the 12 months through April. G.M. has lowered prices repeatedly in China, most recently on May 17; Mr. Murtaugh said that he anticipated few further reductions as pretax car prices in China are now close to world levels.
 Michael Dunne, the president of Automotive Resources Asia, a consulting firm based in Shanghai and Bangkok, said that in growing from less than 1 percent of the Chinese car market to 11.5 percent now, G.M. had repeatedly bet on further growth when other automakers had been more pessimistic.
 ''They've gotten it right every step so far -- their market share is up, their profits are up,'' he said. ''The one question is how hard the government will weigh down on growth -- if they really come down on loans, that will hurt.''
 Regulators are worried that banks have been lending recklessly throughout the current boom, and have tried to restrain them for fear that they will add to the banks' formidable collections of nonperforming loans. 
 Christian Weidemann, G.M.'s director of financial services in China, said that the company was close to winning permission from regulators to begin offering loans to dealers and car buyers through its auto finance subsidiary, the General Motors Acceptance Corporation, much as it does in the United States.
 Mr. Weidemann estimated that the buyers of only 18.5 percent of the cars sold in China last year took out loans, with the rest paying cash. That is far below the 60 percent to 85 percent of buyers who use loans or leases to acquire vehicles in developed countries, suggesting considerable room for growth, he said.
 Mr. Dunne estimated that the proportion of cars being financed with loans in China had dropped to 10 percent in recent weeks because of the government's regulatory crackdown.


CORRECTION-DATE: June 9, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption in World Business on Tuesday with an article about plans by General Motors to speed expansion in China misidentified a Cadillac on display before an auto show in Beijing. It was the Sixteen, a concept car, not the XLR.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A luxury Cadillac XLR on display before a large auto show in Beijing. G.M. expects to spend more than $3 billion on expansion in China. (Photo by Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)(pg. W1)
 Phil Murtaugh of G.M. China says anything less than brisk expansion now would be a mistake. (Photo by Reuters)(pg. W8)Chart: ''Cars produced in China Monthly''Graph tracks automobile production from 1993-2004 (2004 up until April)(Source by CEIC Data Company) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INFLATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (78%); BANKING IN CHINA (78%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PLANT CAPACITY (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); REAL ESTATE (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); JOINT VENTURES (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); MONEY SUPPLY (72%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); ENGINEERING (71%); DRIVING AGE (71%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (57%); INTEREST RATES (51%) Automobiles; International Trade and World Market; Production; Sales; Automobiles

COMPANY: DONGFENG MOTOR GROUP CO LTD (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: General Motors Corp

TICKER: 0489 (HKSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336390 OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (58%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: Phil Murtaugh; Keith Bradsher

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%); EAST CHINA (90%) CHINA (99%); BRAZIL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) China; Shanghai (China)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2004



178 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 499 words

PERSON: James Michael Roche

HEADLINE: James M. Roche Dies at 97; Led G.M. in the Late 1960's

BYLINE: By WOLFGANG SAXON

 BODY:
James Michael Roche, a former chairman and chief executive of General Motors, died on Sunday at his home in Belleair, Fla. He was 97.
 His death was announced by the company at its headquarters in Detroit. 
 Mr. Roche, who started his 44-year career in the auto industry as a statistician, led General Motors through the social turbulence that troubled Detroit and the rest of the country in the late 1960's. After his term as chairman and chief executive, from 1967 to 1971, he continued to play an active role on the board and its finance committee until the spring of 1977.
 During his tenure, he became known for his efforts to establish G.M. as a good corporate citizen in the eyes of Detroiters. He was credited with spurring the company's board to establish a public policy committee, which encouraged a relationship with the community beyond G.M.'s headquarters building. In 1971, Mr. Roche was responsible for the nomination of the Rev. Leon H. Sullivan to the G.M. board; Mr. Sullivan became one of the first African-Americans to join a major corporate board.
 After Mr. Roche's retirement when he reached the company's mandatory retirement age, 65, he remained involved in Detroit's civic affairs as the city struggled with the aftermath of riots in 1968. He moved to Belleair in 1972.
 James Roche was born in Elgin, Ill. After his father died in the 1919 flu epidemic, he worked to support the family. He graduated from high school in 1923 and, lacking a college degree, got a clerical job the next year in Chicago, honing a skill with statistics.
 In 1927, at 21, he was hired by General Motors as an assistant to the Chicago branch manager and statistician for the Cadillac division's Chicago office. From there he rose steadily for 30 years in jobs in business management, personnel, public relations and sales.
 He was named Cadillac general manager and a G.M. vice president in 1957, producing record sales for the Cadillac brand. He was promoted again in 1960 to oversee the entire G.M. work force in sales, marketing, promotion, service, parts and dealer relations. 
 He was elected executive vice president and a board member in 1962 and became G.M.'s president in 1965. He held that post until 1967, when he was named chairman and chief executive.
 After the 1968 Detroit riots, he helped found the New Detroit organization to work for the city's recovery. He was co-chairman of the Detroit Economic Growth Corporation, co-chairman of the Detroit Growth Council for Economic Development, vice chairman of the Tuskegee Institute, vice chairman of the Urban Coalition and chairman of the Radio Free Europe Fund.
 He was also a member of the boards of PepsiCo, the LTV Corporation and the New York Stock Exchange, among others.
 His wife, Louise McMillan Roche, died in 2001 after 71 years of marriage. Mr. Roche is survived by a daughter, Joan Quinlan, of Belleair; two sons, James M., of Carefree, Ariz., and Douglas, of Birmingham, Mich.; 12 grandchildren; and 15 great-grandchildren.


GRAPHIC: Photo: James M. Roche (Photo by The New York Times, 1971) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); EXECUTIVES (90%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); SALES FIGURES (77%); CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); COMMUNITY RELATIONS (77%); RETIREMENT AGE (73%); MANDATORY RETIREMENT (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (72%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (71%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (71%); EMERGING MARKETS (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (68%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); INFLUENZA (64%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (63%); STOCK EXCHANGES (50%); EPIDEMICS (50%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (90%); LTV CORP (60%); PEPSICO INC (50%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (50%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (90%); PEP (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (60%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (50%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (50%)

Wolfgang Saxon

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2004



179 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: Reagan's Promised Land

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS. 
E-mail: dabrooks@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Of all the words written upon the death of Ronald Reagan, none have recurred more frequently than ''optimist.'' Reagan had a sunny, hopeful disposition, we've been reminded again and again. 
 But this slights the truth. Reagan's optimism wasn't mainly a personality trait. It flowed from his core convictions and makes no sense if severed from the beliefs that gave it force. 
 To understand the intellectual content of Reagan's optimism, start with American conservatism before Reagan. It was largely a movement of disenfranchised thinkers who placed great emphasis on human frailty and sin, the limitations of what we can know, and the tragic nature of history.
 Conservatives felt that events were moving in the wrong direction and that the American spiritual catastrophe was growing ever worse. Whittaker Chambers observed that when he left communism and joined the democratic camp, he was joining the losing side of history. In his influential book ''Ideas Have Consequences,'' Richard Weaver argued that American society was in the midst of ''a fearful descent.'' To describe modern life, the leading conservative thinker Russell Kirk used words like barrenness, sterility, inanity, hideousness, vulgarity, sensationalism and deformity.
 Conservatives looked back sadly to customs and institutions that were being eroded. What was needed, many argued, was a restoration of stability. ''The recovery of order in the soul and order in society is the first necessity of this century,'' Kirk argued.
 Reagan agreed with these old conservatives about communism and other things. But he transformed their movement from a past- and loss-oriented movement to a future- and possibility-oriented one, based on a certain idea about America. As early as 1952 during a commencement address at William Woods College in Missouri, Reagan argued, ''I, in my own mind, have always thought of America as a place in the divine scheme of things that was set aside as a promised land.''
 Reagan described America as a driving force through history, leading to the empire of liberty. He seemed to regard freedom's triumph as a historical inevitability. He couldn't look at mainstream American culture as anything other than the delightful emanation of this venture. He could never feel alienated from middle American life, or see it succumbing to a spiritual catastrophe.
 So of course he was an optimist; he knew how the human story ended. While others regarded the Soviet Union as permanent, he couldn't. ''My idea of American policy toward the Soviet Union is simple and some would say simplistic. It is this: 'We win and they lose,' '' he once said. 
 Unlike earlier conservatives, he had a boyish faith in science and technology (Star Wars). He embraced immigration, and preferred striving to stability. On the economic front, he inspired writers like George Gilder, Warren T. Brookes and Julian Simon, who rhapsodized about entrepreneurialism and wealth creation.
 Reagan seemed genial, but he was really quite aggressive. In 1976, he challenged a sitting Republican president. In 1980, he portrayed Jimmy Carter as a dour defeatist. During his presidency, he pushed authoritarian regimes toward democracy. 
 Once it was liberals who rhapsodized about progress. Even stoic Woodrow Wilson once exulted: ''Progress! No word comes more often or more naturally to the lips of modern man, as if the things it stands for were almost synonymous with life itself.'' But since Reagan's time, it sometimes appears that liberals and conservatives have traded places.
 Now Democrats often accuse Republicans of recklessness and utopianism while Republicans accuse Democrats of being the timorous defenders of the status quo. Democrats are more likely to emphasize fiscal prudence, foreign policy caution and economic security.
 But it's all really about American exceptionalism. Reagan embraced America as a permanent revolutionary force. His critics came to fear exactly that sort of zeal. John Kerry's father, Richard, was a representative one. He wrote a book, just after the Reagan years, arguing that the Reagan brand of exceptionalism is a danger. Americans are mistaken if they think all people want to copy their institutions, he argued. Instead, the U.S. should marshal its power within a web of multilateral arrangements, or it will create all sorts of problems. 
 Reagan's outlook, however, was a bold and challenging optimism. The debate Reagan launched is the one we are still having today. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WRITERS (78%); POLITICS (68%); IMMIGRATION (65%) United States Politics and Government; Presidents and Presidency (US)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (93%) Ronald Wilson Reagan; David Brooks

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOURI, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2004



180 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1139 words

HEADLINE: Fed Officials Seek to Ease Fears of a Surge in Inflation

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 6 

 BODY:
Still hoping to go slow in raising interest rates from their lowest levels since the late 1950's, top officials at the Federal Reserve are trying to reassure investors that inflation will remain tamer than many of them fear.
 In a series of recent speeches and comments, Fed officials in Washington and around the country have argued at length that neither the new rise in employment nor the recent jumps in consumer prices mean that the economy is in danger of overheating.
 ''The recent pickup in price increases probably does not represent the leading edge of steadily worsening inflation,'' Donald L. Kohn, a Fed governor with close ties to Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, declared in a speech here on Friday.
 In a point-by-point assessment of inflationary signals, Mr. Kohn contended that most of the recent run-up in prices stemmed from one-time factors. He suggested that the surge in commodity prices, including oil, and a rebound from particularly low inflation last year did not portend a new trend and that recent events were still consistent with ''effective price stability.'' 
 Mr. Kohn is not alone among Fed insiders. At a time when many investors and consumers have become increasingly alarmed about a sustained rise in prices, Mr. Greenspan and many other top officials have gone out of their way to argue that inflation is likely to remain under control for the foreseeable future.
 The issue is important to Mr. Greenspan, who faces a Senate confirmation hearing on Thursday for a fifth term as Fed chairman. For if the best thinking at the Federal Reserve turns out to be wrong, the Fed could be forced to be considerably more aggressive as it embarks on an expected series of rate increases beginning this summer. By doing so, it might run the risk of financial disruptions among institutional investors and heavily indebted consumers.
 Fed officials are keenly aware that they have much to lose if their prediction is wrong. But while they have all but announced their intention to start raising interest rates at their meeting on June 30, they are still hoping to move more slowly in the following months than they have in past cycles of tightening monetary policy.
 For a full year now, the benchmark federal funds rate has been at 1 percent, the lowest since 1958. Many analysts expect the Fed to start by raising rates no more than a quarter-point each time it meets (and it could occasionally skip a rate increase) in an effort to gradually lift this key lending rate to somewhere around 4 percent by the end of 2005. 
 But if some on Wall Street are right, the Fed may not have that luxury and could be forced by subsequent evidence of stronger-than-expected growth and higher prices to engineer interest rate increases of half a percentage point at one or more of the eight monetary policy meetings it ordinarily holds each year.
 Adjusted for inflation, the federal funds rate is well below zero at a time when economic growth is above 4 percent a year and job creation is rising.
 Hours before Mr. Kohn spoke on Friday, the Labor Department reported that 248,000 jobs were added in May and more than 900,000 since February. Other indicators of economic growth -- retail sales, new orders for capital goods and surveys showing that company executives think they have more flexibility to raise their prices -- all are running higher than expected and suggest that the Fed has achieved its goal of pulling the economy out of the doldrums. Now the question is whether it has done its job too well.
 Bond investors are worried. Prices on inflation-protected Treasury securities have surged in the last two months, and now reflect an assumption that underlying inflation will rise to some 2.7 percent -- higher than the Fed's comfort zone of 1 percent to 2 percent -- in the next few years.
 Mark Kiesel, executive vice president of Pimco, which manages about $400 billion in fixed-income securities, said that nominal economic growth, before subtracting for inflation, is nearly 7 percent a year. By contrast, the federal funds rate is 1 percent.
 ''That is just a huge gap,'' said Mr. Kiesel, who predicts that inflation will climb to about 3 percent over the next year.
 But even as debate has broken out on Wall Street over whether the Fed is behind the curve in reacting to inflation fears, the central bankers themselves seem unusually united in their opinions. Federal Reserve governors, ensconced in a row of offices at headquarters here along Constitution Avenue, often clash in their views with the independent presidents of Federal Reserve district banks around the country. In this case, though, senior officials have so far hewed closely to Mr. Greenspan's views. 
 ''I agree with him on the fundamentals,'' William C. Poole, president of the St. Louis Fed and a longtime hawk on inflation, said in a recent interview.
 Alfred Broaddus, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond and another longtime worrier about inflation pressures, has sided with Mr. Greenspan as well.
 ''I am not dismissing the risk of an unwelcome further increase in inflation,'' Mr. Broaddus told bankers in Virginia last month. But, he continued, most of the fundamental trends in productivity and the evidence that factories and the labor markets are still capable of tapping plenty of unused capacity and talent favored an outlook for low inflation. ''I think the risk is manageable,'' he added.
 Mr. Greenspan and many other Fed governors predict that productivity will continue to climb rapidly, allowing companies to turn out more goods without adding workers and to make higher profits without substantially raising prices.
 In recent comments, Fed officials have argued that rapid productivity growth will continue to dampen inflationary pressures and that the economy still has considerable ''slack'' in the form of unemployed workers -- 2.6 million jobs were lost before the recent rises began -- as well as unused factory capacity.
 Another Fed governor, Ben S. Bernanke, said in a recent speech, ''In my own view, economic developments over the next year are reasonably likely to be consistent with a gradual adjustment of policy.'' 
 Even if wages do start to climb as companies hire more workers, Mr. Greenspan and other top Fed officials argue that companies will initially absorb higher costs rather than risk losing market share.
 In his speech on Friday, Mr. Kohn said companies had enjoyed such high profit margins from recent productivity increases that they could easily accommodate higher wages without raising their own prices.
 Far from being surprised about the recent rise in employment, he said this had resolved the mystery of why so few jobs were created last year. ''This is the last piece of the puzzle,'' Mr. Kohn remarked. ''Things are now making sense.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Donald Kohn, a Federal Reserve governor, expects price stability despite the recent jump in costs. (Photo by Bloomberg News)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (77%); TRENDS (76%) United States Economy; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Labor; Hiring and Promotion; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (79%) Edmund L Andrews; Donald L Kohn; Alan (Chmn) Greenspan

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2004



181 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 595 words

HEADLINE: Japan Leader Calls on North Korea to Dismantle Nuclear Program

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE

DATELINE: TOKYO, June 7 

 BODY:
If North Korea wants Japanese economic aid and diplomatic ties, it must first dismantle its nuclear weapons program and account for Japanese abducted by its agents, Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi said in an interview on Monday.
 ''North Korea desired the normalization of relations with Japan,'' Mr. Koizumi said, recounting his meeting on May 22 with North Korea's leader, Kim Jong Il. 
 ''I told him face to face, 'If you compare what you gain from nuclear weapons and what you gain from dismantlement of your own nuclear program, there would be a difference of heaven and earth,''' Mr. Koizumi, said in the interview with American and European reporters here before flying to the United States for the Group of 8 summit meeting. 
 Before securing the visit to Pyongyang, North Korea's capital, an envoy to Mr. Koizumi had hinted that normalization could happen in coming years, unlocking as much as $10 billion in Japanese compensation for its colonization of northern Korea in the early part of the 20th century.
 Washington has enlisted North Korea's neighbors in a regional effort to persuade the North to dismantle its nuclear program. The North has said it is building nuclear weapons to protect itself from the United States and wants one-on-one talks with Washington.
 ''On the nuclear issue, Mr. Kim Jong Il said it is a matter between North Korea and the U.S.,'' Mr. Koizumi said of his talks last month with Mr. Kim. ''I disagreed, and I said Japan is also involved, and he showed understanding.''
 North Korea has an arsenal of medium-range missiles, and many Japanese feel that Japan is the most likely potential target, rather than China or Russia. The Chinese have proposed holding a round of six-country regional talks on North Korea's nuclear threat later this month. Many analysts have low expectations for such a meeting, partly because North Korea seems to be waiting for the outcome of the American presidential election.
 Asked for the message he would transmit to Mr. Bush and the other leaders, Mr. Koizumi said, ''I felt personally that North Korea was interested in moving forward in a positive way with the six-party talks.''
 After his visit to Pyongyang last month Mr. Koizumi enjoyed a bounce in the polls. He returned from the trip with five children of Japanese citizens abducted by North Korea almost a quarter century ago, which he had secured from the North in exchange for a promise of economic assistance. But a poll taken over the weekend shows that Mr. Koizumi's approval rating has dropped 10.4 points, to 44.5 percent. Touching on another unpopular issue here, the deployment of about 550 Japanese soldiers to southern Iraq, Mr. Koizumi called for more involvement by the United Nations and the Iraqi people.
 ''I have very strongly urged the United States to do that,'' he said, referring to having Washington work closely with the United Nations. ''I have always mentioned very strongly that the people who can bring about the stable democratic government in Iraq is not the American people, it is not the United Nations, it is the Iraqi people, '' he said
 Drawing a lesson from Japanese history, he called on Iraqis to unite to form a democratic and stable government.
 ''People came to recognize that internal strife and confusion would render Japan a colony of foreign countries,'' he said, referring to 19th-century civil conflict in Japan. ''By overcoming division and opening the country to the outside world, the foundation was laid for the building of the modern country of Japan.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (94%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (90%); DISARMAMENT (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); TERRORISM (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (66%); ARMED FORCES (60%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (50%) Kidnapping; Atomic Weapons; Diplomatic Recognition; Foreign Aid; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (56%)

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (89%) Junichiro (Prime Min) Koizumi; Kim Jong Il; James Brooke

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%) JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); CHINA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); IRAQ (79%) North Korea; Japan

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2004



182 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: The Great Taxer

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN. 
E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Over the course of this week we'll be hearing a lot about Ronald Reagan, much of it false. A number of news sources have already proclaimed Mr. Reagan the most popular president of modern times. In fact, though Mr. Reagan was very popular in 1984 and 1985, he spent the latter part of his presidency under the shadow of the Iran-Contra scandal. Bill Clinton had a slightly higher average Gallup approval rating, and a much higher rating during his last two years in office.
 We're also sure to hear that Mr. Reagan presided over an unmatched economic boom. Again, not true: the economy grew slightly faster under President Clinton, and, according to Congressional Budget Office estimates, the after-tax income of a typical family, adjusted for inflation, rose more than twice as much from 1992 to 2000 as it did from 1980 to 1988. 
 But Ronald Reagan does hold a special place in the annals of tax policy, and not just as the patron saint of tax cuts. To his credit, he was more pragmatic and responsible than that; he followed his huge 1981 tax cut with two large tax increases. In fact, no peacetime president has raised taxes so much on so many people. This is not a criticism: the tale of those increases tells you a lot about what was right with President Reagan's leadership, and what's wrong with the leadership of George W. Bush.
 The first Reagan tax increase came in 1982. By then it was clear that the budget projections used to justify the 1981 tax cut were wildly optimistic. In response, Mr. Reagan agreed to a sharp rollback of corporate tax cuts, and a smaller rollback of individual income tax cuts. Over all, the 1982 tax increase undid about a third of the 1981 cut; as a share of G.D.P., the increase was substantially larger than Mr. Clinton's 1993 tax increase.
 The contrast with President Bush is obvious. President Reagan, confronted with evidence that his tax cuts were fiscally irresponsible, changed course. President Bush, confronted with similar evidence, has pushed for even more tax cuts.
 Mr. Reagan's second tax increase was also motivated by a sense of responsibility -- or at least that's the way it seemed at the time. I'm referring to the Social Security Reform Act of 1983, which followed the recommendations of a commission led by Alan Greenspan. Its key provision was an increase in the payroll tax that pays for Social Security and Medicare hospital insurance. 
 For many middle- and low-income families, this tax increase more than undid any gains from Mr. Reagan's income tax cuts. In 1980, according to Congressional Budget Office estimates, middle-income families with children paid 8.2 percent of their income in income taxes, and 9.5 percent in payroll taxes. By 1988 the income tax share was down to 6.6 percent -- but the payroll tax share was up to 11.8 percent, and the combined burden was up, not down.
 Nonetheless, there was broad bipartisan support for the payroll tax increase because it was part of a deal. The public was told that the extra revenue would be used to build up a trust fund dedicated to the preservation of Social Security benefits, securing the system's future. Thanks to the 1983 act, current projections show that under current rules, Social Security is good for at least 38 more years.
 But George W. Bush has made it clear that he intends to renege on the deal. His officials insist that the trust fund is meaningless -- which means that they don't feel bound to honor the implied contract that dedicated the revenue generated by President Reagan's payroll tax increase to paying for future Social Security benefits. Indeed, it's clear from the arithmetic that the only way to sustain President Bush's tax cuts in the long run will be with sharp cuts in both Social Security and Medicare benefits.
 I did not and do not approve of President Reagan's economic policies, which saddled the nation with trillions of dollars in debt. And as others will surely point out, some of the foreign policy shenanigans that took place on his watch, notably the Iran-contra scandal, foreshadowed the current debacle in Iraq (which, not coincidentally, involves some of the same actors).
 Still, on both foreign and domestic policy Mr. Reagan showed both some pragmatism and some sense of responsibility. These are attributes sorely lacking in the man who claims to be his political successor. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); INCOME TAX (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); FAMILY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (88%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (88%); CORPORATE TAX (87%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); POOR POPULATION (75%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (75%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (74%); BUDGET FORECASTS (74%); POLITICS (72%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (69%); MEDICARE (60%) Taxation; United States Politics and Government; Presidents and Presidency (US); United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (94%); BILL CLINTON (91%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); PAUL KRUGMAN (54%) Ronald Wilson Reagan; Paul Krugman

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2004



183 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 681 words

HEADLINE: Italy Arrests Two as Terrorist Suspects

BYLINE: By AL BAKER

DATELINE: ROME, June 8 

 BODY:
The Italian police said Tuesday that they had arrested two men suspected of being Islamic terrorists, including an Egyptian who reportedly helped plan the train bombings in Madrid on March 11. 
 The arrests, made on the outskirts of Milan, were part of a series of coordinated raids late Monday night against suspected Islamic militants in Italy, France, Belgium and Spain, the authorities said.
 Officials identified the Egyptian as Rabei Osman Sayed Ahmed, 32, whose name was given to the Italians by investigators in Spain. The police moved swiftly after Mr. Ahmed, in monitored phone conversations, spoke of an imminent attack in an undisclosed location and of fleeing Italy, officials said. 
 Arrested separately in Milan, where the police carried out six raids, was a man identified as Yahia Payumi, 23, who said he was Palestinian. He lived with Mr. Ahmed in an apartment at Via Chiasserini 16 and was also accused of being an associate of international terrorists, an Italian official said.
 In a statement on Tuesday, Italy's interior minister, Giuseppe Pisanu, said Mr. Ahmed was probably ''among the principal authors'' of the Madrid bombings, which came three days before Spanish elections that dislodged a government supportive of the American-led invasion of Iraq.
 While only the two arrests were announced, a third man was also being held, an Italian official said. 
 As part of the raids, people were picked up for questioning across Europe, including about 15 in Belgium, a federal prosecutor, Daniel Bernard, said at a news conference in Brussels, The Associated Press reported. Whether any of the 15 were suspects in the Madrid train bombings was not immediately clear. But a spokesman in the Belgian prosecutor's office said: ''There is a line with Spain, with the Madrid bombings, certainly. The man arrested in Italy had contacts in Belgium. From those contacts we could unveil some sort of structure.''
 The arrests, along with news of the imminent release of three Italian hostages in Iraq, were welcome news in Italy, which has been much criticized inside and outside its borders.
 Just Monday, European Union officials chided Italy and Greece for what they characterized as a failure to carry out antiterrorism measures in a timely way. The officials outlined a series of steps both to prevent terrorist attacks and to prepare for them and said that better international cooperation was needed.
 But officials across Italy praised the efforts of Italian law enforcement to root out terrorism. In a statement on Tuesday, Mr. Pisanu said the raids had being aimed at a ''dangerous group of terrorists close to Al Qaeda'' that had been planning further attacks. As the news broke, Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi, on his way to the United States for an economic summit meeting, called Mr. Pisanu to congratulate him.
 Some suspects in the Madrid train bombings, which killed 191 people, had long been known to European and Arab intelligence officials. The bombings raised fears that a terrorist attack in another major European city was only a matter of time.
 The Spanish Interior Ministry identified Mr. Ahmed as a suspect in April, and one report in Spain on Tuesday said he was linked to a dead Tunisian man who had been identified by investigators as the ringleader in the Madrid bombings.
 Officials in Milan said Mr. Ahmed lived in Spain before his arrival in Italy, where he worked as a house painter. Officials said that both Mr. Ahmed and Mr. Payumi attended the mosque in Milan that, after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, the United States called one of the main centers of Al Qaeda-sponsored terrorist activity in Western Europe.
 Both Mr. Ahmed and Mr. Payumi were charged with conspiracy to commit terrorism in Italy. Both could eventually be extradited to Spain. A third man was picked up for questioning, but only because he was with Mr. Payumi at the time of his arrest, said Armando Spataro, a terrorism investigator in Milan.
 No weapons were found in Mr. Ahmed's apartment, but the police recovered Islamic literature and a computer, which they are examining.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A file picture of Rabei Osman Sayed Ahmed, arrested in Milan.
 Yahia Payumi, who was also arrested by the Italian police. (Photographs by European Pressphoto Agency) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (93%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); RELIGION (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); ARRESTS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); AL-QAEDA (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); INTERROGATION OF SUSPECTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); EUROPEAN UNION (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); HOSTAGE TAKING (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (66%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (66%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (50%) Terrorism; Islam; Railroads; Bombs and Explosives; Terrorism; Palestinians

PERSON: SILVIO BERLUSCONI (58%) Rabei Osman Sayed Ahmed; Yahia Payumi; Al Baker

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (94%); ROME, ITALY (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (72%) SPAIN (99%); ITALY (95%); BELGIUM (94%); EGYPT (94%); EUROPE (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%); FRANCE (92%); GREECE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%) Italy; Milan (Italy); Spain; Madrid (Spain); Egypt

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2004



184 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: California Weighs Tighter Fuel Economy

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: DETROIT, June 8 

 BODY:
An initial draft of a California global-warming regulation would require automakers to cut the amounts of carbon dioxide and other gases linked to climate change that their new vehicles emit by as much as 30 percent over the next decade. 
 The draft is expected to be made public this week or next. People briefed on it said that the 30 percent figure could still be changed before it is released, though probably not by much. 
 If adopted, the plan would have the effect of compelling the industry to make the cars, sport utility vehicles and other vehicles it sells in California much more fuel efficient. Unlike the particles and gases that contribute to air pollution and smog, whose emissions can be reduced technologically, the gases linked to global warming are an inevitable product of fuel combustion, and no way yet exists to filter them from engine exhaust. The only way to comply with the proposed rules would be to build vehicles that burn less fuel. 
 Details of the draft proposal were described to The New York Times by environmental groups that were briefed on its contents last week. 
 The California Legislature passed the nation's first law aimed at curbing global-warming emissions from cars and light-duty trucks in 2002. The law directed the state's Air Resources Board to come up with a plan this year. The proposal will be reviewed by regulators over the summer and fall, and then be subject to review by the state Legislature next year.
 If adopted, the proposed rules would take effect at the beginning of 2006, but give automakers until the 2009 model year to start meeting the requirements. As described to environmental groups, the rules would require progressively greater reductions in average emissions, reaching 30 percent in the 2015 model year.
 Officials at the state air board declined to comment. 
 The proposal will have implications for Northeast states like New York that generally follow California's lead in setting air-quality rules. California, where smog has been an issue for decades, has the power to set alternative standards to Washington's because its regulations predated the federal Clean Air Act. 
 The new rules would set the state even further apart from the federal government on environmental regulations. Nationally, fuel economy has stagnated for the last two decades as automakers have sold more sport utilities and large pickup trucks and a smaller proportion of passenger cars. The Bush administration has moved away from regulating global-warming emissions, withdrawing the United States from an international treaty known as the Kyoto Protocol meant to curb them.
 ''It's important California leads the way, frankly, because of the lack of leadership on the federal level,'' said Assemblywoman Fran Pavley, the Democrat from the Los Angeles area who sponsored the state law.
 But California's strategy seems certain to face a legal challenge from the auto industry, and potentially from the federal government. Both may argue that the proposal is pre-empted by federal authority to set fuel-economy regulations. 
 In an interview in May, William Clay Ford Jr., chairman and chief executive of the Ford Motor Company, said, ''The issue for us is always going to be if individual states are doing their own thing, versus the federal government -- it does make our life a lot more complicated.''
 ''What will happen, of course, is that California will do its thing, and then New England will start to weigh in, New York State, and pretty soon we'll end up with a patchwork,'' he added. ''I really would like to have a national approach to this, because otherwise we and other manufacturers will have a really hard time responding.''
 Elisa Lynch, the global-warming campaign director of Bluewater Network, a San Francisco environmental group, said the plan did not go far enough. ''This is a very conservative approach as it is, and the law calls for them to go as far as they can,'' Ms. Lynch said. ''This is a minimum of what they should have done.''
 Kate Larsen, a policy associate at Environmental Defense, was more supportive. ''I think the numbers are good, and are based on real sound science,'' Ms. Larsen said. ''We think this is a good start and these reductions will be achievable.'' Based on their previously stated positions, other environmental groups are also likely to support the plan. 
 Most automakers have argued in recent years against calls for smaller increases in fuel economy rules than those that would be required to cut global-warming emissions by 30 percent. When the Bush administration imposed a 1.5 mile-a-gallon increase in standards for S.U.V.'s and other light-duty trucks, G.M. argued that the effects would be calamitous. 
 In an interview Tuesday night, Dave Barthmuss, a spokesman for G.M. in California, said, ''We are working as hard as we can to make our engines as clean and efficient as possible.'' He said he was not aware of the details of the draft plan because it had not been released.
 After years of disputes over auto regulation, California and the automakers called a truce last year, when G.M. and Chrysler dropped a lawsuit challenging the state's Zero Emission Vehicle mandate, which will require the production of millions of cars and trucks over the next 15 years that emit little or no smog-forming pollutants. 
 Though the latest measure is aimed at a different problem, some technologically advanced vehicles, like hybrid cars, can help meet both goals. The new measure will be more of a challenge for the industry than the Zero Emission Vehicle rules. 
 ''When it comes to climate change, California is aligning itself with the rest of the world,'' Alan C. Lloyd, the chairman of the state air board, said in an interview last year. ''Somewhere along the line, we would expect a lawsuit.'' 
 Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger has expressed support for the greenhouse-gas measure; on his campaign Web site, he said he would ''work to implement it and to win the expected challenges in court along the way.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VEHICLE EMISSIONS (91%); GLOBAL WARMING (91%); EMISSIONS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); AIR QUALITY (89%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); SMOG (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); AIR POLLUTION (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (75%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (74%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (71%); COMBUSTION TECHNOLOGIES (69%); PICKUP TRUCKS (64%) Air Pollution; Law and Legislation; Weather; Global Warming; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Automobiles; Carbon Dioxide

PERSON: Danny Hakim

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) California

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2004



185 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: Move Seen to Press Banks To Deal With Embassies

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY L. O'BRIEN

 BODY:
The State Department is pressing federal bank regulators to address the inability of some foreign embassies to find banking services in the United States, according to several people briefed on the matter. 
 An investigation into suspicious transactions in embassy accounts at the Riggs National Corporation has made banks wary of engaging in such business.
 While several countries are having difficulty finding a bank as Riggs shuts down a large portion of its embassy business, the State Department's move was primarily driven by the needs of Saudi Arabia, an American ally whose embassy accounts are at the center of the Riggs investigation, these people said. The investigation is focusing on accounts that may have been used to launder money or finance terrorist activities. 
 ''The State Department is very concerned that the Saudis cannot find a bank,'' said one senior regulatory official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. 
 Another regulator, who also spoke on the condition of anonymity, said that the State Department was ''gravely concerned'' about the hurdles facing the Saudis as they look for financial services in an environment in which banks are hesitant to work with a country now regarded as a high-risk client.
 At a meeting convened by the Treasury Department yesterday at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, the problems that all foreign embassies face finding banking services was a central topic. The meeting included senior regulators and people from leading banks. Several people attending said the primary goal was to educate banks about the risks involved in the embassy banking business and not to pitch Saudi Arabia as a banking client.
 Regulators have their work cut out for them. American banks are now skittish about taking on accounts from foreign countries riddled with suspect banking practices or possible links to terrorist groups, not only because of the Riggs investigation but also because of a recent $100 million fine the Federal Reserve Board imposed on Switzerland's biggest bank, UBS, for violating dollar-trading restrictions with countries subject to United States economic sanctions. 
 And the State Department's action underscores the ways in which diplomatic and law enforcement goals are sometimes at odds, especially when Saudi Arabia is involved. Saudi Arabian oil remains vital to American economic interests and the country occupies a central position on the political chessboard in the Middle East. But as the Riggs investigation shows, serious concerns remain in the law enforcement community about possible Saudi Arabian ties to the financial sponsorship of terrorism.
 A State Department spokesman declined to comment, referring questions to the Treasury Department. Saudi Arabian officials could not be reached for comment. Charles Intriago, publisher of Money Laundering Alert, a newsletter that tracks money-laundering issues, said that it was unusual for the State Department to intervene so directly with regulators on behalf of one country. Mr. Intriago's Web site, moneylaundering.com, reported on the Treasury Department meeting yesterday evening.
 William Fox, head of the Treasury Department's financial crimes enforcement network, first invited senior bank regulators and some of the country's largest banks to the meeting last week. The invitation came amidst Congressional hearings that called into question how effectively federal regulators were monitoring possible money-laundering and terrorist-financing problems.
 Senior members of the Senate Banking Committee and the House Financial Services Committee last week described the federal antimoney-laundering network as broken. 
 While Saudi Arabia was among the countries discussed at yesterday's meeting, Mr. Fox said in an interview that the meeting's main purpose was to educate banks about the risks involved in embassy banking and to clarify why a Riggs subsidiary, Riggs Bank, received a $25 million penalty last month for regulatory problems related to the Saudi Arabian accounts under scrutiny. Riggs has not been charged with any crimes.
 Two people who attended the meeting said that one purpose was to further educate banks about what regulators expect regarding the filing of suspicious activity reports involving possible money laundering or terrorist financing. Such reports, filed with Mr. Fox's agency and other regulatory agencies, are the backbones of efforts to track financial crimes. But the usefulness of the reports can be diluted if banks file them en masse without being selective about the most threatening problems. 
 Banks have recently been filing a much larger number of suspicious-activity reports in an effort to insulate themselves from regulatory accusations that they are overlooking problems within their accounts.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (94%); BANKING & FINANCE (92%); INVESTIGATIONS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); MONEY LAUNDERING (88%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (77%); TERRORISM (74%); LITIGATION (74%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (69%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (66%); ETHICS (66%) Banks and Banking; Frauds and Swindling; Shutdowns (Institutional); Ethics; Suits and Litigation; Foreign Service ; Banks and Banking

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (72%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (67%)

ORGANIZATION: State Department; Riggs National

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%); PNC (NYSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (67%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (67%)

PERSON: Timothy L O'Brien

GEOGRAPHIC: SAUDI ARABIA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); SWITZERLAND (72%) Saudi Arabia

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2004



186 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 502 words

HEADLINE: Report Says Aid to Weak States Is Inadequate

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH BECKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 8 

 BODY:
Even though the Bush administration has identified failed states for acting as breeding grounds for terrorists, it is doing very little to improve those countries and reduce the risk they pose to national security, according to a report released on Tuesday. 
 Timed to coincide with the meeting of the Group of 8 industrial nations in Sea Island, Ga., this week, the report, produced by the Commission on Weak States and U.S. National Security, warns that if the United States fails to come up with a new development strategy, it will undermine its national security.
 ''The underlying premise is we have to act now,'' said Stuart E. Eizenstat, co-chairman of the commission and the former chief domestic policy advisor for President Carter. The commission included 30 Republicans and Democrats who are experts in development and national security. 
 This is not the first effort to tie an improvement in development aid to national security threats. But since the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, the administration has moved in different directions on development aid, said the report, commissioned by the Center for Global Development, a Washington nonprofit institute.
 Rather than focus development aid on failed states, it has created a new development account to help qualified poor nations with a proven track record for fighting corruption and supporting democracy. Failed states -- those that generally cannot provide security for their citizens or their territory, and that are corrupt and illegitimate in the eyes of their citizens -- are not eligible for this aid. 
 In this year's budget, the administration has asked for an increase of more than $1 billion for H.I.V./AIDS and assistance to the poorest nations, while it has requested a $21 billion increase for the Defense Department, not including supplemental requests for military operations in Iraq. 
 That gap exemplifies the commission's fears that the administration and Congress rely too heavily on military force and not enough on development aid to fight terrorism. 
 The commission recommended that a new cabinet-level secretary of development be appointed to coordinate development efforts. 
 While saying that there should be far more attention and resources for countries on the brink of collapse, the group resisted putting a price tag on what was needed. But the report noted that the United States was one of ''the least generous of all donors in its public spending on development assistance as a proportion of the economy.'' 
 The report also reiterated several traditional development remedies, including better trade opportunities for poor nations and more debt relief.
 Over all, the report said that current aid policy is better suited to fighting the cold war than to the battle against networks of terrorists without armies or national capitals.
 ''It is the weakness of our enemies that is the threat today, not their strengths,'' said Nancy Birdsall, president of the Center for Global Development. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONAL SECURITY (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); TERRORISM (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); ARMIES (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (77%); COLD WAR (77%); TRENDS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); COMPANY STRATEGY (75%); BUDGETS (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (73%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (65%); CORRUPTION (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%) Terrorism; Foreign Aid; Third World and Developing Countries; Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (84%); CENTER FOR GLOBAL DEVELOPMENT (55%) Commission on Weak States and US National Security; Group of Eight

PERSON: JIMMY CARTER (58%) George W (Pres) Bush; Elizabeth Becker; Stuart E Eizenstat

GEOGRAPHIC: GEORGIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (79%); GEORGIA (58%) Georgia (Georgian Republic)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2004



187 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 270 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

In Baghdad, Lights Are Still a Luxury
The Fadiel family had dinner during one of Baghdads scheduled blackouts. Insurgents may be aiming at electrical and water facilities to disrupt the new government. PAGE A9.

Warning on Interest Rates
Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, said that if necessary, interest rates could be raised more sharply than expected. BUSINESS DAY, PAGE C1

Lakers Tie Pistons, 1-1
Los Angeles avoided a second loss in a row at home to Detroit in the N.B.A finals, rallying behind Kobe Bryant in the waning seconds of regulation and scoring a 99-91 victory in overtime. Game 3 is tomorrow. SPORTSWEDNESDAY, PAGE D1

Montgomery Faces Ban
Tim Montgomery, the sprinter known as the world's fastest man, and three other elite track athletes were notified of potential drug violations that could result in their being banned from the Athens Olympics. SPORTSWEDNESDAY, PAGE D1

Jockeying Over Iraq Report
Leaders of a Senate panel are pressing the C.I.A. to agree to a broad declassification and release of the panel's report, which criticizes the agency's work on Iraq. PAGE A8

Ashcroft Questioned On Torture Memos
Attorney General John Ashcroft told a Senate committee that President Bush had ''made no order that would require'' violating international treaties or domestic laws prohibiting torture. But he refused to provide several memorandums finding that the administration is not bound by those prohibitions. PAGE A8

It's the Din, Not the Dinner
Want another star? Keep the terrific food, but lose the hard rock blasting from the sound system. Frank Bruni's first review. DINING, PAGE F1


GRAPHIC: Photos (Photo by Shawn Baldwin for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POWER FAILURES (90%); OLYMPICS (76%); BASKETBALL (76%); RUNNING (75%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); TRACK & FIELD (70%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (66%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (53%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) News and News Media

ORGANIZATION: LOS ANGELES LAKERS (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); ALAN GREENSPAN (57%); KOBE BRYANT (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) IRAQ (91%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2004



188 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1151 words

HEADLINE: New Service by TiVo Will Build Bridges From Internet to the TV

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

 BODY:
The Internet, in jumping past the personal computer and into the living room television set, is starting to give viewers the possibility of bypassing traditional cable and satellite services. 
 TiVo, the maker of a popular digital video recorder, plans to announce a new set of Internet-based services today that will further blur the line between programming delivered over traditional cable and satellite channels and content from the Internet. It is just one of a growing group of large and small companies that are looking at high-speed Internet to deliver video content to the living room. 
 The new TiVo technology, which will become a standard feature in its video recorders, will allow users to download movies and music from the Internet to the hard drive on their video recorder. Although the current TiVo service allows users to watch broadcast, cable or satellite programs at any time, the new technology will make it possible for them to mix content from the Internet with those programs. 
 ''This is the fourth electronic video service, and it is an alternative to cable, satellite and broadcast television,'' said Tom Wolzien, an analyst at Bernstein Investment Research and Management. Those traditional services, Mr. Wolzien said, ''have been the monster gatekeepers, but this is a way for content providers to get past them.''
 In the new world of Internet-connected television, viewers will not have to worry about when a show is scheduled or from where it comes. 
 ''We're fully committed to developing an entertainment experience you can't get over normal broadcast television,'' said Michael Ramsay, chairman and chief executive of TiVo. ''This is what we think the future of television is.''
 A timetable for introducing the video service has not been set, nor has its price.
 TiVo sustained a big blow Tuesday when DirecTV, the satellite television provider and the biggest source of new subscribers for the TiVo service, said it had sold its entire equity stake of 3.4 million shares in TiVo. Shares of TiVo dropped more than 14 percent to close at $6.41. 
 There is some speculation in the industry that DirecTV is moving toward developing its own digital video recorder. Several analysts suggested TiVo is moving toward Internet downloading as a way to insulate itself against potential competition from DirecTV.
 Last year TiVo, which has 1.6 million subscribers who use its digital video recorder with cable or DirecTV, acquired Strangeberry, a small Silicon Valley start-up that had developed a new technology to view Internet video streams. TiVo is now developing that technology and plans to integrate it into the TiVo system next year. Video distributors like Netflix, RealNetworks and Blockbuster are also starting to explore the possibility of delivering feature-length movies via the Internet to users for viewing later.
 ''We're no longer in a world where innovation is stopped because somebody is the only game in town,'' said Rob Glaser, chief executive of RealNetworks, a Seattle-based company that now streams audio and video to computer users through the Internet. 
 The idea of downloading and storing video for conventional television viewing has until now been pioneered by a small group of technology companies like Akimbo, a maker of an Internet digital video recorder that is based in San Mateo, Calif. 
 Because most Internet connections do not yet reliably support data speeds needed to view television-quality video as it is streamed, a number of the Internet video services require that programs first be downloaded and stored on a hard drive before viewing. 
 Now, as broadband Internet becomes widely available in homes and new wireless video networks make it simpler to move video data and streams inside the home, bigger players are starting to emerge.
 For example, Microsoft demonstrated a service called IPTV at the Consumer Electronic Show in Las Vegas this year. The company believes that it is possible to deliver television to rival today's cable programming by using commonly available standard telephone lines, as part of what are called digital subscriber line, or D.S.L., services. It is running two small trials of the technology in Canada and Switzerland, and sees a broad potential. 
 ''We sort of expect that TV will shift to where everyone will watch what they want when they want,'' said Peter T. Barrett, chief technology officer for Microsoft TV.
 Microsoft executives argue that the technology would be a boon to telephone companies who are now searching for new revenue streams in the face of increasing pressure on their traditional voice-calling businesses. ''Every single phone company has to be thinking about video,'' said Lynne Elander, general manager of marketing for Microsoft TV.
 But executives at telephone companies said they were not moving quickly to deploy the Microsoft technology. 
 Both Verizon and SBC are engaged in trials and deployment of fiber optic networks, which offer significantly higher speeds than existing D.S.L. services. ''The jury is still out on IPTV, we have to see how it works,'' said Eric Rabe, a spokesman for Verizon.
 Smaller firms, however, are not waiting for competition to grow in this field. On Monday, Broadband Networks Inc., a start-up based in Los Gatos, Calif., introduced a service it called TimeshiftTV. The new service, using a $299 digital video recorder, will initially focus on offering video programs in eight foreign languages when it is available in December. 
 Broadband's chief executive, Bob Burke, said the company would try to license its technology to other companies. 
 The main challenge facing Internet video distribution is that streaming DVD and HDTV-quality video will require data rates above 5 megabits a second. That is far beyond most D.S.L. network speeds today, which generally range from 300 kilobits to 1.5 megabits.
 Indeed, even downloading and storing high-definition video for later viewing at most D.S.L. speeds may not be economical. Sending the data stored on a DVD disk over the Internet at those speeds might take several days, making it a poor competitor for ''sneaker-net'' services like Blockbuster, which require the viewer to walk or drive to the store.
 But for standard video quality, the economics may already work, according to a recent Bernstein Research report. It costs just 15 cents an hour to stream standard video across a D.S.L. connection, Mr. Wolzien said, and those costs are falling.
 Whether Internet delivery of programming will be a serious threat in the near future to traditional broadcasters remains a matter for debate among industry executives. In any event, they also expect to capitalize on the new technology. As Steve Burke, president of Comcast Cable, the nation's largest cable operator, said recently in a phone interview, ''We're big believers that the Internet is the future.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Michael Ramsay, the chairman and chief executive of TiVo. A new feature will allow users to download movies from the Internet. (Photo by Sherry Tesler for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 TiVo has 1.6 million subscribers who use its digital recorder with cable or DirecTV to view TV programming. (Photo by Bloomberg News)(pg. C4)Graph tracks TiVo subscribers, measured in millions, for fiscal years ended January since 2001. (pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIGITAL RECORDERS (91%); SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (90%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (90%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (89%); CD & DVD DRIVES (89%); INTERNET VIDEO (89%); FILM (89%); INTERNET AUDIO (78%); VIDEO INDUSTRY (78%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (78%); STREAMING MEDIA (78%); SUBSCRIPTION TELEVISION (78%); INTERNET CONTENT PROVIDERS (78%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (77%); BROADBAND (77%); MOVIE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (72%); MUSIC (69%); STARTUPS (66%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (66%); EXECUTIVES (66%); RECORD INDUSTRY (62%) Computers and the Internet; Motion Pictures; Music; Recordings (Video); Recordings (Audio); Recording Equipment; Television; Satellites; Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: NETFLIX INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Tivo Inc

TICKER: NFLX (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (58%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (58%)

PERSON: John Markoff; Michael Ramsay

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2004



189 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; HOCKEY; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 808 words

HEADLINE: Stanley Cup Is in Florida, And the N.H.L. Is in Flux

BYLINE: By JOE LAPOINTE

 BODY:
As if they have not seen enough of each other the past two weeks, Martin St. Louis of Tampa Bay and Jarome Iginla of Calgary will face off again tomorrow night in another N.H.L. competition.
 St. Louis of the Stanley Cup champion Lightning and Iginla of the runner-up Flames are two of the three finalists for the Hart Memorial Trophy as the league's most valuable player. The Hart and the other major awards will be presented during a televised ceremony in Toronto. 
 The other candidate for the Hart is Devils goalie Martin Brodeur, who has not played since the first round of the playoffs. But St. Louis and Iginla finished a grueling championship series on Monday night when the Lightning defeated the Flames, 2-1, in Game 7 of the finals.
 The series offered evidence for both boosters and critics of the National Hockey League, which will hold its draft this month as it prepares for discussions about rules changes and negotiations for a new collective bargaining agreement.
 Those who support the sport can argue that a skilled team won this season's championship over one that preferred to dish out physical punishment; that two finalists with rosters relatively modest in payroll can thrive even in a high-spending era; and that the winning franchise, born 12 years ago in expansion, has spread the sport's popularity and validated the N.H.L.'s ambitious reach into the Sun Belt.
 Those who find fault with hockey's current state can argue that the games -- especially Game 7 -- were low in goals, shots and good scoring chances, a trend that hurts entertainment value; that low television ratings showed how hockey had overestimated its appeal to new audiences while drifting away from its core supporters; and that the success of two frugal finalists is an aberration that disguises serious flaws in the sport's economic structure.
 None of the debates, however, can diminish the effort and the achievement of the players, who trekked back and forth across the continent four times as they wore each other down.
 A lasting image -- perhaps the symbolic face of the series -- was that of St. Louis, weary and bearded, with blood streaming down between his glazed eyes in the final minute. Boarded and cut by Andrew Ference of the Flames, St. Louis was merely the last of several Tampa Bay players to suffer head injuries from the intimidating Flames.
 ''We are winners,'' St. Louis said. ''We're going to walk together forever. Nothing can describe how it feels to be the last team standing.''
 With 24 points in the playoffs, including four goals in the finals, St. Louis finished second in playoff scoring. First was Brad Richards, his Tampa Bay teammate, who had 12 goals among his 26 points and won the Conn Smythe Trophy as the most valuable player in the postseason.
 Iginla finished third in playoff scoring with 22 points. Although he led all players with 13 goals, Iginla had no points in the final two games. Part of the reason was the checking of defensemen Pavel Kubina and Darryl Sydor.
 ''It's hard to believe,'' Iginla said in the quiet dressing room Monday as music and shrieks of celebration echoed from down the corridor. ''It's the worst feeling in sport.''
 Ruslan Fedotenko scored both goals for Tampa Bay. The winner was set up by Vincent Lecavalier, who created the play with brilliant stick handling in the left-wing corner that drew three Flames toward him and created open space in front of goalie Miikka Kiprusoff.
 Although Lecavalier had no goals and three assists in the series, he was a focal figure. In Game 2, he set up a Fedotenko goal with a spin move and pass off the back of the net that will decorate the short highlight reel of great plays from the series.
 In the same game, he dropped Chris Simon, one of Calgary's toughest players, with an elbow when Simon tried to run him along the boards. In Game 3, Lecavalier fought Iginla in a rare bout between players of this caliber in such an important game.
 In Game 4, Lecavalier was cut in the head by a check into the boards from Ville Nieminen, who was suspended for one game. After two relatively unproductive games, Lecavalier was one of Tampa Bay's best players in Game 7.
 But in Monday's game, there were only 17 shots for Calgary and 15 for Tampa Bay. A total of 27 goals were scored by both teams in seven games. The general managers and owners will consider rules changes this summer to increase offense, including moving back the nets, reducing the size of goalie pads and forbidding goalies to steer and clear the puck when away from their nets.
 For Dave Andreychuk, Tampa Bay's 40-year-old captain, it was the first Cup in a 22-year career and it might come in the last N.H.L. game he will play or anyone will see for a long time. He will savor it. 
 ''It is a moment that has gone through my head lots of times,'' Andreychuk said. ''Finally, it happened.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: There was elation in Florida as Tampa Bay goalie Nikolai Khabibulin and his Lightning teammates won the franchise's first Stanley Cup. (Photo by European Pressphoto Agency)
 A Calgary fan took his logo and went home for the summer. (Photo by Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ICE HOCKEY (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); ATHLETES (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); TRENDS (77%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (75%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (67%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (64%); HEAD INJURIES (60%); EVIDENCE (53%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (52%) Hockey, Ice; Stanley Cup ; Awards, Decorations and Honors; Playoff Games

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (94%); TAMPA BAY LIGHTNING (93%); CALGARY FLAMES (91%); NEW JERSEY DEVILS (57%); DALLAS STARS (56%); EDMONTON OILERS (56%) Calgary Flames; Tampa Bay Lightning

PERSON: Joe Lapointe

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (94%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); ALBERTA, CANADA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2004



190 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 839 words

HEADLINE: Project Aims for More Bustle in a Former Egg Capital

BYLINE: By JOHN McCLOUD

DATELINE: PETALUMA, Calif. 

 BODY:
This former poultry town in the Sonoma Valley, 30 miles north of San Francisco, is unusual in that its downtown bustles on weekends and holidays but tends to be quiet at other times, because most of the jobs have moved to outlying areas. 
 But a local developer, Basin Street Properties, has set out to change that pattern with a project that is the largest in the city's history.
 The $100 million endeavor, which entered its third phase last month, is adding 86,000 square feet of retail space, 70,000 square feet of offices, a 12-screen theater, a 530-space parking garage and 226 apartments to the city's historic downtown.
 ''I've built 22 projects throughout Sonoma and Napa Counties, and they've taken up to seven years to get approval,'' said Basin Street's president, Matt White. ''This project is very large for a town of 56,000, yet it was approved unanimously in six months.'' 
 Mr. White says the lack of opposition stems from his company's decision to build the project without public financing. ''We are paying for everything, including a parking garage that will be available for public parking,'' Mr. White said.
 The city is spending $7 million on infrastructure improvements, however, including a promenade along the Petaluma River.
 Known as the Theater District, the project encompasses seven underused blocks of the 30-block city center. It involves both new construction and reuse of historic buildings dating to the period when the city promoted itself as ''the world's egg basket.''
 From the 1880's through the 1940's, Petaluma was the largest supplier of eggs in California and one of the largest in the world, according to the Petaluma Historical Society. At its peak in the 1930's, some 41 million eggs were produced annually in the city. It even had the country's only pharmacy devoted exclusively to poultry diseases.
 The peeps you hear today, however, are less likely to come from baby chicks than from the cellphones and equipment manufactured in local business parks by companies like Nokia, Advanced Fibre Communications and Alcatel.
 Over the last decade, the city and its neighbors along a 30-mile stretch of Highway 101 have been transformed into a high-tech hub commonly known as Telecom Valley. The area employs nearly 7,000 people in the telecommunications industry, according to the Center for Research and Economic Analysis at Sonoma State University in Rohnert Park, Calif. Before an industry meltdown in 2001, the figure topped 12,000.
 Downtown Petaluma, which was placed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1995, survived the transition from agriculture to high technology in reasonably good physical shape. Its traditional small-town feel made it a popular backdrop for movies like ''Peggy Sue Got Married'' and ''American Graffiti,'' and helped turn it into a regional antiques center. 
 Nevertheless, most businesses serving local customers moved to outlying shopping centers. As a result, downtown is largely quiet except on weekends and holidays.
 Basin Street hopes to change that pattern by adding office and residential uses and bringing in more restaurants and service-oriented retailers.
 ''Petaluma has plenty of antique dealers, but it's woefully under-retailed for everyday shopping,'' Mr. White explained. ''We're trying to lure people from the shopping centers, and to do that we need your standard regional and national retailers.''
 The new buildings, which constitute about 90 percent of the project, are faced in brick and designed to fit in with the surrounding architecture. None are taller than three stories.
 In the development's first two phases, completed in 2002 and 2003, two historic buildings were converted into 58,000 square feet of retail space and 20,000 square feet of offices. The current phase includes 25,000 square feet of ground-floor commercial space below 43 apartments on two floors.
 The parking garage and cinema, to be operated by Cinema West, a Northern California chain with 11 theaters, are scheduled to open in December. Another office building and apartment complex are set for completion next year. The final element, a 45,000-square-foot retail center with a public plaza, is expected to be ready in 2006.
 Though the project is only half finished, Mr. White already deems it a success. Eighty percent of the existing commercial space and half of the unbuilt office space is leased.
 The average rate of $2.70 a square foot per month is about 30 percent above the going market rate, according to Orion Partners Ltd., a real estate brokerage firm in nearby San Rafael. Of the completed apartments, 17 are leased, with monthly rents from $1,500 for a studio to $2,700 for two bedrooms.
 In the meantime, Mr. White said, his company is looking for additional development opportunities in downtown Petaluma as well as in nearby cities.
 ''There's a big demand, especially among high-tech employees, for a kind of urban lifestyle,'' he said. ''This gives people the best of both worlds. They're in the suburbs, but they get a bit of an urban feel.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The building at left, facing the riverfront in Petaluma, Calif., is part of a project intended to bring new life to the city's downtown. (Photo by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); POULTRY (90%); HISTORY (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (86%); CITIES (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (77%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (76%); HISTORIC SITES (76%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); APPROVALS (73%); RETAILERS (70%); MOVIE THEATERS (70%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (68%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (65%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (60%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%); FIBER OPTICS (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (60%); THEATER (57%) Geographic Profiles; Area Planning and Renewal; Retail Stores and Trade; Motion Pictures; Office Buildings and Commercial Properties; Housing; Parking Garages and Lots

ORGANIZATION: Basin Street Properties

PERSON: John Mccloud

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Petaluma (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2004



191 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 434 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Military Contract Employee Is Shot Dead in Saudi Capital

BYLINE: By NEIL MacFARQUHAR

DATELINE: CAIRO, June 8 

 BODY:
An employee of an American contractor was shot dead on Tuesday in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia's capital, the latest in a string of killings through which Al Qaeda or its sympathizers seem determined to try to drive foreigners from the kingdom.
 The victim, Robert C. Jacobs, 62, of Murphysboro, Ill., worked for Vinnell Corporation, a military contractor based in Fairfax, Va., company officials said. 
 He was found shot dead in his apartment by another employee who came to visit, said Jay McCaffrey, a spokesman for the company. 
 Mr. Jacobs had worked for Vinnell for seven years, mostly in Saudi Arabia, said a company official, Janis Lamar. He trained the Saudi National Guard for several years, Mr. McCaffrey said.
 Vinnell is a subsidiary of Northrop Grumman Corporation.
 Although Vinnell maintains a heavily guarded compound for its employees, the victim had chosen not to live there, Mr. McCaffrey said.
 The Riyadh police are looking for three gunmen, said to be in a gold Lexus, according to a report on Al Arabiya satellite television network. The victim was shot nine times, the network said.
 Last week, gunmen fired on two Vinnell employees, slightly wounding one of them. The company lost seven employees in May 2003, when 35 people, including 9 suicide bombers, died in coordinated attacks against three housing compounds in Riyadh.
 Al Qaeda or groups inspired by it have vowed to drive all foreigners from Saudi Arabia, where Islam was born, hoping in the process to wreck the economy and bring down the House of Saud. 
 Saudi Arabia relies on some six million foreign laborers, but a vast majority are Asians doing menial labor. Some 35,000 Americans and 30,000 Britons constitute the largest Western work force, most employed in oil or finance.
 Militants have killed some 28 foreigners and several Saudis since May 1, most of the deaths coming in an attack on a residential compound and office buildings in the oil center of Khobar on May 29. Riyadh itself has also been plagued with a series of incidents.
 On Sunday, an Irish cameraman working for the BBC, Simon Cumbers, 36, was shot dead while filming in a poor Riyadh neighborhood known for its sympathy with the militants. A BBC correspondent, Frank Gardiner, who was wounded in the same attack, remained in critical but stable condition on Tuesday.
 A German chef working for the national airline was found shot dead at an ATM machine in the capital on May 22.
 The United States Embassy has warned that all American citizens should leave the kingdom, and the British Embassy has suggested that Britons avoid all but essential travel there. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (92%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); LABOR FORCE (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (76%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (73%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (72%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (69%); FOREIGN LABOR (69%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (67%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (67%); AIRLINES (50%); RELIGION (50%) Murders and Attempted Murders; United States International Relations

COMPANY: VINNELL CORP (72%); NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (70%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (84%) Vinnell Corp

TICKER: NOC (NYSE) (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (72%); SIC7376 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (72%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (70%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (70%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (70%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (70%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (70%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (70%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (70%)

PERSON: Robert C Jacobs; Neil Macfarquhar

GEOGRAPHIC: RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (94%) VIRGINIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%); SAUDI ARABIA (96%) Saudi Arabia; Riyadh (Saudi Arabia)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2004



192 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1276 words

HEADLINE: In Mexico, Sugar vs. U.S. Corn Syrup

BYLINE: By ELISABETH MALKIN

DATELINE: ZACATEPEC, Mexico 

 BODY:
Along the sooty gangways and rickety catwalks of the Emiliano Zapata sugar mill, sweat-soaked workers operate presses, vats and ovens in a process that has changed little since the mill's first harvest in 1938. 
 From a distance, the mill's chimney sprouts from the cane fields of this verdant part of central Mexico, where sugar has been cultivated since the time of the conquistadors.
 Bankrupt twice since 1990 and now run by the government, the mill trucks in 7,000 tons of machete-cut cane a day from the surrounding fields. For the 5,000 growers who sell to the mill, its existence is their only hope of a livelihood.
 ''We go on just the same as we were 50 years ago,'' said the mill's general superintendent, Luis Armando Hernandez, bemoaning the creaky equipment and the high price of cane. 
 The mill, its union workers and the impoverished growers are the face of an industry at the center of a trade dispute between Mexico and the United States that has ended up in the World Trade Organization. 
 What is nominally at issue is a 20 percent Mexican tax on soft drinks made with high-fructose corn syrup imposed in January 2002. The tax was a response, legislators and government officials say, to the United States' unwillingness to accept imports of the Mexican sugar that were displaced in Mexico by cheaper American corn syrup. 
 ''The purpose was to level the playing field,'' said Carlos Blackaller, a legislator from the opposition Institutional Revolutionary Party and president of the National Union of Cane Growers. 
 The tax has halted corn syrup imports from the United States and has helped restore the five million-ton-a-year sugar industry, which supports up to three million Mexicans. 
 ''If the U.S. wants to send fructose to Mexico, then it needs to give access to Mexican sugar,'' said Juan Cortina Gallardo, chief executive of Grupo Azucarero Mexico, which owns and operates four mills. 
 Behind the dispute is the determination of both Mexico and the United States, even under the North American Free Trade Agreement, to continue protecting their industries. 
 Industry representatives from both countries have been looking for a compromise since October that would allow some corn syrup into Mexico and open the American market to surplus sugar. 
 ''Thanks to the tax, they are sitting at the negotiating table,'' Jose O. Menchaca, president of the National Chamber of the Sugar and Alcohol Industries, Mexico's sugar industry association, said of American growers and refiners. ''Without the tax, they would not even answer the telephone.'' 
 Under the deal, which would have to be approved by both governments, Mexico would scrap the tax, and the United States would withdraw the case it filed in March with the World Trade Organization.
 In addition, two American producers of corn syrup -- Corn Products International and Archer Daniels Midland -- would stop any litigation against the Mexican government. The next round of talks is planned for June 22 in New York.
 Both sides are looking ahead to 2008, when Nafta envisions free trade in all sweeteners, an event American sugar producers want to head off in advance. 
 ''Chaos would stem from that,'' said Jack Roney, director of economics and policy analysis for the American Sugar Alliance, the main industry group. 
 In a truly free market, Mexico's soft drink bottlers would import two million tons of corn syrup, he said, displacing that amount of sugar, which Mexico could then sell to the United States. Mexico would rather sell its surplus sugar to the United States, where the guaranteed price is as much as three times the world market price. 
 ''That would collapse the U.S. market and destroy the sugar price,'' Mr. Roney said. 
 The Mexicans, for their part, want to avoid being swamped with corn syrup. 
 ''There's enough space in Mexico for U.S. high-fructose and enough space in the U.S. for Mexican sugar,'' Mr. Cortina said, ''but it needs to be managed so that there are no excesses.''
 An agreement would unwind a dispute that goes back to Nafta's beginnings, when the United States and Mexico dickered over how fast to open the American market to surplus Mexican sugar before 2008. Each country's legislators wound up approving different calculations. 
 So when Mexico began to run surpluses in 1996, the United States, pointing to its version, blocked duty-free sugar imports.
 Mexico asked for a dispute resolution panel under Nafta, but the United States never named its judges, said Hugo Perez Cano, a legal adviser to Mexico's economy ministry. 
 ''In our view, it's a double violation of Nafta,'' he said. ''One is the lack of access to sugar, and the other is that the United States won't allow a panel to resolve it.''
 Mexico tried imposing antidumping tariffs on fructose, but these were thrown out by the World Trade Organization. The soda drink tax was the next alternative. 
 ''It has given the industry a break, but it is not an optimum solution,'' Mr. Perez Cano said. ''Nobody benefits from unilateral solutions.'' 
 The dispute reflects a larger issue about the world trade in sugar, one of the most policy-distorted of all commodities, according to the World Bank.
 Governments everywhere use subsidies, artificial prices, inventories and tariffs to support their industries. No government will be the first to end protection because cheap sugar from the open world market would swamp its industry. 
 Mexicans point to American subsidies that make corn syrup so cheap and import controls and inventory management practices that keep prices high for American sugar producers. 
 In Mexico, sugar's political power grows out of its social importance. Some 155,000 cane growers, who each farm an average of 9 or 10 acres, sell cane to about 60 mills. The farmers are organized in two associations linked to the P.R.I., the Institutional Revolutionary Party, which ruled Mexico for 71 years until 2000. 
 The government sets the price the mills must pay growers. By world standards, the price is high to ensure peace in the countryside, but the farmers' plots are too small to lift them out of poverty. The growers who supply the Emiliano Zapata mill earn about $1,400 to $1,600 a year, estimates Gerardo Collado Aguilar, the mill's field superintendent.
 Yet Mexican farmers are so poor that cane is their best assurance of a steady income. 
 ''Whoever grows cane knows that he will earn,'' said Quintin Silva, standing in the middle of his family's five-and-a-half-acre plot. 
 The harvest is almost finished, and as Mr. Silva talks, cane cutters advance across the fields, their machetes ringing against the stalks. 
 The cutters' faces are blackened by the cane, which must be burned before it can be cut. The pay is about $2.50 for every ton they harvest. A good cutter can gather as much as seven tons a day.
 Mexico protects its own sugar -- and, by extension, jobs -- with high tariffs. The government has also stepped in to ensure that all the country's mills continue to operate.
 Three years ago, President Vicente Fox's government expropriated 27 mills, about half of an industry that was buckling under multiple pressures. Prices had fallen as corn syrup imports grew and some mill owners illegally dumped sugar on the domestic market. The owners had borrowed heavily to pay growers, and by 2000, the industry owed the government $3 billion.
 Under government management and protected by the soft drink tax, the sugar industry has returned to health. 
 ''Without expropriation, many of the mills would have shut down,'' said Mr. Blackaller of the cane growers' union. ''The effect of the tax has been a stable market for sugar and better price for our cane.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A sugar cane cutter, like this one near Zacatepec, Mexico, can cut as much as seven tons a day, at $2.50 a ton. (Photo by Adriana Zehbrauskas for The New York Times)(pg. W1)
 The Emiliano Zapata sugar mill in Zacatepec, Mexico, produces 1,500 tons of refined sugar a day. (Photo by Adriana Zehbrauskas for The New York Times)(pg. W7)Map of Mexico highlighting Zacatepec: The Emiliano Zapata sugar mill is 50 miles south of Mexico City. (pg. W1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); SUGAR FARMING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); SUGAR MFG (89%); SUGAR CANE FARMING (89%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (87%); IMPORT TRADE (87%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); WET CORN & VEGETABLE MILLING (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); PROTECTIONISM (72%); TRADE DISPUTES (72%); POLITICS (69%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (67%); SOFT DRINKS (66%); APPROVALS (65%); EXECUTIVES (64%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (62%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%) Corn Syrup and Sweeteners; International Trade and World Market; Taxation; Soft Drinks; Sugar; Fructose Syrup; North American Free Trade Agreement; Corn Syrup and Sweeteners; Protectionism (Trade)

COMPANY: GRUPO AZUCARERO MEXICO SA DE CV (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (59%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%) Grupo Azucarero Mexico

INDUSTRY: NAICS311314 CANE SUGAR MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2062 CANE SUGAR REFINING (58%)

PERSON: Elisabeth Malkin; Juan Cortina Gallardo

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%) MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH AMERICA (94%) Mexico

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2004



193 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1150 words

HEADLINE: Got Oil? Now, Try to Find Tankers to Carry It

BYLINE: By HEATHER TIMMONS

DATELINE: LONDON, June 8 

 BODY:
Now that OPEC has agreed to raise its crude oil production quotas in hopes of taming high and jittery oil prices, industry experts are growing more concerned about both the capacity and the security of oil tankers, the next link in the supply chain. 
 The world's tanker fleet is already stretched thin by robust demand for oil, by looming deadlines for the phase-out of single-hull tankers for safety and environmental reasons, and by lengthening backlogs at the shipyards where new tankers are built. It is far from clear, experts say, whether the existing fleet can handle the new production that Saudi Arabia and others have promised in coming months. 
 ''There is just barely enough shipping capacity at these high production levels,'' said Jeffrey Goetz, head of marine projects and consulting at Poten & Partners, a New York-based energy and ocean transport broker. 
 Charter rates for tankers, which can be even more volatile than oil prices, have been driven up in recent weeks by the tight market. Shipping costs may now add $3 a barrel to the price of oil delivered to the United States from the Middle East, up from about $2 earlier this year, analysts said. 
 Rates are likely to rise even further if Saudi Arabia steps up its production as much as Saudi officials say it could -- by 1 million barrels a day, to about 10 million. Experts say much of that new oil may back up in storage tanks in Saudi Arabia waiting for scarce tanker space. 
 Tanker security is also a growing issue. Tankers and tanker-loading facilities have already been the targets of attacks by Al Qaeda and other anti-Western groups, threatening to disrupt oil supplies and adding to the upward pressure on prices, maritime insurance premiums and tanker charter rates. 
 Complicating the picture, new security regulations are scheduled to take effect July 1 for all sizable commercial vessels ships calling at American ports. Among other measures, the new rules require ship operators to make their engine rooms more secure and to demand identification from anyone who comes on board a tanker. Most major tanker owners will probably be in compliance in time, shipping experts say, but some smaller operators may not make the deadline. If enforcement of the new rules leaves some tankers excluded from delivering to the United States, it may aggravate the scarcity. 
 ''At no other time in history have all these factors gone in one way, to make the market this tight,'' said Dragos Rauta, technical director of Intertanko, a trade association for tanker owners. 
 Some experts say that an oil tanker makes an attractive target. ''It ticks all the terrorists' boxes by attracting publicity and raising economic concerns,'' said James Wilkes, a director of Gray Page, a London security consultant for the shipping industry. 
 In October 2002, a small boat filled with explosives came up next to the French tanker Limburg off Yemen and detonated, blowing a hole in the hull. Almost 100,000 barrels of crude oil spilled out and burned. The attack, which killed a member of the Limburg's crew as well as whoever was on the small boat, was attributed to Al Qaeda. 
 The attack on the Limburg did not produce the kind of spectacular explosion conjured by popular imagination, and shipping industry experts said it would be extremely difficult for an attacker to get a tanker to blow up that way; even direct missile hits during the Iran-Iraq war generally resulted only in spills and containable fires. 
 But an attack or accident that crippled even one big oil tanker could have an appreciable effect on the flow of crude, experts say, and the new security regulations do nothing to address a Limburg-style attack. ''In the United States, there are 13 million registered pleasure boats alone,'' Mr. Rauta of Intertanko said. ''Unfortunately, the security legislation has limitations in the practical sense.'' 
 Though there are more than 3,600 tankers in service in the world, about a third of the world's oil supply is transported by just 435 of them, the towering 2-million-barrel tankers known prosaically in the industry as very large crude carriers, or V.L.C.C.'s. These ships are almost always completely booked, and new ones are slow to reach the market. The shipyards that can build them all have deep backlogs of orders for tankers and other vessels, so a new V.L.C.C. ordered today would probably not be delivered until late 2007 or early 2008 at the soonest. 
 Tankers of the next largest size, known as Suez Max tankers because they barely fit through the Suez Canal, are also booked close to capacity. 
 ''Going into the fourth quarter, we could see a shortage of tankers'' if oil production rises by the forecast two million barrels a day worldwide, said Magnus Fyhr, a Houston-based shipping analyst at Jefferies & Company. 
 Shippers may be forced to use smaller ships, or keep older single-hull tankers in service longer than planned. After the 1989 Exxon Valdez disaster in Alaska and several major spills in European waters in the 1990's, both the European Union and the United States adopted rules calling for tankers with single-walled hulls to be phased out in favor of a double-hull wall with about six feet of air space in between, making the oil storage tanks much less likely to be punctured in an accident. 
 Fleet operators have been actively scrapping older single-hull ships as new double-hulls become available, but even so, about a third of large-scale oil deliveries worldwide this year will still be made by single-hulled vessels, and the looming shortage of tanker capacity may lead operators to extend their service lives. 
 ''The single-hulled tanker is like the fat lady at the dance,'' said Frank Gallagher, director of Galbraith's, a ship brokerage and consulting firm based in London. When plenty of ships are available, most customers prefer to charter a double-hulled ship, Mr. Gallagher said, but when ships are scarce, as they are now, customers are more willing to settle for a single hull. 
 Provided, that is, that single-hulled tankers are still allowed to dock at the desired ports: some countries and ports have already banned them outright. The International Maritime Organization in London decided in December to move up the deadline schedule for the switchover to double hulls, with nearly all single-hulled tankers to be retired by 2010. 
 Two recent accidents in the Suez Canal highlighted the reason for the change, Mr. Gallagher said. In both cases, double-hulled vessels ran aground, doing some damage to their outer hulls and delaying delivery of their cargoes but not causing larger problems. Had they been single-hulled tankers, he said, there would have been crude oil spills, and the canal would have been closed to clean up the mess. 
 ''If you go anywhere crowded with single-hulled ships,'' Mr. Gallagher said, ''they can be dangerous.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A marine, left, stood watch last week as a tanker loaded Iraqi oil at an offshore terminal. In October 2002, a small boat filled with explosives came up next to the French tanker Limburg, below, off Yemen and detonated, blowing a hole in the hull. Almost 100,000 barrels of oil spilled out. (Photographs by Associated Press)(pg. C1)
 United States Marines guard the Khawr al-Amaya oil terminal in southern Iraq, scene of an April attack. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. C14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (91%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); MARINE TANKERS (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); BULK SHIPPING (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (90%); MARINE SHIPPING (89%); TERRORISM (86%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (85%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); MARINE VESSELS (77%); SHIPBUILDING (77%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); OCEAN MARINE INSURANCE (68%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (68%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (68%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (68%); AL-QAEDA (63%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Tankers; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); International Trade and World Market; Production; Security and Warning Systems; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

COMPANY: POTEN & PARTNERS INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (91%); UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS (59%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8731 COMMERCIAL PHYSICAL & BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH (56%)

PERSON: Heather Timmons

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) SAUDI ARABIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); IRAQ (92%) Saudi Arabia; Middle East

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2004



194 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1154 words

HEADLINE: Chinese Builder's Death Reveals Anonymous Web of Risky Labor

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN and COREY KILGANNON

 BODY:
Yong Fa Cai did not know the man's name. He did not know what kind of construction experience the man had, either in New York or in his native Shanghai. All Mr. Cai knew was that the man had called his cellphone a few days ago, expressing interest in Mr. Cai's project to build a two-family house at 51-18 92nd Street in Elmhurst, Queens.
 But the call was enough to get him the job. 
 On Monday, though, just days after the man started to work, an eight-foot-tall concrete wall at the construction site suddenly crumbled, killing him and injuring two others. And now, the man's death is helping to expose an informal but little-understood world in which construction workers from China rely heavily on anonymous calls, personal references and help-wanted ads to secure dangerous work.
 Tossing in another element of mystery, the authorities said yesterday that they still did not have any clue to the man's identity. The only official hints, based on an autopsy performed by the medical examiner's office, were that he appeared to be in his mid-30's, and that he was short and slight, at least by Western standards.
 New York's leading Chinese-language newspaper, The World Journal, speculated yesterday that the dead man ''may have a surname of Shen.''
 Officials with the city's Department of Buildings and the federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration said yesterday that they were working earnestly to figure out what happened. The Queens district attorney's office said that it was continuing to look into the accident, too, as well as the possibility of criminal charges.
 Mr. Cai -- who was cited by city officials for building code violations on Monday -- said that he knew next to nothing about the dead man.
 ''I'm very sorry that I don't know anything,'' he said in a brief telephone interview in Mandarin Chinese. ''He just called my cellphone. If I knew more, I would tell you.''
 The accident follows one two weeks ago in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, in which Angel Segovia, a 37-year-old immigrant from Ecuador, was killed when an illegally built balcony roof collapsed beneath him.
 Monday's collapse came amid calls by law enforcement officials to vigorously pursue cases in which building code violations lead to injury, especially those involving illegal immigrants who may be reluctant to blame their bosses.
 And it came at a time when the number of demolition projects and building permits issued around the city have been increasing at an impressive clip, reflecting a rebounding economy. As such, some officials are worried that contractors may be all too tempted to hire even more day laborers at low wages, without benefits and with few safety precautions.
 ''It's a huge concern around here,'' said City Councilman John C. Liu of Queens, whose district includes many Asian residents. ''There is plenty of worker exploitation, and the city should monitor work sites more closely. Here you had a hardworking immigrant pay the price, and it's not an isolated incident.''
 It is not uncommon to see many contractors begin their day, Mr. Liu said, by heading to certain street corners in Flushing that teem with Asian day laborers eager to work. The same dynamic applies to Hispanic day laborers who congregate in countless spots across the metropolitan region.
 But what is becoming more common, as well, is the kind of transaction that Monday's accident in Elmhurst helped to illustrate, said Peter Kwong, a professor at Hunter College who has written extensively about Chinese immigration.
 In this world, many construction workers are recent arrivals, mostly men, from well-established immigration launching pads in China like Fuzhou, Wenzhou, Shanghai and Guangdong Province. Many live with friends or relatives in overcrowded apartments in Chinatown, Flushing or Sunset Park. They are also generally older than their Latin American counterparts, with many in their 30's, 40's or 50's.
 Some have had considerable experience in construction projects in China, even though the standards and materials may be different. Many simply need to read the newspaper or make a quick call to get temporary work.
 ''They have a lot of experience because from a young age, they do this kind of work,'' said Zhen Guang Huang, who operates the Wenzhou Repair Company, which is one of dozens listed in the classifieds of The World Journal. And compared with workers from elsewhere, Mr. Huang said, ''their brains are more agile.''
 Certainly Chinese construction workers have been quite busy in recent months in Elmhurst. 
 According to local residents, many Asian contractors have been aggressively buying older homes to either subdivide into many small rooms, or to replace with larger homes. Those plans often include demolition, which jumped by 27 percent citywide in 2003, according to a report released last week by the Rent Guidelines Board. But demolition can be a dangerous task when performed by unskilled laborers working with few safety precautions.
 ''The builders tear down houses and build new ones to pack a lot of people into,'' said Irwin Wanto, a retired electrician. ''These crews of Asian workers in the neighborhood, they never have harnesses or even hard hats.''
 After the chaos of Monday, the scene of the accident, on the corner of 92nd Street and 52nd Avenue, was surreally quiet yesterday. There were no flowers, no words of tribute to the dead man.
 But on the 10-foot-tall plywood wall encircling the site, a notice of violation explained that the work on a three-story, two-family house had been stopped for ''failure to provide protection at the sides of the excavation'' and ''no sheeting, shoring or bracing at the eight foot deep excavation at the north lot line.''
 And for several hours yesterday, inspectors from OSHA were busy looking at the site, and reviewing documents and materials related to Mr. Cai and his company, USA Heng Tai Inc.
 A few blocks away, meanwhile, at two separate sites, Chinese construction workers were hammering and drilling away to erect multifamily homes. Few who were interviewed said that they had heard about Monday's accident -- let alone the news yesterday from Elmhurst Hospital Center that one injured worker, Yu Jin Wu, had been released, while another, surnamed Chen, remained hospitalized in stable condition.
 But some said that they were from China -- or to be specific, Changle, a bustling city in Fujian Province that is best known as the hometown of most of the 286 Chinese who were smuggled aboard the Golden Venture, which ran aground off Queens in 1993. 
 One worker, who identified himself in Mandarin only by his last name, Lin, said that the crew had been on the job for only a couple of weeks. All had gotten their jobs through word of mouth. Some said that they had had construction experience in China. But Mr. Lin said that their work was not exactly top notch.
 ''They're very slow,'' he said. ''In China, the workers do a much better job.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: An inspector from the Occupational Safety and Health Administration surveyed the Elmhurst site where a worker was killed on Monday. (Photo by Shannon Stapleton for The New York Times)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (89%); BUILDING & HOUSING CODES (89%); IMMIGRATION (86%); CITY GOVERNMENT (86%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (77%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (75%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (75%); DEATHS (74%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (74%); AUTOPSIES (74%); BUILDING PERMITS (73%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (71%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); CORONERS COURTS & OFFICES (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (67%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (65%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (64%); CITIES (64%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (63%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (63%); REFUGEES (62%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (60%) Building (Construction); Accidents and Safety; Immigration and Refugees; Labor; Industrial and Occupational Hazards; Illegal Aliens; Building (Construction)

ORGANIZATION: OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY & HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (82%)

PERSON: David W Chen; Corey Kilgannon; Yong Fa Cai

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%) EAST CHINA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (92%) New York City; China

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2004



195 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Classified; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 296 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
SUSSMAN, ALBERT

 BODY:
 SUSSMAN -- Albert. Died peacefully at home on June 8, 2004 after a long illness. Predeceased by his loving wife, Phyllis. Beloved father and grandfather of Bernard (Katherine), Daniel (Jill), Phyllis (Zachary), Rachel and Melanie. 
Executive VicePresident Emeritus, International Council of Shopping Centers. Funeral services on June 10 at 10 AM, Plaza Jewish Community Chapel, Amsterdam Ave and 91st Street.
SUSSMAN--Albert. The 48,000 worldwide members of the International Council of Shopping Centers (ICSC), its Board of Trustees and officers salute the life and accomplishments of Albert Sussman, the association's first executive vice president. Al Sussman joined ICSC in 1958 and his career spanned 28 years. When he joined the association as its first employee there were only 75 members and the shopping center industry was in its infancy. Today the 46,000 shopping centers in the United States alone account for $1.98 trillion in retail sales. The importance to the economy of the modern shopping center, the growth of professionalism in the retail real estate sector, and the respect ICSC has earned globally are very much a product of Al Sussman's efforts. We mourn his passing and are grateful for his life.
SUSSMAN--Albert. We have lost a beloved cousin and dear friend. He filled our lives with love, humor and warmth; with a devotion to study and learning; and with his enormous pride in his family and his heritage. He leaves to us and to the world a wonderful legacy of caring and generous children and grandchildren. He always gave to us ''that best portion of a good man's life--his little, nameless, unremembered acts of kindness and of love.'' We will miss him always. Charlotte Schluger Neil & Leona Schluger Olga & Philip Prince James & Rosemary Schluger 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); RETAILERS (92%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); GRANDPARENTS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); RETAIL SALES (72%); JEWS & JUDAISM (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF SHOPPING CENTERS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2004



196 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Sports of The Times; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 866 words

HEADLINE: Newark Should Step Back From Dance With Devils

BYLINE: By HARVEY ARATON

 BODY:
THE hockey season ended Monday night, and no one can say if and when another will begin, certainly not the cheerleaders in Newark who are desperate to invest $210 million in the future of a niche sport that is skating on thin entrepreneurial ice.
 ''The owners are looking forward to a strike and getting the salaries into line with the teams' earnings,'' Richard Monteilh, Newark's business administrator, said in a recent telephone interview. ''The game works as long as players make what they bring in.'' 
 This, apparently, is a rationale for the current stampede by Newark and its crusading mayor, Sharpe James, to foot roughly two-thirds of the bill and build a downtown arena primarily for the Devils, who in the best of Stanley Cup times have lost tens of millions in the northern New Jersey market. 
 Next questions: What if the owners crack first in the anticipated labor strife and fail to achieve their goal of a hard salary cap? What if an extended shutdown erodes an already modest fan base and television viewing audience? What if -- and, granted, this is a doomsday scenario -- Newark succeeds in pinning its downtown redevelopment on a hockey team that goes out of business before the Rangers again make the playoffs?
 It is a risk, however small, that no practical civic planner would take. Ralph Nader, please report to the nearest soapbox to explain why this Newark arena is the most outlandish of all our bloated metropolitan-area sports-complex proposals. 
 At a news conference in Manhattan late last month, Nader assailed plans for a West Side stadium for the Jets and a Brooklyn palace for the Nets, but he made no mention of the arena proposal just across the Hudson. Poor neglected Newark. It can't even draw the attention of America's most rabid consumer watchdog, when he's barking for president, sinking his teeth into corporate and political impropriety everywhere.
 In the interests of disclosure, I happen to be a resident of the same Essex County that includes Newark, but not one who reflexively opposes all public sports expenditures. Frankly, the Brooklyn arena intrigues me, and I didn't think the Newark project was such a terrible idea until Bruce C. Ratner bought the Nets and James forged ahead in pursuit of a one-sport arena that has become less about pragmatism, more about pride.
 ''It's the Freddy Krueger of sports-arena projects,'' said Manuel Lavin, an activist from the Ironbound community in Newark's East Ward. ''It's Sharpe James's pyramid, his legacy. The mayor sees it as a way of Newark saying, 'We're as good as anyone else.'
 ''But if you build an arena, you better be sure there's going to be someone to play there. I'm not against development, or even anti-arena, but you say it's going to be viable without basketball and just hockey. I say, 'You want me to trust you, show me your record.' It's not very good.''
 What Newark has to show for its last sports venture is a charming little baseball stadium that was pitched to eager city officials and nostalgic journalists by Rick Cerone, the former Yankee catcher and a New Jersey native. In 1997, Lavin organized a nonbinding referendum attempting to stop funding for the stadium. The referendum was defeated, the stadium was built. Ignored, in the end, were the questions of local interest and competing suburban enterprises saturating the market.
 Cerone has since cut and run, and the independent Newark Bears now play to mostly empty seats. Lost was an opportunity to build a modest-sized soccer stadium that could have housed, among others, the MetroStars and brought 10,000 to 20,000 people into Newark, spring through fall.
 ''You could see the baseball disaster coming,'' Lavin said.
 This time, it is a Newark councilman-at-large, Luis Quintana, who has collected signatures seeking a referendum the city has resisted; a New Jersey Superior Court judge upheld the city's position yesterday. James's people say time is of the essence, because of rising interest rates. He says the opposition is mostly limited to East Ward residents angered by recent property tax increases. James's critics say he builds his support base by exploiting racial tensions.
 Talk and especially double-talk are cheap in these calculated pursuits of the moral high ground. In New York, there are currently noisy campaigns for and against the Nets and Jets projects, including one from the Madison Square Garden philanthropists, the heavily tax-subsidized Dolans, who don't want West Side competition and have the nerve to argue that public funds should be spent on education.
 Windbags notwithstanding, whatever happens in Manhattan and Brooklyn, those boroughs will survive. A city as fragile as Newark cannot afford to stumble over a personal legacy at the expense of financial prudence. It cannot begin to do business with a sport in such disarray, one with a recently gutted national television contract and one that appears headed for a labor nuclear winter.
 How many suburbanites might go to a hockey game in Newark? How many of the city's residents could name a Devil other than Satan? Good questions to ask, but first, Newark should figure out how to sell baseball while hockey determines how to save itself. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); ICE HOCKEY (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); TOURNAMENTS (75%); CITIES (74%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (74%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (71%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); CITY LIFE (69%); CONSUMER LAW (64%) Hockey, Ice; Sports of the Times (Times Column); Finances; Stadiums and Arenas

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY DEVILS (93%); NEW YORK RANGERS (55%) New Jersey Devils

PERSON: RALPH NADER (79%) Harvey Araton

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%) Newark (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2004



197 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 835 words

HEADLINE: Chief Warns Of Rapid Rise In Rates if Fed Sees the Need

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve, signaled the financial markets yesterday to prepare for a sharper rise in interest rates in the months ahead if inflation turns out to be a more serious problem than the Fed's policy makers now expect.
 Mr. Greenspan warned investors not to count on the ''measured'' increases in short-term rates that the Fed described as its preferred strategy in a communique issued after its most recent monetary policy meeting, in early May.
 That view was based on a judgment, which the Fed chairman said he still held, that inflation was not likely to become a significant problem. 
 ''Should that judgment prove misplaced, however,'' Mr. Greenspan said in a speech delivered by satellite videoconference to a gathering of bankers in London, then he and his central bank colleagues are ''prepared to do what is required to fulfill our obligations to achieve the maintenance of price stability.''
 The bond market reacted initially to Mr. Greenspan's remarks by selling Treasury securities. In doing so, traders briefly pushed the rate on long-term Treasury bonds to 4.81 percent from 4.76 percent. By the end of the day, however, the yield on the 10-year Treasury bond had settled back to its earlier level, helping to give the stock market a modest lift. 
 ''The speech invited speculation that the Fed could raise rates more aggressively,'' said Robert DiClemente, chief domestic economist for Citigroup Global Markets. ''But Mr. Greenspan also said that the intention at the moment is to move in a measured way.''
 In his remarks, Mr. Greenspan seemed to be sending the markets a message of reassurance that the Fed has not relaxed its customary anti-inflationary vigilance. In recent months, many people on Wall Street have expressed varying levels of concern that the Fed was being too complacent about the threat of inflation and was at risk of falling behind the curve in keeping inflation under control. Mr. Greenspan offered an assessment of the economy similar to the one that Donald Kohn, a Fed governor, presented in a speech last Friday. But he added some nuances. Both men argued that inflation pressures were still relatively mild; Mr. Greenspan warned -- a bit more explicitly than Mr. Kohn -- that this assessment could turn out to be wrong.
 ''Cost pressures have been relatively subdued,'' he said. ''Nonetheless, the persistence of the rise in energy prices is a worrisome element in the cost picture.''
 That ''worrisome element,'' -- along with other concerns Mr. Greenspan cited about rising wages outstripping productivity gains and a ''recent acceleration of core consumer prices'' -- puts the bond market on alert, said Albert Wojnilower, a senior economic adviser for Craig Drill Capital.
 The markets have been conditioned to expect gradual, quarter-point rate increases spaced out over many months, starting with an initial move when the Fed's policy makers meet for a two-day session on June 29 and 30. ''Now that conditioning is being withdrawn,'' Mr. Wojnilower said.
 But analysts are still expecting no more than a quarter-point increase at the end of June in the federal funds rate, which regulates the cost of short-term loans between banks and other financial institutions. Those loans, in turn, influence interest rates for car loans, mortgages and other consumer and commercial borrowing. The Fed has kept the funds rate at a 46-year low of 1 percent for nearly a year, managing to help pull the nation out of a weak recovery from the last recession.
 The recovery began to gather steam last summer and the deflationary pressures that once worried Mr. Greenspan are ''now presumably safely behind us,'' he said yesterday. 
 For the first time in several years, companies are able to make price increases stick, Mr. Greenspan noted. That pricing power is evident in fatter profits as well as in the modest takeoff in consumer prices over the past year.
 As a result of rising compensation, Mr. Greenspan said, unit labor costs are also beginning to rise. But instead of raising prices to accommodate these costs, he said, companies will absorb them and profits will shrink. 
 ''Fears of losing market share should dissuade businesses from passing these high costs fully through to prices,'' he argued. That reluctance to lose market share ''should cap the rise in profit margins and ultimately return them to more normal levels.'' 
 The biggest uncertainty in this analysis is energy prices. ''Higher oil prices, if they persist, are likely to boost core consumer prices, as well as the total price level, in this country,'' Mr. Greenspan warned. 
 Still, the Fed chairman held to the view that prices would remain reasonably stable in the weeks and months ahead. Answering questions from the bankers, he said, according to Reuters and other news services, that ''so far, we have no reason to believe we will not be able to maintain a measured pace in the elimination of what we presume to be at this stage an unnecessary degree of accommodation.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Alan Greenspan, the Fed chief, said a ''measured'' approach was likely but not guaranteed. (Photo by Getty Images)(pg. C9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BONDS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); INFLATION (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); PRODUCTIVITY (67%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (54%) United States Economy; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Interest Rates; Credit; United States Economy

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (93%) Louis Uchitelle; Alan (Chmn) Greenspan

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (56%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2004



198 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 969 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-12

Unanimous Vote at U.N. For Iraq Resolution
The Security Council voted in favor of an American and British resolution to end the formal occupation of Iraq on June 30 and transfer ''full sovereignty'' to an interim Iraqi government. The resolution authorized an American-led multinational force to be part of a ''security partnership'' with Iraqi forces. A1

President Bush, in Georgia for a three-day meeting of the Group of 8 leaders, welcomed the adoption of the resolution. A3

A crisis for the new Iraqi government loomed as Kurdish leaders threatened to withdraw from the Iraqi state unless they received guarantees against Shiite plans to limit Kurdish self-rule. A1

The leaders of the Senate intelligence committee are pressing the C.I.A. to agree to a declassification and release of the panel's report, which is critical of the agency's prewar performance on Iraq. A8

Car bombings in two cities killed at least 11 Iraqis, and an American soldier and six soldiers from three other countries were killed while trying to defuse mines, officials said. A9

A power plant south of Baghdad was shut down last weekend by coordinated attacks on fuel and transmission lines, American and Iraqi government officials said. A9

American Killed in Saudi Capital
An employee of an American military contractor was shot dead in Riyadh, the latest in a series of killings aimed against foreigners. A11

Two Terror Arrests in Italy
The Italian police said they had arrested two men suspected of being terrorists, including an Egyptian who reportedly helped plan the train bombings in Madrid on March 11. A11

New Setback for Sharon
Two senior members of a far-right party quit Prime Minister Ariel Sharon's government following a cabinet vote approving in principle a Gaza Strip withdrawal plan. A11

NATIONAL A14-21

Crowds Come Out in Force To Pay Tribute to Reagan
As many as 100,000 visitors sought to file past the coffin of former president Ronald Reagan at the rotunda of his library in California, forcing officials to extend the planned viewing hours to 10 p.m. from 6 p.m. A1

On the way to pay his respects to Mr. Reagan, Senator John Kerry criticized President Bush for marginalizing Democrats and recalled his own role in Mr. Reagan's history. A20

Mr. Reagan's death has set off debates among Republicans about honoring him on the nation's currency or coins. The Ronald Reagan Legacy Project has focused on the $10 bill because Alexander Hamilton, who now occupies it, was not a president. A20

Boston Bracing for Convention
The transit authority of Boston said it would begin random inspections of the bags of passengers on subway and commuter trains as the Democratic Convention nears. A14

Felons' Voting Rights Debated
Some county elections supervisors in Florida worry that a new list of suspected felons might be flawed, and that a new state law makes it too easy to disqualify valid voters. A16

Kin of Bomb Victims Testify
Two people who lost relatives in the Oklahoma City bombing testified on behalf of Terry Nichols, as closing arguments ended in the penalty phase of his state murder trial. A16

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Venus Aligns With Earth and Sun
Millions of people across the world watched as the orbits of Earth, Venus and the Sun were aligned along the same plane for the first time in more than a century. A19

New Evidence of Water on Mars
The Mars rover Spirit dug up more evidence of water on the planet, NASA scientists said. A19

NEW YORK/REGION B1-10

Impeachment Hearings Begin in Connecticut
The legislative committee investigating whether to recommend the impeachment of Gov. John G. Rowland began taking testimony in public hearings, the first such proceeding involving a sitting United States governor in 16 years. A1

Rally for Higher Wages
Thousands of teachers, police officers and firefighters packed several blocks of Broadway near City Hall Park in a demonstration of their demands for raises and new labor contracts. B4

Robber Flees Red-Handed
A man robbed a Manhattan bank, escaped with an undisclosed amount of cash and then ran into a busy subway station, where a dye pack in his bag of money exploded, sending out a cloud of red smoke and stinging the eyes of morning commuters, the police said. B1

New Script for Emergency Drill
An emergency drill conducted at the Indian Point nuclear power plant involved a simulated terror attack and the participation of the F.B.I. B1

EDUCATION B9

DINING OUT F1-14

ARTS E1-8

OBITUARIES C15

SPORTSWEDNESDAY D1-6

Lakers Tie Series, 1-1
Los Angeles beat the Detroit Pistons, 99-91, in overtime in Game 2 of the N.B.A. championship finals. D1

BUSINESS DAY C1-14

Plan Would Cut Car Emissions
An initial draft of a California global warming regulation would require automakers to cut emissions of carbon dioxide and other gases linked to climate change by as much as 30 percent over the next decade. C1

Warning on Interest Rates
Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve, signaled the financial markets to prepare for a sharper rise in interest rates in future months if inflation turns out to be a more serious problem. C1

Clear Channel to Pay Fines
Clear Channel Communications agreed to pay the F.C.C. more than $1.7 million in penalties to settle a series of indecency complaints made against its stations. C1

Pressure on Bank Regulators
The State Department is pressing federal bank regulators to address the inability of some foreign embassies to find banking services in the United States. C14

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A22-23

Editorials: The roots of Abu Ghraib; shushing the big city; sneaky moves on tobacco; Serge Schmemann on a Russian emigre who finally gets his Russian passport.

Columns: Nicholas D. Kristof, William Safire.

Crossword E2
TV Listings E8
Public Lives B2
Weather D7

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); TERRORISM (87%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); ARMED FORCES (76%); INSPECTIONS (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (72%); FELONIES (69%); TRAINS (68%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (66%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (57%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (79%); MADRID, SPAIN (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); SPAIN (79%); EGYPT (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2004



199 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 349 words

HEADLINE: State but Not City Will Close On Friday to Honor Reagan

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

DATELINE: ALBANY, June 8 

 BODY:
To honor Ronald Reagan, Gov. George E. Pataki plans to shut down New York State government on Friday for what he called ''a statewide day of prayer and remembrance.''
 But Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, who, like Governor Pataki, will be attending Mr. Reagan's funeral on Friday, said he would not follow suit. 
 ''City government will remain open on Friday due to the complications that would be created by closing schools and interrupting other fundamental and depended-on services unique to municipal government,'' his press secretary, Edward Skyler, said in a statement.
 Mr. Pataki's action follows the lead of the federal government and some other states. The memorial will force some budding drivers to reschedule their road tests, require people calling for unemployment benefits to call back later or make their claims over the Internet, and leave state offices a day back on their paperwork.
 All nonessential state workers will be given the day off with pay. Essential workers and workers who were already scheduled to take Friday off will be given a day of compensatory time to take off later. The state comptroller's office said the state's workforce cost taxpayers $43.7 million a day. 
 The State Legislature, which is scheduled to end its session on June 22 and is more than two months late passing the budget, will be closed as well, officials said. 
 State and city courts will be closed except for arraignments and emergencies. Jurors summoned for jury duty Friday should not report.
 Governor Pataki said in a statement that he was closing down the government ''so that we in New York can respectfully remember President Reagan and what his presidency meant for our state.''
 The last time New York State government was shut down to honor the death of an elected official was during the administration of Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller. He closed state government for a day twice, after the assassinations of President John F. Kennedy and Senator Robert Kennedy, and he shut it down for half a day after the deaths of Presidents Dwight D. Eisenhower, Harry S. Truman and Lyndon B. Johnson. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); COMPENSATORY TIME OFF (73%); LABOR FORCE (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (73%); BUDGETS (71%); JURY TRIALS (69%); JURY DUTY (64%) 

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (93%); JOHN F KENNEDY (76%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (73%) Ronald Wilson Reagan; Michael Cooper; George E (Gov) Pataki

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State; New York City

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2004



200 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 883 words

HEADLINE: 8 Leaders Welcome U.N. Backing for Iraq Transition

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: SEA ISLAND, Ga., June 8 

 BODY:
Surrounded by world leaders who sounded eager to put their bitter divisions on Iraq behind them, President Bush on Tuesday welcomed the adoption of a Security Council resolution on Iraq and said the nation was solidly on the road to democracy.
 ''The vote today in the United Nations Security Council was a great victory for the Iraqi people,'' Mr. Bush said as he sat with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia at this seaside resort off the Georgia coast, which has been sealed off for summit talks that began here Tuesday night. ''The international community showed that it stands side by side with the Iraqi people.'' 
 But Mr. Putin, who clashed with Mr. Bush on Iraq in the weeks before the American-led invasion of the country, also warned, ''It will take quite a long time before this adoption of the document will have any impact on the real change on the ground in Iraq.''
 The vote came as the leaders of Britain, France, Germany, Japan, Italy and Canada joined Mr. Bush and Mr. Putin here for three days of meetings, dominated by discussion of how to limit the spread of nuclear weapons technology and encourage Middle Eastern nations to do more to embrace democracy and economic development. American officials and foreign diplomats said the leaders were preparing to approve a one-year moratorium on the sale of sensitive technology to produce nuclear fuel to any nation that does not already possess that capability. 
 They are also preparing to announce formation of a ''Forum for the Future'' in the Middle East, intended to promote democracy there. Several Middle Eastern nations will be represented here, though the leaders of Egypt and Saudi Arabia, both of whom have been resisting Mr. Bush's call for democratic change, are not attending.
 The unanimous Security Council vote on Iraq was a substantial diplomatic victory for Mr. Bush after months in which intensified violence and a rise in American casualties prompted criticism that the White House had badly underestimated the difficulty of pacifying Iraq. The action by the Council also provided a boost to Mr. Bush's re-election campaign at a time when voters are increasingly uneasy about his handling of Iraq and are divided over whether American troops should remain there. His presumptive opponent, Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts, has been calling for greater international participation in stabilizing Iraq, and Mr. Bush's aides are clearly hoping that the resolution will take the sting out of Mr. Kerry's charge that Mr. Bush has squandered important alliances.
 The timing of the vote could not have been better for Mr. Bush. With the other world leaders gathering here, it offered a tableau of solidarity with diplomatic and political benefits for the White House.
 By authorizing the presence of a multinational force in Iraq, it puts the Council on record approving what until now has been largely an American and British occupation, and gives the United Nations a stake in a successful outcome.
 So it was no surprise that as news of the vote spread among the leaders as they arrived here on a muggy evening, the results were expressions of support and relief, both from leaders who stood by Mr. Bush in Iraq, including Prime Ministers Tony Blair of Britain and Silvio Berlusconi of Italy, and from those who opposed him, including President Jacques Chirac of France and Chancellor Gerhard Schroder of Germany. 
 A meeting on Tuesday between Mr. Bush and Mr. Schroder was described by a senior administration official as ''the warmest meeting the two leaders have had since 2003,'' before they split over the invasion, and he said the two men discussed a possible NATO role in training Iraqi forces. Mr. Schroder has vowed that German troops would never go to Iraq. Mr. Bush, the official said, assured him that ''the United States understands that.''
 Mr. Blair, clearly relieved to have the United Nations vote behind him, said it showed the world ''speaking with one voice'' in support of transferring sovereignty back to the Iraqis at the end of this month and holding elections next year. ''We all now want to put the divisions of the past behind us and unite behind the vision of a modern democratic and stable Iraq that can be a force for good, not just for Iraqis but for the whole region and thus the whole world,'' he said after arriving here. ''There will be difficult and dangerous days in the coming weeks and months but there should be no doubt about what it is that we want to be happening in Iraq or our collective determination to bring it about.''
 Mr. Putin said, ''If, prior to this document, it was primarily the burden and responsibility which was upheld by the United States with regard to this country,'' it is now the Iraqi people who will be responsible for their own fate, ''with a major influence now to be exercised by the entire world community.''
 With much of the rest of the world now backing a framework for nursing Iraq toward elections, the administration plans to step up its efforts to encourage democracy and economic development in the Middle East.
 On Wednesday, Mr. Bush will meet here with Iraq's new interim president, Sheik Ghazi Ajil al-Yawar, and a delegation of Arab leaders to urge them to do more to encourage democracy as a way of addressing forces that breed conflict.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Chancellor Gerhard Schroder at the wheel of an electric car in Sea Island, Ga., where he held what were described at amiable talks with President Bush as they and other leaders gathered for summit talks. (Photo by Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (77%); APPROVALS (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); IRAQ WAR (73%); TRENDS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); TERRORISM (61%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Economic Conditions and Trends; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (59%) United Nations; Group of Eight

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); JOHN KERRY (79%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (79%); GERHARD SCHRODER (71%) George W (Pres) Bush; Gerhard (Chancellor) Schroder; Vladimir V (Pres) Putin; David E Sanger; Richard W Stevenson

GEOGRAPHIC: GEORGIA, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); JAPAN (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (79%); EGYPT (79%); FRANCE (70%) Iraq; Germany; Russia; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2004

 
